---

title: Systems and methods for identifying users in media content based on poselets and neural networks
abstract: Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can receive a first image including a representation of a first user. A second image including a representation of a second user can be received. A first set of poselets associated with the first user can be detected in the first image. A second set of poselets associated with the second user can be detected in the second image. The first image including the first set of poselets can be inputted into a first instance of a neural network to generate a first multi-dimensional vector. The second image including the second set of poselets can be inputted into a second instance of the neural network to generate a second multi-dimensional vector. A first distance metric between the first multi-dimensional vector and the second multi-dimensional vector can be determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514390&OS=09514390&RS=09514390
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09514390
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141217
---
The present technology relates to the field of media content processing. More particularly the present technology relates to techniques for identifying users in media content based on poselets and neural networks.

Today people often utilize computing devices or systems for a wide variety of purposes. Users can use their computing devices to for example interact with one another create content share information and access information. In some instances a user of a computing device can utilize a camera or other image sensor of the computing device or system to capture or record media content such as images and or videos.

In some cases under conventional approaches media content such as images can be analyzed in attempt to identify users represented or included in the images. For example facial recognition technology can be utilized to determine an identity of a user captured in an image. However if faces of users in media content are not clearly captured or represented then conventional facial recognition techniques may not be capable of accurately identifying those users in the media content. As such in some cases conventional approaches can be inefficient and ineffective. Due to these and other reasons conventional approaches can create challenges for or reduce the overall user experience associated with utilizing computing devices or systems to interact and engage with media content.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can include systems methods and non transitory computer readable media configured to receive a first image including a representation of a first user. A second image including a representation of a second user can be received. A first set of poselets associated with the first user can be detected in the first image. A second set of poselets associated with the second user can be detected in the second image. The first image including the first set of poselets can be inputted into a first instance of a neural network to generate a first multi dimensional vector. The second image including the second set of poselets can be inputted into a second instance of the neural network to generate a second multi dimensional vector. A first distance metric between the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector can be determined.

In an embodiment a third image including a representation of a third user can be received. A third set of poselets associated with the third user can be detected in the third image. The third image including the third set of poselets can be inputted into a third instance of the neural network to generate a third multi dimensional vector. A second distance metric between the first multi dimensional vector and the third multi dimensional vector can be determined. The neural network can be modified to cause the first distance metric to be lesser than the second distance metric.

In an embodiment the first image can correspond to a query image. The second image can correspond to a positive image. The third image can correspond to a negative image. The first image the second image and the third image can be included in a set of training images. The first user and the second user can correspond to a same user. The third user can be different from the first user and the second user.

In an embodiment the modifying of the neural network can include modifying one or more weights associated with the neural network via one or more neural network back propagation processes.

In an embodiment the modifying of the neural network to cause the first distance metric to be lesser than the second distance metric can be based on minimizing a loss metric. The loss metric can be determined by calculating a maximum value between zero and 1 the second distance metric the first distance metric .

In an embodiment the first distance metric can correspond to a first Euclidean distance between the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector. The second distance metric can correspond to a second Euclidean distance between the first multi dimensional vector and the third multi dimensional vector.

In an embodiment it can be determined that the first distance metric is less than a specified distance threshold. It can be indicated that the first user and the second user correspond to a same user.

In an embodiment the first set of poselets and the second set of poselets can be included within a set of defined poselets.

In an embodiment the set of defined poselets can be associated with at least one of a body portion a combination of multiple body portions a front facial portion a side facial portion a head portion a hair portion a wearable article portion a perspective or a pose.

In an embodiment each of the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector can be associated with 256 dimensions.

It should be appreciated that many other features applications embodiments and or variations of the disclosed technology will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description. Additional and or alternative implementations of the structures systems non transitory computer readable media and methods described herein can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology.

The figures depict various embodiments of the disclosed technology for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology described herein.

People use computing devices or systems for a wide variety of purposes. Computing devices can provide different kinds of functionality. Users can utilize their computing devices to produce information access information and share information. In some cases computing devices can include or correspond to cameras capable of capturing or recording media content such as images or videos.

In some instances media content can include or represent one or more persons. For example a media content item such as an image can include a visual representation of a user such as when the image includes the user s face. Conventional approaches to media content processing can utilize facial recognition techniques to identify or verify a user s identity based on a representation of the user s face included in media content. However in some cases conventional approaches such as facial recognition techniques require a high quality or otherwise suitable image of the user s face in order to produce an accurate identification or verification of the user. In one example when a user has turned his or her head such that the user s face is not facing forward in a captured image the identity of the user may not be accurately identified using conventional approaches. In another example under conventional approaches the user s identity may not be accurately identified when the user s face appears to be far away and or blurry in the image.

As such conventional approaches can be inefficient uninteresting and ineffective. Therefore an improved approach can be beneficial for addressing or alleviating various concerns associated with conventional approaches. The disclosed technology facilitates identifying users in media content based on poselets and neural networks. The disclosed technology can analyze multiple images where each image includes a person also referred to as a user and can determine whether the person in each image is the same or not. In some cases the disclosed technology can utilize users clothes hairstyles glasses etc. to identify and distinguish between users. In some cases even if users are not facing the camera have blurred faces or are far away from the camera etc. the disclosed technology can still attempt to identify and distinguish between users.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can receive a first image including a representation of a first user. A second image including a representation of a second user can be received. A first set of poselets associated with the first user can be detected in the first image. A second set of poselets associated with the second user can be detected in the second image. The first image including the first set of poselets can be inputted into a first instance of a neural network to generate a first multi dimensional vector. The second image including the second set of poselets can be inputted into a second instance of the neural network to generate a second multi dimensional vector. A first distance metric between the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector can be determined. It is contemplated that there can be many variations and or other possibilities.

In some embodiments the poselet based user identification module can be implemented in part or in whole as software hardware or any combination thereof. In general a module as discussed herein can be associated with software hardware or any combination thereof. In some implementations one or more functions tasks and or operations of modules can be carried out or performed by software routines software processes hardware and or any combination thereof. In some cases the poselet based user identification module can be implemented in part or in whole as software running on one or more computing devices or systems such as on a user or client computing device. For example the poselet based user identification module can be implemented as or within an application e.g. app a program or an applet etc. running on a user computing device or a client computing system. In another example the poselet based user identification module can be implemented using one or more computing devices or systems that include one or more servers such as network servers or cloud servers. In some instances the poselet based user identification module can in part or in whole be implemented within or configured to operate in conjunction with a social networking system or service such as the social networking system of . It should be understood that there can be many variations or other possibilities.

The media content module can be configured to receive or acquire a first image or other media content including a representation of a first user. The media content module can be configured to receive a second image including a representation of a second user. In some cases the first image can include a visual or graphical representation of the first user s face arm body leg and or other body portion. In some instances the first image can include a visual or graphical representation of the first user s hairstyle clothes and or accessories etc. Similarly in some cases the second image can include a visual or graphical representation of the second user s face body portion hairstyle clothes and or accessories etc.

In some embodiments the media content module can communicate and or operate with the at least one data store to receive or acquire the first and second images. The at least one data store can be configured to store and maintain various types of data including but not limited to the first and second images. In some implementations the at least one data store can store information associated with the social networking system e.g. the social networking system of . The information associated with the social networking system can include data about users social connections social interactions locations geo fenced areas maps places events groups posts communications content account settings privacy settings a social graph and various other types of data. In some implementations the at least one data store can store information associated with users such as user identifiers user information user specified settings content produced by users and various other types of user data. As shown in the example system the poselet based user identification module can be configured to communicate and or operate with the at least one data store .

Moreover the poselet module can be configured to facilitate detecting in the first image a first set of poselets associated with the first user. The poselet module can be further configured to facilitate detecting in the second image a second set of poselets associated with the second user. The poselet module will be discussed in more detail below with reference to .

The neural network module can be configured to facilitate inputting the first image including the first set of poselets into a first instance of a neural network to generate a first multi dimensional vector. The neural network module can also be configured to facilitate inputting the second image including the second set of poselets into a second instance of the neural network to generate a second multi dimensional vector. More details regarding the neural network module will be provided below with reference to .

Moreover the distance metric module can be configured to facilitate determining a first distance metric between the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector. In some embodiments the first distance metric can correspond to a Euclidean distance between the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector. For example the Euclidean distance between a first vector Vand a second vector Vcan be equal to V V . In some implementations the distance metric module can be configured to receive or acquire a plurality of vectors as input and calculate a distance metric such as a Euclidean distance for each pair of vectors in the plurality of vectors. It should be understood that many variations are possible.

Furthermore in some embodiments a third image including a representation of a third user can be received by the media content module . A third set of poselets associated with the third user can be detected by the poselet module . The third image including the third set of poselets can be inputted by the neural network module into a third instance of the neural network to generate a third multi dimensional vector. The distance metric module can determine a second distance metric between the first multi dimensional vector and the third multi dimensional vector. The neural network module can modify the neural network to cause the first distance metric to be lesser than the second distance metric. Again it should be appreciated that many variations are possible.

As discussed above the example poselet module can facilitate detecting in the first image a first set of poselets associated with the first user as well as detecting in the second image a second set of poselets associated with the second user. The poselet determination module can be utilized at least in part to determine identify and or detect the first set of poselets as well as the second set of poselets. In general a poselet can refer to a body part or body portion of a person i.e. user that is included incorporated and or represented in an image. A poselet can include a part or portion of a user s pose or body configuration that is included in the image as a visual or graphical representation. Each poselet can for example capture incorporate and or represent a salient pattern associated with a particular pose of a user from a particular perspective or viewpoint. In some instances poselets can correspond to parts or portions that are tightly clustered in an appearance space and a configuration space. The configuration space of an articulated body can be parameterized represented and or described by three dimensional coordinates of one or more joints of the body. The appearance space can be parameterized represented and or described by pixel values in a two dimensional space. In some embodiments poselets can provide a robust distributed representation of a user from which characteristics attributes properties and or other information about the user can be determined or inferred without explicitly localizing various body parts of the user.

In some implementations the poselet determination module can be configured to analyze one or more images such as the first second and or third images received or acquired by the media content module of . The poselet determination module can analyze the images to determine whether or not certain poselets are present activated and or triggered in a particular image. In some cases there can be a set of defined poselets. In some instances the first set of poselets and the second set of poselets can be included within the set of defined poselets. The set of defined poselets can be associated with at least one of a body portion a combination of multiple body portions a front facial portion a side facial portion a head portion a hair portion a wearable article portion a perspective or a pose etc. In one example the set of defined poselets can include 150 various kinds or types of poselets such as a frontal head poselet a frontal shoulder poselet and a profile head poselet an arm poselet etc. It is contemplated that there are numerous variations and other possibilities. Various embodiments can utilize at least in part the detected poselets of users within images to identify and or distinguish between the users.

In some implementations each image can be associated with a respective poselet bank library or storage element and each poselet within an image can be represented using a respective array of values stored in the image s respective poselet bank. In one example each array can include 256 values for representing or describing a corresponding poselet. It is understood that other suitable quantities of values can be utilized and that many variations are possible.

In some embodiments the absent poselet indication module can be configured to indicate which poselets are absent missing non activated etc. within the images. In one example if a user in an image has turned his or her face away from the camera when the image was captured then the frontal head poselet can be absent whereas the profile head poselet can be present. As such in this example the absent poselet indication module can indicate via a 257th binary value in the array for the frontal head poselet that the frontal head poselet is absent. In some cases the indication that a particular poselet is absent can be utilized to distinguish the particular absent poselet from another poselet such as a poselet represented entirely by black colored pixels. Moreover in some implementations since there can be 150 various kinds or types of poselets the number of poselets that are activated or present for a particular image can be limited or sparse relative to the total spectrum of poselets e.g. 150 types of poselets .

As discussed previously a first set of poselets associated with a first user can be detected in a first image and a second set of poselets associated with a second user can be detected in a second image. The input module can be configured to facilitate inputting the first image including the first set of poselets into a first instance of a neural network. The input module can also be configured to facilitate inputting the second image including the second set of poselets into a second instance of the neural network. In general a neural network can refer to a computational model used to determine calculate and or approximate one or more functions that can depend on various inputs and that can be generally unknown. Neural networks can in some cases be represented as systems of interconnected nodes or elements which can be referred to as neurons . Neural networks can be configured to facilitate determining calculating computing and or approximating etc. one or more values from one or more inputs. Neural networks can be adaptive and thus can be configured to perform machine learning and pattern recognition. In some embodiments the neural network can correspond to a convolutional neural network. In general a convolutional neural network can refer to a feed forward artificial neural network in which individual neurons are tiled or configured such that the neurons respond to overlapping regions in a visual field. Convolutional neural networks can be utilized as models for image recognition and processing. Many variations are possible.

The vector generation module can be configured to facilitate generating a first multi dimensional vector based on the inputting of the first image including the first set of poselets into the first instance of the neural network. The vector generation module can also be configured to facilitate generating a second multi dimensional vector based on the inputting of the second image including the second set of poselets into the second instance of the neural network. In some embodiments each of the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector can be associated with 256 dimensions. For example the vector generation module can generate the first multi dimensional vector to be a first 256 dimensional vector and can generate the second multi dimensional vector to be a second 256 dimensional vector.

In some instances the generating of the first and second multi dimensional vectors can be similar to a dimension reduction process. The first and second multi dimensional vectors can be generated to describe encompass and or represent etc. the first and second images including the first and second sets of poselets while reducing the complexities of the first and second images respectively. Accordingly the first and second images including the first and second sets of poselets or relevant important portions thereof can be represented and simplified by the first and second multi dimensional vectors. In some cases a distance metric such as a Euclidean distance can subsequently be determined for a pair of generated multi dimensional vectors. The distance metric can be utilized to assess how close or far away the vectors in the pair are. As such the distance metric can be used to assess how similar or different the pair s corresponding images poselets are.

Furthermore in some implementations the modification module can be configured to facilitate modifying the neural network. For example the modification module can modify one or more weights associated with the neural network via one or more neural network back propagation processes. A back propagation process can generally refer to a method of training neural networks used in conjunction with an optimization method such as gradient descent. Accordingly the back propagation can be utilized such as in conjunction with other processes e.g. the optimization method to train the neural network to identify and distinguish between users.

In some embodiments the example neural network can receive as input the image including the set of poselets e.g. the darkened circular elements . The neural network can output a multi dimensional vector that represents or describes the image including the set of poselets. It should be understood that the example scenarios described herein are for illustrative purposes and not necessarily drawn to scale. There can be many variations and other possibilities.

In some implementations a first set of poselets e.g. darkened elements in poselet set associated with User A can be detected in the query image . A second set of poselets e.g. darkened elements in poselet set associated with User A can be detected in the positive image . A third set of poselets e.g. darkened elements in poselet set associated with User B can be detected in the negative image . The query image including the first set of poselets can be inputted into the first neural network instance and a first multi dimensional vector can be outputted. The positive image including the second set of poselets can be inputted into the second neural network instance and a second multi dimensional vector can be outputted. The negative image including the third set of poselets can be inputted into the third neural network instance and a third multi dimensional vector can be outputted. Moreover a first distance metric e.g. Euclidean distance between the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector can be determined. A second distance metric between the first and third multi dimensional vectors can also be determined.

In some embodiments the training of the neural network can include modifying the neural network to cause the first distance metric to be lesser than the second distance metric. In some cases one or more weights associated with the neural network can be modified via one or more neural network back propagation processes. As discussed a back propagation process can refer to a neural network training method used in some cases with an optimization method. The back propagation process can calculate a gradient of a loss function with respect to the weights associated with the neural network. The gradient can be provided to the optimization method. The optimization method can update the weights in attempt to minimize the loss function. In some embodiments the weights for each instance e.g. instances and of the neural network can be averaged in a training iteration of the neural network. In some cases the loss function can correspond to a loss metric determined by calculating a maximum value between zero and 1 the second distance metric the first distance metric . The modifying of the neural network to cause the first distance metric to be lesser than the second distance metric can be based on minimizing the loss metric. Furthermore iterations of this training process can be repeated using other training images. Many variations are possible.

At block the example method can receive a first image including a representation of a first user. At block the example method can receive a second image including a representation of a second user. At block the example method can detect in the first image a first set of poselets associated with the first user. At block the example method can detect in the second image a second set of poselets associated with the second user. At block the example method can input the first image including the first set of poselets into a first instance of a neural network to generate a first multi dimensional vector. At block the example method can input the second image including the second set of poselets into a second instance of the neural network to generate a second multi dimensional vector. At block the example method can determine a first distance metric between the first multi dimensional vector and the second multi dimensional vector

At block the example method can receive a third image including a representation of a third user. At block the example method can detect in the third image a third set of poselets associated with the third user. At block the example method can input the third image including the third set of poselets into a third instance of the neural network to generate a third multi dimensional vector. At block the example method can determine a second distance metric between the first multi dimensional vector and the third multi dimensional vector. At block the example method can modify the neural network to cause the first distance metric to be lesser than the second distance metric.

At block the example method can determine that the first distance metric is less than a specified distance threshold. At block the example method can indicate that the first user and the second user correspond to a same user.

In some embodiments various embodiments of the present disclosure can be configured or trained to recognize or identify a particular user or person. In some embodiments various embodiments can be configured or trained to differentiate among multiple users or persons.

It is contemplated that there can be many other uses applications and or variations associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example in some cases user can choose whether or not to opt in to utilize the disclosed technology. The disclosed technology can also ensure that various privacy settings and preferences are maintained. In another example various embodiments of the present disclosure can learn improve and or be refined over time.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices or systems that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a computing device or a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a laptop computer a wearable device e.g. a pair of glasses a watch a bracelet etc. a camera an appliance etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 702.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure. The social networking system may be administered managed or controlled by an operator. The operator of the social networking system may be a human being an automated application or a series of applications for managing content regulating policies and collecting usage metrics within the social networking system . Any type of operator may be used.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log and an authorization server . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

In some embodiments the social networking system can include a poselet based user identification module . The poselet based user identification module can for example be implemented as the poselet based user identification module of . Other features of the poselet based user identification module are discussed herein in connection with the poselet based user identification module .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Moreover the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor . In various implementations a module or modules can be executed by a processor or multiple processors in one or multiple locations such as multiple servers in a parallel processing environment.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments some embodiments various embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

