---

title: Alerting system using distributed notification delivery
abstract: A system and a method are disclosed for delivering an alert from a computer system using distributed notification delivery. The method comprises using a computer system to receive an alert initiation request from an alert operator, where the alert initiation request includes metadata of an alert to be delivered. The method extracts the metadata from the alert initiation request and from its persistent storage place and persistently stores the extracted metadata in a first storage place on the computer system. The method further makes an alert initiation request with one or more communication systems based on the extracted metadata of the alert. The method securely delivers the alert initiation request and extracted metadata to one or more communication systems, which store the metadata transiently for the duration of delivering the alert, deliver the alert to multiple alert recipients tracks delivery progress and collect alert responses, reporting these back to the computer system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08836479&OS=08836479&RS=08836479
owner: AtHoc, Inc.
number: 08836479
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140321
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 292 888 filed on Nov. 9 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 736 443 issued May 27 2014 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 415 939 filed on Nov. 22 2010 entitled MOBILE ALERTING SYSTEM USING DISTRIBUTED NOTIFICATION DELIVERY all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of emergency mass notification systems more particularly to a mobile alerting system using distributed mass notification delivery.

Organizations face many threats which may affect their operation and the safety and security of their facilities and personnel. There is a growth of use of Emergency Mass Notification Systems EMNS by many organizations and on different levels e.g. from a national state local to corporate and organization levels. Emergency Mass Notification systems allow authorized personnel to trigger alerts that are sent to large number of targeted recipients via a variety of communication methods including electronic mail email short messaging system SMS voice phone alerts computer screens sirens digital displays and others. EMNS can also provide detailed delivery and response tracking and provide aggregated results via reports.

Conventional EMNS solutions are typically implemented in one of two ways a Software as a Service SaaS EMNS system and an on premise EMNS system. The SaaS system is hosted by a commercial hosting facility which maintains all data repositories users contact details alerting scenarios etc. and offers its functionality over the web using data communication methods like voice phone alerts email SMS and others. An on premise EMNS system is installed in a customer site behind the firewall of the customer site and keeps all data local to the customer network. These systems are often connected to local delivery and communication systems such as telephony exchange PBX email gateways networked computers etc. offering communication capabilities such as phone dialing email delivery desktop pop ups on computers etc to targeted recipients.

When customer data is sensitive for example in government agencies and US Department of Defense the customer usually chooses for the second solution architecture i.e. on premise EMNS system . The common conventional deployment architecture is an on premise EMNS residing on customer site or data center behind the customer firewall. However a fully hosted system model is not acceptable in these cases because of data sensitivity or classification.

The conventional on premise EMNS faces many challenges for efficiently delivering an alert to a large number of recipients via a variety of communication methods. For example one challenge faced by the on premise EMNS occurs when due to major disasters that require evacuation of the facility or major local failures the on premise EMNS becomes not accessible or not available. Most common available solution is reverting to fully hosted alternatives which as described above are not acceptable due to data sensitivity. There is no solution as of today to bridge this gap without compromising data sensitivity or without reverting to use of limited local communication means such as phone lines in an alternate location. This limitation prevents a solution to provide large scale notification services based on sensitive information in emergency situation when a local failure or disaster occurs.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The above and other needs are met by a mobile alerting system using distributed notification delivery. In one example embodiment the mobile alerting system stores securely all the sensitive information and executes an application to manage the mass notification process. The mobile alerting system uses a remote distributed alert delivery means in a separate highly redundant location which can be connected to the mobile alerting system to deliver the alerts to the appropriate recipients via multiple delivery methods. The mobile alerting device can also synchronize with an on premise alerting system to assure that all information needed for alerting such as recipients contact information alerting flows is stored on the mobile alerting device and available even if the on premise system is not available.

Example embodiments of a disclosed method include receiving an alert initiation request from an alert operator where the alert initiation request contains metadata of an alert to be delivered. The method extracts the metadata from the alert initiation request and its persistent storage place where the extracted metadata includes at least one of alert content alert parameters recipients list notification delivery device addresses list of devices to be targeted and alert delivery scheduling information.

In one example embodiment the method persistently stores the extracted metadata in a first storage place on the mobile alerting system and makes an alert initiation request with one or more remote communication systems based on the extracted metadata of the alert initiation request. The remote communication system provides functions for delivering alerts. Responsive to an alert initiation request being authenticated the method securely delivers the alert initiation request and extracted metadata of the alert initiation request to the remote communication system. The remote communication system stores the metadata transiently in a second storage place for the duration of delivering the alert within the remote communication system. The remote communication system is delivering the alert to the targeted recipients via their specified delivery devices as designated in the alert initiation metadata and is tracking delivery progress and collecting alert responses. The method further collects tracking data and alert responses associated with the alert delivered within the remote communication system updates the metadata persistently stored in the first storage place based on the tracking data and alert responses.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a smartphone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions S sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute instructions S to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system S includes a processor S e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs or any combination of these a main memory S and a static memory S which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus S. The computer system may further include graphics display unit S e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include alphanumeric input device S e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device S e.g. a mouse a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit S a signal generation device S e.g. a speaker and a network interface device S which also are configured to communicate via the bus S.

The storage unit S includes a machine readable medium S on which is stored instructions S e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions S e.g. software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory S or within the processor S e.g. within a processor s cache memory during execution thereof by the computer system S the main memory S and the processor S also constituting machine readable media. The instructions S e.g. software may be transmitted or received over a network S via the network interface device S.

While machine readable medium S is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions e.g. instructions S . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions S for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies disclosed herein. The term machine readable medium includes but not be limited to data repositories in the form of solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In one embodiment the mobile platform is a mobile computer such as a laptop or notebook but possibly also be a smartphone or another mobile computing platform such as tablet device in other embodiments. The mobile computer can be ruggedized or semi ruggedized. The Internet connectivity module provides the MAS a network connection via one or more Internet connection methods e.g. via LAN Wi Fi broadband or satellite phone connection. The MAS executes the alerting application with appropriate user interaction UI component either as web based console or as native client UI .

The MAS stores all the data required for its operation including all user repositories user lists contact details distribution lists etc. in its local repository and database . Data sensitivity e.g. Data At Rest DAR sensitivity can be protected by using encrypted data storage to maintain all database data and prevent data leak in case of stolen or lost laptop or mobile computing device in addition to implementing access control to the mobile computing OS . The data storage encryption may be accompanied by further securing the computing device operating system to comply with government regulations.

In one embodiment the communication flow between the MAS and the remote communication system may be implemented as simple object access protocol SOAP web services representational state transfer REST or extensible markup language XML payloads over hypertext text transfer protocol secure HTTPS . The MAS sends alert initiation and alert cancellation communication to the remote communication system . The reporting can be periodically polled from an emergency mass notification system EMNS or be initiated from the remote communication system .

Once the remote communication system accepts an authenticated alert initiation the remote communication system starts delivering the alert per allocated and available resources while tracks delivery status user responses and accounting and billing information. The reporting and tracking data including alert responses is periodically fetched by the MAS or periodically delivered to the MAS e.g. steps and to allow collection and storing of all alert response and tracking data on the MAS local storage database .

An alert may end or be canceled for all or for specific recipients on the MAS . If the alert is canceled an alert cancellation request is initiated from the MAS to the remote communication system . Upon accepting such authenticated cancellation request the remote communication system stops delivery of alert to all recipients or to designated recipients.

The remote communication system executes the alert delivery application to store the alert specific data e.g. alert content alert parameters etc. and the received alert responses ongoing alert distribution status and aggregate billing data related to the alert delivery in the transient data repository . Additional non alert specific configuration parameters or application specific data may be stored in the persistent storage of the remote communication system on a persistent basis.

After the alert delivery ends or canceled for all recipients the remote communication system anonymizes the sensitive data in e.g. purge or scrap mask the sensitive data. Scrapping may be implemented by masking updating the sensitive data by non descript characters e.g. XXX XXX.XXX for email addresses . Sensitive information for example may include the alert content recipient name and their contact details email addresses phone numbers etc. . The purging or scrapping of sensitive data shall not affect accounting or billing of delivery transactions through tracking accumulated and aggregate usage. This data will be stored in a persistent storage e.g. persistent storage in .

To further illustrate the operation of the MAS described above is a flow chart of delivering an alert from the MAS to a remote communication system according to one embodiment. Initially the MAS receives an alert initiation request from an alert operator where the alert initiation request contains metadata of an alert to be delivered. The MAS extracts the metadata from the alert initiation request. The extracted metadata include at least one of alert content alert parameters recipients list notification delivery device addresses list of devices to be targeted and alert delivery scheduling information. The MAS persistently stores the extracted metadata in a first storage place e.g. the local storage DB where sensitive data is not persistently stored. The MAS authenticates the alert initiation request with a remote communication system based on the extracted metadata of the alert initiation request. Responsive to the alert initiation request being authenticated the MAS securely delivers the alert initiation request and extracted metadata of the alert initiation request to the remote communication system . The remote communication system stores the metadata transiently in a second storage place e.g. the transient storage of for a duration of delivering the alert within the remote communication system . The remote communication system delivers the alert based on the alert metadata. The MAS further collects tracking data and responses associated with the alert delivered within the remote communication system and updates the metadata persistently stored in the first storage place based on the tracking data and alert responses.

MAS can be deployed in two example scenarios as a backup to a central on premise EMNS or as a stand alone mobile alerting system. In the embodiment illustrated in the MAS is deployed as a backup to a central on premise EMNS . In this deployment all or a subset of the data of the central EMNS data repository is replicated periodically or on demand from the EMNS data repository to the MAS to be stored in the local storage database . The MAS is ready to be used in an emergency situation as a backup EMNS for example during Emergency Operation Center evacuation or when central on premise EMNS systems are not operational or not accessible.

In another embodiment as illustrated in the MAS is deployed as a stand alone mobile alerting system. In this case the MAS stores all operational data for all alerting function in its local storage database and is maintained by its operators and administrators. Integration with customer data repositories such as Active Directory and lightweight directory access protocol LDAP may be implemented to synchronize user data and maintain the most updated version of user data by a user data synchronization module .

In both example cases the alerting functionality can be implemented by configuring the MAS to securely use remote communication systems for the actual delivery of alerts via their supported communication methods such as voice phone calls email text messaging etc steps . The remote communication systems purge or anonymize all alert sensitive data after alert delivery ends to protect data sensitivity.

The MAS may include a dashboard e.g. in indicating the status of the MAS as well as connectivity status of the mobile computing device and access to detailed status logs. If the MAS is used as a backup for a central EMNS the dashboard may also indicate availability of the organization s central alerting system and freshness of the local system s data repository. is an example of a MAS dashboard of a MAS as a backup to a central on premise EMNS e.g. the backup deployment configuration . In backup deployment configuration the dashboard may also provide user interface to setup data synchronization parameters. is an example of a setup page for backup deployment configuration of the MAS . The dashboard may be implemented using a web based application. In an alternative embodiment of the invention the MAS may be implemented as a client application residing on the mobile computing device. The MAS can be installed natively on the mobile computing device or installed in a virtual machine on the native OS of the mobile computing device.

When used as a backup to a central EMNS system e.g. during non emergency periods the MAS is usually connected to the local network or via WAN and VPN and gets data updates from a central system as described above. In an emergency situation when Emergency Operation Center needs to be evacuated or when central system and its backups are not operational or not available the MAS is connected to the Internet via an alternate route for example Wi Fi broadband or satellite and can be used by its authenticated and authorized operators to securely send emergency notifications to targeted recipients using the remote communication systems .

When the MAS is used as a backup for an on premise central EMNS as illustrated in the MAS implements a data update module i.e. data sync module which is responsible for background data synchronization with the central emergency notification system. In one embodiment the data sync module is configured to download all or a subset of the operational data and update its local repository in the local storage database . The update can be automated to be run on a set schedule and or be activated on demand.

The data update module can be implemented in multiple ways. Taking the data sync module of as an example one example embodiment of the data update module include a data sync module of a centralized system for exporting data per subset of the system e.g. a unit a department or all system. The export can be implemented using intermediate file format for example XML based or a database backup. The exported files may be compressed and stored in a centralized repository e.g. central DB or a file system . The central system maintains parameters to what needs to be exported and on what schedule. Every exported file or groups of files are time stamped.

Another embodiment of the data update module includes a local MAS sync module e.g. the data sync module . The data sync module can be activated on a schedule and or on demand. Upon synchronization the module checks a computer server to see what data export is available. If there is a newer file or group of files on the central system the data sync module downloads the files possibly using chunks to ensure appropriate download of large files and optionally throttles bandwidth use to minimally affect network performance. Once all needed data is downloaded the data sync module extracts the compressed files loads the files into temporary tables or database and imports the data into the running database instance on the local storage database . The data sync module potentially runs some local update scripts to update sequences filter data etc . If the update procedure is in process the local MAS system may not be accessible for a user to avoid data conflicts due to partial update . The data sync module is further configured to adjust the data synchronization process based on network bandwidth.

An example of alert data synchronization process is shown in . Responsive to all update being complete the local MAS system may be available for use as needed. The synchronization process may be aborted by an operator if needed. An operator may also choose to revert back to the state prior to last synchronization. Another implementation keeps the running data instance while updating a shadow copy maintaining full MAS functionality during the update and switching between the data sets upon completion of the data synchronization.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms for example as described with and . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented e.g. processor . For example at least some of the operations of a method e.g. as described in may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors e.g. may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors e.g. not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for predicting potential reach of an alert to a targeted audience in an emergency mass notification system through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

