---

title: Junction box fitting for marine cables
abstract: An electrical conduit ground assembly is provided for electrically and environmentally shielding an electric cable that inserts into a junction box via a through-hole. The assembly includes an adapter flange, first and second annular gaskets, first and second annular washers, a slip-ring, a ground adapter, first and second lock-nuts and a gland nut. The adapter flange has an internally threaded proximate end, an externally threaded mezzanine, a hexagonal seat, and an externally threaded distal end insertable into the through-hole. The first annular gasket inserts into the proximate end. The first and second washers insert into the proximate end. The annular ground adapter electrically connects the cable and the annular conduit between the first and second washers. The second annular gasket has an annular shaft and a circular brim. The gland nut screws into the proximate end of the adapter flange.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09054433&OS=09054433&RS=09054433
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09054433
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140428
---
The invention is a Continuation in Part claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 051 385 filed Oct. 10 2013 released as Publication 2014 0041938 and assigned Navy Case 102763 which is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 385 470 filed Jan. 26 2012 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 562 361 and assigned Navy Case 101421 which claims the benefit of priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 61 628 298 with a filing date of Oct. 11 2011.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to fittings for electrical cable ground adapters especially those used aboard marine vessels and platforms. In particular the invention relates to embodiments for a flange connector to a junction box.

The United States Navy currently provides electromagnetic EM shielding from coupling to topside i.e. above deck cables. Such cables can be inserted into a junction box for environmental protection and interconnection with electrical components.

Conventional electrical ground adapters yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide an electrical grounding adapter within a conduit sealing assembly for electrically and environmentally shielding an electric cable. Various exemplary embodiments provide an electrical conduit ground assembly for electrically and environmentally shielding an electric cable that inserts into a junction box via a through hole. The exemplary assembly includes an adapter flange first and second annular gaskets first and second annular washers a slip ring a ground adapter first and second lock nuts and a gland nut. The adapter flange has an internally threaded proximate end an externally threaded mezzanine a hexagonal seat and an externally threaded distal end insertable into the through hole.

In various exemplary embodiments the first annular gasket inserts into the proximate end and includes frustum and cylinder portions. The first annular washer inserts into the proximate end and disposal on the first gasket. The slip ring inserts into the proximate end and disposal on the first washer. The second annular washer inserts into the proximate end and disposal on the slip ring. The annular ground adapter electrically connects the cable and the annular conduit and inserts between the first and second washers and securable by the slip ring with the cable installed in the junction box. The second annular gasket has an annular shaft and a circular brim that radially extends from a brim end that faces the second annular washer.

The gland nut screws into the proximate end of the adapter flange the gland nut having a hexagonal proximate end and an externally threaded distal end. The annular shaft of the second annular gasket inserts into the gland nut from the threaded distal end. The first lock nut screws onto the mezzanine and abut the landing whereas the second lock nut screws onto the distal end of the adapter flange.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Conduits for these cables can employ an exemplary cable shield ground adapter CSGA conduit to achieve grounding effectiveness exceeding 80 decibels dB while facilitating expedient replacement in contrast to conventional shielding configurations. The background section of parent U.S. Pat. No. 8 562 361 includes further details about the conventional configurations. The exemplary CSGA can be used in a swage stuffing tube or within an exemplary fitting that connects to a junction box.

Swage tubes as military part M24235 17 have several standard sizes as listed at http www.shipboardelectrical.com swagetubes.html including a tube body gland nut and gland ring. The tube body can be stainless steel or aluminum. For purposes of disclosure sizes B C D and K are described herein although the principles described herein can be extended to additional cable sizes. Respective cable bore diameters for sizes B C D and K are 0.515 inch 0.640 0.750 and 1.171 inches . MIL S 24235 2C provides the military standard dimensions for electrical cable packaging available at http dornequipment.com milspecs pdf 24235 2C.pdf.

A gland ring constitutes a shim or spacer between the upper gasket and other components in the swage tube . The views and show orientation from upstream at the left to downstream at the right in the direction for inserting a cable to be shielded and grounded. An upper pair of slip rings and provides axial restraint between a CSGA diaphragm and the gland ring . A lower pair of slip rings and provides axial restraint between the CSGA diaphragm and a lower gasket or seal . Another optional insert upper gasket together with the lower gasket provide an environmental seal for the stuffing tube interior of a swage tube into which the components can be inserted.

The insert upper gaskets enable a large size swage tube to accept a thinner cable and maintain environmental integrity thereby expanding installation flexibility. The upper gaskets and have a geometric configuration reminiscent of a top hat or stove hat. The lower gasket has a geometric configuration approximating a frustum e.g. truncated cone . The gaskets and provide environmental seals for the CSGA in the swage tube and are composed of rubber with various sizes disclosed in Publication 2014 0041938.

For purposes of grounding a stetson or porkpie design for the CSGA diaphragm is incorporated herein which can be produced as a metal ribbon or strip with a repeating pattern cut to length the tabs bent inward or outward and the ends joined together to wrap around an electrical cable to be grounded. Publication 2014 0041938 illustrates deployable and flat strip views respectively in of the stetson configuration. The tube adapter assembly includes for the swage tube the CSGA diaphragm to protect a cable but also the fittings e.g. the gland nut spacer rings and and gaskets and to provide environmental protection especially salt water spray contamination. An analogous adapter assembly for a junction box application similar to that provided for the swage tube is described herein.

The upper slip rings and provide axial restraint between the CSGA diaphragm with the gland ring separating these components from between the upper gasket . The gland nut includes external threads to engage the interior threads of the flange . An upper lock nut screws onto the mezzanine to engage the landing . A lower lock nut screws onto the downstream end to secure the landing to the inner surface .

The junction box through adapter assembly described herein represents a modification of an analogous through adapter described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 562 361 particularly FIGS. 34 38. The modifications to the prior adapter enhance the utility of the adapter with respect to grounding cables and conduit installed in junction boxes composed of non conductive composite or dielectric materials. The modified adapter retains the utility of the original design with respect to junction boxes made of metal conductive materials or materials having a conductive coating.

The U.S. Navy is increasing the use of composite fixtures on combat vessels due to considerations of corrosion weight and cost. While the composite materials have significant advantages in these three areas the means of grounding the penetrations to these boxes is made more difficult. Metal fixtures can be grounded directly to a bulkhead or connected to the bulkhead via a conductive ground strap. Composite fixtures can conventionally ground a through connector in one of two ways 1 via a ground strap attached to a grounding lug or bolt threaded into the body of the through adapter or 2 via an additional adapter component secured to the fixture into which the through adapter is inserted.

The additional component i.e. the flange provides a threaded sleeve through which the CSGA may be inserted and the ground strap is secured between the two adapter components. This corresponds to stacking two of the through adapters as previously described with the exception that only a single gland nut would be required. Although the configuration would be effective its excessive weight and unnecessary cost present disadvantages.

The modification to the exemplary through adapter assembly from the parent invention includes the addition of machine threading to a portion of the flange of the through adapter as well as a lock nut with matching interior threads. The unthreaded surface could be of a smooth finish or knurled to enhance frictional grip. The external portion of the flange which includes the upstream end mezzanine and the landing is also referred to as the upper portion of the adapter assembly . The downstream end of the adapter that typically resides inside the junction box is referred to as the lower portion of the adapter assembly .

The upstream end of the flange is unthreaded to enhance component handling and installation by ship personnel. Threading of the full length can lead to unexpected hand injury during twisting. A threaded surface would also be problematic to grasping tools such as band wrenches pipe wrenches and large pliers by likely damaging the threads and thereby compromising ability to either install or remove the lock nut . The upstream end of the flange is also of smaller outside diameter than the threaded mezzanine enabling easier application of the upper lock nut . Preferably this incorporates a National Pipe Straight NPS or National Pipe Taper NPT thread for the exterior threading on the external adapter portion as well as the exterior threading on the lower portion.

The associated upper and lower lock nuts and employ the same NPS or NPT threading. The adoption of NPS or NPT thread facilitates broader use of the less expensive commercially available lock nuts. The interior would retain a Unified Screw UN or Unified Screw Fine UNF threading in order to maintain compatibility with standard stuffing tube gland nuts. Designation of this preferred threading does not preclude the use of other types of threading.

The purpose of the modification is to simplify the means of attaching a grounding strap or plate to the adapter while minimizing the need for additional components. The lower portion of the adapter assembly is inserted into the junction box or fixture with the adapter seat landing flush against the fixture. After insertion into the through hole the lock nut is threaded onto the downstream end to secure the through connector to the fixture wall. A flexible O ring seal within the annular groove can be provided between the landing and the outer wall .

A grounding strap or plate with a grounding lug of sufficient radius is disposed over the upper portion of the adapter flange and fits over the threading until being flush with the exposed portion of the landing . The lock nut is threaded onto the upper portion of the adapter to secure the grounding strap or plate to the adapter assembly . The other end of the grounding strap or plate is secured to a ship s bulkhead.

The commercial potential for the ground shield adapter described within broad and global in nature. The designs can be used for commercial as well as naval ship construction. Due to the inherent design tolerance for either SAE or metric dimensions for swage tubes the exemplary design can be employed for both domestic and foreign ship construction. Although designed with maritime applications in consideration the exemplary configurations described herein can also be extended for general construction practices where junction boxes swage tubes or other breach type fittings might be required for facility cable penetrations that require EM grounding stabilization or weather sealing.

The U.S. Navy utilizes hundreds of topside components that require electrical power or signal connections to systems internal to the surface ship via cable. Because of the complex and system hostile electromagnetic EM environment the connecting cables must be protected from unwanted EM coupling to the signal or power cable. Thus the cables can be protected from the EM environment by a conductive cable shield grounded via the CSGA assembly to the ship s bulkhead.

Current CSGA technologies utilized by the Navy are difficult to manufacture due to machining difficult to install repair and replace due to design characteristics have relatively short service life due to poor environmental design and are very expensive approximately 300 per unit in quantity . The Navy also currently purchases CSGAs assemblies in multiple sizes due to inability of conventional CSGA to adapt to multiple swage tube sizes or cable diameters thereby significantly increasing acquisition logistics and design costs. The strategic goal of the proposed design is to provide the Navy a cost efficient technology that can significantly reduce total ownership costs via acquisition maintenance and logistics across the fleet.

The exemplary embodiments incorporate relatively few parts. Common components include environmental seals that also perform as stabilizing structural components for cable centering and conductive spacers that perform diaphragm deformation control functions. The CSGA diaphragm can employ a cut stamped component of conductive sheeting to wrap around a cable. The exemplary adapter designs for the junction box also utilize all components of the stuffing tube assembly including the brass gland nut conventionally unutilized for shielded cable applications.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

