---

title: Content sorting and channel definition technology
abstract: Content sorting and definition technology, in which input defining multiple content links to include in a channel is received from a content curator and supplemental channel information that facilitates user experience of content linked to by at least one of the multiple content links is determined. Channel information for the channel associated with the content curator is defined based on the multiple content links and the supplemental channel information and the defined channel information is published at a channel link to make the channel information available to user devices of a content delivery network. The channel link is a network address at which the defined channel information is made available to the user devices of the content delivery network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357249&OS=09357249&RS=09357249
owner: PurpleComm Inc.
number: 09357249
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141027
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 795 007 filed Jun. 7 2010 now allowed which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Content viewers today are exposed to an overwhelming amount of information and are challenged by the degree of interaction and personalization needed to manage this massive amount of information. In an era of digital communications a user may be confused by an array of technology including traditional analog televisions DVRs Digital Video Recorders PVRs Personal Video Recorders media centers EPG Electronic Program Guide based systems Internet related content and traditional remote control devices.

In one aspect a method of providing channel information to users of a content delivery network includes receiving from a content curator input defining multiple content links to include in a channel associated with the content curator. Each content link includes an address at which content is made available over a network. The method also includes determining using a network server system supplemental channel information that facilitates user experience of content linked to by at least one of the multiple content links and defining using the network server system channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links and the supplemental channel information. The method further includes publishing using the network server system the defined channel information at a channel link for the channel associated with the content curator to make the defined channel information available to user devices of a content delivery network. The channel link is a network address at which the defined channel information is made available to the user devices of the content delivery network.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may include determining using the network server system one or more hot indices for at least one of the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator and defining using the network server system channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links and the one or more hot indices.

In some implementations the method may include enabling the content curator to review content linked to by a particular content link from the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator and receiving from the content curator selection of one or more hot indices to define in the content linked to by the particular content link. Each of the one or more hot indices may point to a different position within the content linked to by the particular content link. In these implementations the method may include storing in association with the particular content link and for each of the one or more hot indices timing data that indicates the position within the content linked to by the particular content link pointed to by the corresponding hot index.

In some examples the method may include monitoring users viewing behavior when viewing content linked to by a particular content link from the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator and based on the monitoring collecting viewing behavior analytics data for the content linked to by the particular content link. In these examples the method may include automatically creating without human intervention one or more hot indices for the content linked to by the particular content link based on the viewing behavior analytics data. Each of the one or more hot indices may point to a different position within the content linked to by the particular content link. Further in these examples the method may include storing in association with the particular content link and for each of the one or more automatically created hot indices timing data that indicates the position within the content linked to by the particular content link pointed to by the corresponding hot index.

In addition the method may include monitoring users fast forwarding rewinding and playing behavior when viewing content linked to by a particular content link from the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator and based on the monitoring collecting fast forwarding rewinding and playing behavior data for the content linked to by the particular content link. The fast forwarding rewinding and playing behavior data may include data indicating portions of the content linked to by the particular content link where users fast forward the content portions of the content linked to by the particular content link where users rewind the content and portions of the content linked to by the particular content link where users play the content. The method may include automatically creating without human intervention one or more hot indices for the content linked to by the particular content link based on the fast forwarding rewinding and playing behavior data. At least one of the hot indices may be created to identify a position within the content linked to by the particular content link where users transition from fast forwarding or rewinding the content to playing the content.

The method may include determining using the network server system a content preview file to associate with at least one of the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator and defining using the network server system channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links and the determined content preview file to associate with at least one of the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator. The method also may include enabling the content curator to review content linked to by a particular content link from the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator and receiving from the content curator selection of a subset of the content linked to by the particular content link. The method further may include generating a particular content preview file for the content linked to by the particular content link using the subset of the content linked to by the particular content link selected by the content curator and storing in association with the particular content link the generated content preview file.

In some examples the method may include in response to input adding a particular content link to the channel associated with the content curator automatically without human intervention searching for a previously generated content preview file corresponding to content linked to by the particular content link and based on results of the searching determining whether a previously generated content preview file exists for the content linked to by the particular content link. In these examples the method may include in response to a determination that a previously generated content preview file exists for the content linked to by the particular content link automatically storing in association with the particular content link the previously generated content preview file. In response to a determination that a previously generated content preview file does not exist for the content linked to by the particular content link the content curator may be prompted to define a content preview file for the content linked to by the particular content link. In response to a determination that a previously generated content preview file does not exist for the content linked to by the particular content link a default content preview file may be generated for the content linked to by the particular content link.

Further the method may include determining using the network server system metadata to associate with the channel generally and metadata to associate at least one of the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator and defining using the network server system channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links and the metadata to associate with the channel generally and the metadata to associate at least one of the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator. The method also may include determining using the network server system order information for arranging the multiple content links in the channel associated with the content curator and defining using the network server system channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links and the determined order information for arranging the multiple content links in the channel associated with the content curator.

In some implementations the method may include determining using the network server system that one or more modifications to the channel information that defines the channel associated with the content curator are needed and in response to the determination that one or more modifications to the channel information that defines the channel associated with the content curator are needed identifying using the network server system updated channel information that defines updates to the channel information needed to make the one or more modifications. In these implementations the method may include publishing using the network server system the updated channel information at the channel link for the channel associated with the content curator such that user devices of subscribers to the channel associated with the content curator receive the updated channel information through the channel link.

In addition the method may include receiving from the content curator input describing one or more modifications to content links included in the channel associated with the content curator and determining that one or more modifications to the channel information that defines the channel associated with the content curator are needed based on the received input describing one or more modifications to content links included in the channel associated with the content curator. The method also may include receiving from the content curator input describing one or more modifications to supplemental channel information related to the channel associated with the content curator and determining that one or more modifications to the channel information that defines the channel associated with the content curator are needed based on the received input describing one or more modifications to supplemental channel information related to the channel associated with the content curator.

The method may include electronically monitoring without human intervention aspects of the channel associated with the content curator and based on the monitoring automatically without human intervention determining that one or more modifications to content links included in the channel associated with the content curator are needed. For instance the method may include electronically monitoring without human intervention aspects of the channel associated with the content curator and based on the monitoring automatically determining without human intervention that one or more modifications to supplemental channel information related to the channel associated with the content curator are needed. The method also may include publishing using the network server system only the updated channel information at the channel link for the channel associated with the content curator such that user devices of subscribers to the channel associated with the content curator that previously received the defined channel information receive only the updated channel information through the channel link.

In some examples the method may include receiving from the content curator input defining a first link to streaming content the first link including a first address at which content is streamed over a network to user devices. In these examples the method may include receiving from the content curator input defining a second link to downloadable content. The second link may include a second address at which content is available to be downloaded over a network by user devices. Further in these examples the method may include publishing using the network server system the defined channel information that includes the first link and the second link such that the channel associated with the content curator includes the streaming content linked to by the first link and the downloadable content linked to by the second link.

In another aspect a system includes at least one computer and at least one computer readable medium coupled to the at least one computer having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the at least one computer causes the at least one computer to perform operations. The operations include receiving from a content curator input defining multiple content links to include in a channel associated with the content curator. Each content link includes an address at which content is made available over a network. The operations also include determining supplemental channel information that facilitates user experience of content linked to by at least one of the multiple content links and defining channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links and the supplemental channel information. The operations further include publishing the defined channel information at a channel link to make the defined channel information available to user devices of a content delivery network. The channel link is a network address at which the defined channel information is made available to the user devices of the content delivery network.

In yet another aspect at least one computer readable storage medium is encoded with at least one computer program comprising instructions that when executed operate to cause a computer to perform operations. The operations include receiving from a content curator input defining multiple content links to include in a channel associated with the content curator. Each content link includes an address at which content is made available over a network. The operations also include determining supplemental channel information that facilitates user experience of content linked to by at least one of the multiple content links and defining channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links and the supplemental channel information. The operations further include publishing the defined channel information at a channel link to make the defined channel information available to user devices of a content delivery network. The channel link is a network address at which the defined channel information is made available to the user devices of the content delivery network.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Multiple types of content such as audio e.g. music podcasts video and still images e.g. photographs may be made available over the content delivery network . Licensed and license free content may be made available. For example licensed content may be acquired from a content owner .

Content may be made available from a variety of sources. For example Internet content may be accessed from an Internet link e.g. URL Uniform Resource Locator . Content may also be accessed from peer to peer networks. For example content may be accessed from one or more BitTorrent clients which are part of one or more BitTorrent swarms . Content may be accessed from other sources such as from a television broadcast e.g. MSO Multiple System Operator cable satellite local or from content e.g. photographs audio previously recorded video available from devices e.g. DVR stereo computer DVD Digital Video Disc player connected to a user s home network and or located in a user s home.

Content curators may use a content curator portal to define custom channels which may be made available for subscription by end users . The content curators may be commissioned to search for select and organize multiple types of content from various sources into channels. Content curators may for example organize channels by topic or genre. Content curators may for example select licensed content license free content BitTorrent content or content from their private collection to name a few examples.

Channels may be offered for free to end users or end users may subscribe to channels on a fee basis. Users may rate or rank channels or content curators based for example on programming selection sequencing and quality. Content curators may be promoted for example based on popularity.

Content owners may be compensated for the use of licensed content that they own which is used in channels defined by content curators . For example the system may provide support for digital rights management DRM . By allowing access to their licensed content content owners may experience increased distribution and revenue and targeted exposure in focused channels. Multiple revenue agreements may be possible such as per use agreements subscription revenue sharing and advertisement revenue sharing.

A content curator may work with one or more advertisers such as an ad agency to include advertisements on a channel. For example an advertisement may be displayed if a user switches a channel or when a program finishes. As another example advertisements may be displayed on the display of a remote control device such as while a program is being displayed on a television. Content curators advertisers and content owners may share advertising revenue. Sharing in advertising revenue may provide an incentive for content curators to create interesting and popular channels. A content curator may work with one or more advertisers to create one or more advertisements which are customized and targeted for one or more particular channels. End users may customize advertisement viewing preferences such as by specifying preferred topics preferred or excluded companies region preferences etc.

Advertisers may use an advertiser portal to upload advertisements and to control advertisement publication. Advertisers may define and apply advertisement insertion rules to particular advertisements and or may allow a content curator to decide when and how to insert the advertisements into channels defined by the content curator . APIs Application Programming Interfaces may be provided which allow advertisers to enable the system to interface with standard advertisement inventory management systems to allow for control and management of advertisements . Various advertisement pricing plans may be supported such as individually priced ads or bulk pricing. Other advertising features may be included such as online purchasing of items or providing customer contact options.

Advertisers content curators and content owners may access user viewing behavior data. Advertisers may access user viewing behavior data such as viewed channels viewed content viewed advertisements advertisement display frequency advertisement viewed length user actions during advertisement display user characteristics advertisement and content view times advertisement and content view counts and hosting channel information to monitor reach and performance of advertising campaigns. Advertisements may be targeted to specific users based on recorded user viewing behavior data. Content curators may access user viewing behavior data to learn about behaviors of end users who subscribe to their channels. Content owners may access user viewing behavior data to learn about their fan base such as accessing information about user demographics time of day of access and user actions during content display. Content presentation and playback may be customized and personalized for a particular end user based specifically on recorded user viewing behavior of the particular end user and generally on recorded user viewing behavior of all users.

User viewing behavior data may be captured for example by a media player and or a downloader device . The media player and or the downloader device may play content included or ordered on a channel defined by a content curator . In some implementations the media player may play content downloaded from the content delivery network by the downloader device . In some implementations the media player and the downloader device are different logical functions of the same physical device. In other implementations the media player and the downloader device are different physical devices. In some implementations the media player is a software application which may be executed for example on a computing device such as a desktop or laptop computer.

The media player and or the downloader device may be connected to external media storage devices respectively. The external media storage devices may be for example USB Universal Serial Bus drives. The external media storage devices may be used for example to transfer data to from the media player or the downloader device respectively such as to transfer data to from a computing device.

The media player and or the downloader device may communicate wirelessly with one or more remote control devices . The end user may navigate through channels and perform other functions using the remote control device . The remote control device may communicate e.g. using Infrared IR technology of radio frequency RF technology with the television the media player and or the downloader device . The remote control device also may communicate over a network with the media player and or the downloader device to control functions of the media player or the downloader device . The remote control device may include a small display screen that displays preview content and or advertisements.

The media player and or the downloader device may download content from the content delivery network without consuming resources of a computing device owned by the end user . For example content may be downloaded into the home of an end user without using resources of a personal computer owned by the end user . The media player and the downloader device may use less electricity than a personal computer thus reducing the electric bill of the end user . The media player and or the downloader device may connect to other computing devices connected on a user s home network. The media player and or the downloader device may include built in functionality to communicate with and download information from a peer to peer network such as the BitTorrent swarm .

The end user may search for and subscribe to content using an end user content search portal . For example the end user content search portal may provide a directory listing of available defined channels. The directory listing may be organized in a hierarchy of categories and sub categories. A particular channel may appear in one or more categories or sub categories. The end user content search portal may also provide a search function to allow end users to search for available defined channels based on a keyword search. As another example users may search for channels based on other criteria such as sorting channels based on channel or content curator popularity or ranking. An end user may subscribe to a defined channel for example by selecting a channel link displayed in a directory listing or in a list of search results.

The end user may also search for and initiate download of individual content items to the downloader device using a partner site such as a BitTorrent search engine . As another example the end user may send an email which includes a content link to an email address associated with their downloader device to initiate an automatic download to the downloader device of the content linked to by the content link. The content link may refer to a content file available on the Internet and may be a reference to a video resource available from a streaming video website. The end user may send an email with an attachment to an email address associated with the downloader device to initiate a download of the attachment to the downloader device . The end user may use an end user content download portal to search for and to select content to download to the downloader device .

The content and directory database stores information about content and also information about defined channels. Content curators may use a content curator portal to define channels and to manage defined channels. The content curator portal may display a listing of licensed and license free content available in the content and directory database . The content curator portal may also provide a search function which allows the content curator to search for content available in the content and directory database and to also search for content available on the Internet such as content available from peer to peer networks such as BitTorrent .

The content curator portal may communicate with a content curator server . For example a channel definition defined using the content curator portal may be sent to the content curator server which may communicate with the server system to request that the channel definition be stored in the content and directory database . As another example information for existing channel definitions associated with a particular content curator may be retrieved from the content and directory database and sent from the content curator portal server to the content curator portal for display.

In some implementations the content curator portal server is one physical server computing device and in other implementations the content curator portal server includes multiple physical server computing devices. Similarly in some implementations the server system is one physical server computing device and in other implantations the server system includes multiple physical server computing devices. In some implementations multiple physical server computing devices are used with some or all server computing devices implementing both the content curator portal server and the server system . In some implementations one physical server computing device is used with the one physical server device implementing both the content curator portal server and the server system .

The network may be one or more public or private wired or wireless networks such as the Internet or may be a Session Initiated Protocol SIP network such as the PsipTN network offered by TelTel . The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data services. The network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway.

Content may be downloaded to one or more user media player downloader devices . For example content corresponding to a user subscribed channel may be automatically downloaded to the media player downloader device in response to a user selection of a corresponding channel. As another example a user may search for and download content to the media player downloader device . A user may using a remote user device monitor and manage user initiated downloads. The remote user device may be any type of electronic device configured to exchange communications with the server system over a network. The remote user device may be a general purpose computer e.g. a desktop personal computer a workstation or a laptop computer a mobile or wireless device or a device designed for a specific function e.g. a cell phone a smart phone a tablet PC a personal digital assistant PDA etc. .

The system receives from a content curator input defining multiple content links to include in a channel associated with the content curator with each content link including an address at which content is made available over a network . For example a content curator may search for and select multiple content links using a content curator portal. The content curator portal may display a listing of content available in a content and directory database. The content curator portal may also provide a search function which allows the content curator to search for content available in the content and directory database and to also search for publicly available content such as content available on the Internet. The content curator may select content links which link to various types of content such as Internet video podcasts BitTorrent content other peer to peer content licensed and license free content music etc. For BitTorrent content the content link may refer to a BitTorrent torrent file. For other content the content link may be a URL. When selecting content links for a channel the content curator may select links that have a characteristic in common such as links relating to the same genre.

The system determines supplemental channel information that facilitates user experience of content linked to by at least one of the multiple content links . Supplemental channel information may include for example one or more hot indices one or more content preview files metadata or content order information. A hot index points or refers to a position of interest within a content file. Supplemental channel information is described in more detail below with respect to .

The system determines one or more hot indices for at least one of the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator . Hot indices are described in more detail below with respect to .

The system enables a content curator to review content linked to by a content link . For example the content curator may review content using a media player application which is capable of playing multiple types of content e.g. various types of video content music content . The media player application may be part of or may be accessed through a content curator portal. The content curator may use the media player application to play the content linked to by the content link as well as to stop fast forward rewind and restart the content. The content may be viewed online e.g. in a streaming format or some or all of the content may be downloaded before viewing by the content curator. Some content may be retrieved from a content and directory database prior to being viewed.

The system receives from the content curator selection of one or more hot indices to define in the content linked to by the content link where each of the one or more hot indices points to a different position within the content linked to by the content link . For example the content curator may play the content linked to by the content link in a media player application and may define a hot index in the content by pausing the content playback when a particular point of interest within the content is reached. While the playback is paused the content curator may for example select a define hot index control of the media player application e.g. button menu to define a hot index at the current e.g. paused position within the content. The content curator may restart playback of the content in the media player application and may define additional hot indices by repeating for each additional hot index a pausing of the playback at a point of interest within the content and a selecting of the define hot index control.

The system stores in association with the content link and for each of the one or more hot indices timing data that indicates the position within the content pointed to by the corresponding hot index . For example timing data for a hot index can include hour minute and second values which collectively indicate the position within the content associated with the hot index. Timing data can include for example values such as 1 02 00 indicating hour one minute two second zero 02 12 30 indicating hour two minute twelve second thirty and 00 05 11 indicating hour zero minute five second eleven . Timing data for each hot index associated with a content link may be stored in association with the content link in a database such as in a content and directory database.

The system monitors users viewing behavior when viewing content linked to by a content link . For example the system may monitor users fast forwarding rewinding stopping playing and other behaviors when viewing content linked to by a particular content link. For example the system may track where in the content a user stops after fast forwarding or may track where in the content a user stops after rewinding. As another example the system may track whether particular portions of content are played e.g. watched multiple times and may track the start and end positions of those content portions that are watched multiple times.

Based on the monitoring the system collects viewing behavior analytics data for the content linked to by the content link . For example based on the monitoring the system may collect fast forwarding rewinding playing and other behavior data for the content linked to by the particular content link where the fast forwarding rewinding and playing behavior data includes data indicating portions of the content where users tend to fast forward the content portions of the content where users tend to rewind the content and portions of the content where users tend to play the content. Portions of content may be indicated for example by a portion start time and a portion end time. Viewing behavior analytics data may be stored in association with the content link. That is data may be stored so that viewing behavior analytics data collected for all users for a particular content link may be retrieved.

The system automatically creates one or more hot indices for the content linked to by the content link based on the viewing behavior analytics data where each of the one or more hot indices points to a different position within the content linked to by the content link . For example the system may automatically create without human intervention one or more hot indices for the content linked to by the particular content link based on the fast forwarding rewinding and playing behavior data. As a particular example a hot index may be created to identify a position within the content where users transition from fast forwarding or rewinding the content to playing the content. For example a hot index may be associated with a position in the content which corresponds to the end of a commercial or to a particularly interesting point within the content such as a sports highlight or a highly interesting scene in a movie.

Hot indices may be created at a particular position for a content link if a certain threshold is reached. For example if viewing behavior analytics data indicate that at least a certain number of users e.g. one thousand or at least a certain percentage of users e.g. five percent stop playback of content linked to by a content link at a particular position then a hot index corresponding to that position might be created. Conversely if less than a certain number or certain percentage of users stop playback of content at a particular position then a hot index corresponding to that position might not be automatically created.

The system stores in association with the content link and for each of the one or more automatically created hot indices timing data that indicates the position within the content pointed to by the corresponding hot index . For example timing data for a hot index can include hour minute and second values which collectively indicate a position within the content associated with the hot index. Timing data for each hot index associated with a content link may be stored in association with the content link in a database such as in a content and directory database.

Returning to the system determines a content preview file to associate with at least one of the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator . A content preview file may be for example a subset of the content file linked to a content link e.g. the first thirty seconds of the content file or the content preview file may be a different file having different content than the content file linked to by the content link. As another example a content preview file may be an image file. Content preview files are discussed in more detail below with respect to .

The system enables a content curator to review content linked to by a content link . For example the content curator may review content using a media player application which is capable of playing multiple types of content e.g. various types of video content music content . The media player application may be part of or may be accessed through a content curator portal. The content curator may use the media player application to play the content linked to by the content link as well as to stop fast forward rewind and restart the content. The content may be viewed online e.g. in a streaming format or some or all of the content may be downloaded before viewing by the content curator. Some content may be retrieved from a content and directory database prior to being viewed.

The system receives from the content curator selection of a subset of the content linked to by the content link . For example the content curator may play e.g. watch the content in a media player application and may define a subset of the content by selecting begin time and end time values which indicate the start and end respectively of the content subset. For example the content curator may watch the content and may stop or pause the content playback when the desired start time of the content subset is reached. The content curator may for example indicate that the position within the content at which the playback was paused is the start time of the content subset by selecting a define start time control e.g. menu button of the media player application. The content curator may fast forward and or resume playback of the content and may pause the content again when the desired end time of the content subset is reached. The content curator may for example indicate that the position within the content at which the playback is paused is the end time of the content subset by selecting a define end time control e.g. button menu of the media player application.

The system generates a content preview file for the content linked to by the content link using the selected subset of the content . For example a new content file may be created by copying a subset of a content file linked to by the content link to a newly created content file. The content curator may create a new content file based on a content subset by using a media player application or another application.

The system stores in association with the content link the generated content preview file . For example the content preview file may be stored as a BLOB data type in a database system or the content preview file may be stored in a folder on the hard drive of a server with a path to the content preview file stored in a database .

In response to input adding a content link to a channel associated with a content curator the system automatically searches for a content preview file corresponding to content linked to by the content link . For instance the system may automatically search for a content preview file in response to the content curator adding a content link to a channel using a content curator portal. As one example for movie content the system may automatically search for movie trailers or recorded movie reviews or interviews corresponding to the movie such as by searching using the title of the movie. If a content preview file associated with the movie content is found e.g. found on the Internet based on a movie title search the content preview file may be downloaded and may be associated with the movie content as a preview content file for the movie content file. As another example for music content the system may automatically search for music sample files or recorded interviews corresponding to the music content.

Based on results of the search the system determines whether a previously generated content preview file exists for the content linked to by the content link . For example the system may determine whether a movie trailer file a music sample file or another type of previously generated content preview file exists for the content.

In response to a determination that a previously generated content preview file exists for the content linked to by the content link the system automatically stores in association with the content link the previously generated content preview file . For example the content preview file may be accessed from a remote server and a copy of the content preview file may be requested and copied to the server system . The copy of the content preview file may be stored as a BLOB data type in a database or the copy of the content preview file may be stored in a file system folder of the server system . As another example a link to the content preview file may be stored in a database e.g. the content preview file itself might not be copied to the server system but may be accessible through a stored link which points at the location of the content preview file on the remote server .

In response to a determination that a previously generated content preview file does not exist for the content linked to by the content link the system prompts the content curator to define a content preview file and or generate a default content preview file . For example the content curator may browse for and select a content preview file stored on a local or remote computing device e.g. the content curator may select a preview content file which was not automatically located in reference to step above . As another example the content curator may input a link e.g. URL to a content preview file available on the Internet. The link may be for example a link to streaming content or a link to a content file.

The content curator may generate a content preview file for the content linked to by the content link. For example the content curator may generate a content preview file by specifying a subset of the content linked to by the content link. For example the content curator may watch e.g. play the content in a media player application and may specify a content subset by specifying start and end times within the content. For example the content curator may watch the content file in the media player application and may pause or stop the content at the desired start time select a control to indicate that the paused time is the subset start time resume playback of the content watch and or fast forward the content until the desired subset end time is reached pause or stop the content and select a control to indicate that the paused time is the desired subset end time. As another example the content curator may define a content subset to be a first portion e.g. the first thirty seconds of the content linked to by the content link. A content preview file may be generated by copying the content subset to a new content file.

The content curator may generate a content subset by combining multiple subsets of the content linked to by the content link. For example the content curator may play the content in a media player application and may define multiple start and end times which define multiple content subsets. The content preview file may be generated for example by creating a new content file and appending each content subset to the newly created content file to create a compilation of content subsets. The content subsets may be appended to the content preview file in the order in which they appear in the content linked to by the content link or the content curator may define an order in which the content subsets are to appear in the preview content file.

The content curator may generate a content preview file by combining content from multiple content files or sources. For example a content curator may create a content preview file by combining any or all of previously existing content preview files subsets of previously existing content preview files subsets of the content linked to by the content link subsets of other content files and other content files.

In some implementations a default content preview file may be automatically generated without human intervention in response to a determination that a previously generated content preview file does not exist for the content linked to by the content link. For example a content preview file which includes the first thirty seconds of content may be automatically generated. The length of an automatically generated content preview file may be based on the type of content. For example for movie content a content preview file which includes the first minute of content may be generated and for music content a content preview file which includes the first thirty seconds of content may be generated. In some implementations a default content preview file may be generated by the content curator such as in response to a prompt and the content curator may specify the length e.g. thirty seconds one minute of the default content preview file.

Returning to the system determines metadata to associate with the channel generally and or with at least one of the multiple content links included in the channel associated with the content curator . For example the content curator may provide metadata information such as a channel name and a channel description using a content curator portal. The content curator may also provide notes and comments for one or more content links e.g. the content curator may include a comment or a description for the content linked to by the content link . Metadata may include among other things the run length of the content user and or critic ratings and reviews of the content e.g. either full text reviews or links to reviews links to one or more websites associated with the content and links to related content. Metadata may also include one or more keywords which describe or are representative of the channel to help facilitate the finding of published channels in an end user search portal.

The system determines order information for arranging the multiple content links in the channel associated with the content curator . For example the content curator may arrange content items using a content curator portal user interface. The user interface may display representations of available content items in an available content area of the user interface and may display a list of representations of content links included in a channel in a channel information area of the user interface. A representation of an available content item or content link may be for example an icon a thumbnail or a textual link. The content curator may arrange the representations of content links in the channel information area to define a desired order of content. For example the content curator may drag and drop or otherwise reorder representations of content links in the channel information area of the user interface. The content curator may drag and drop or otherwise move a representation of an available content item from the available content area to the channel information area placing the available content item in a desired position within the list of content links.

Returning to the system defines channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links and the supplemental channel information . For example referring to the system defines channel information for the channel associated with the content curator based on the multiple content links the one or more hot indices the content preview file the metadata and the order information .

The system publishes the defined channel information at a channel link to make the channel information available to user devices of a content delivery network . For example the defined channel information may be published using RSS Really Simple Syndication or similar technology. The channel link may be made available through an end user content search portal. For example the channel link may appear in one or more directory listings of available channels. The channel link may also be returned as a search result from searches performed through the end user content search portal. Once a user has subscribed to a channel channel information may be downloaded to a media player downloader device of the user. In some implementations channel information is downloaded in response to a user switching to a subscribed channel. In other implementations channel information is downloaded to the media player downloader device in response to the user subscription e.g. possibly before the user views the channel for the first time .

The multiple content curators also define using the multiple content curator portal instances respectively supplemental channel information which includes hot indices respectively and preview content respectively. Supplemental channel information may also include metadata associated with a channel generally and or metadata associated with one or more content links associated with a channel and may also include ordering information for arranging content links associated with a channel. A content curator may define using the respective content curator portal instances channel information for a channel based on the respective content links and based on respective supplemental channel information. Defined channel information may be sent to the content curator portal server and may be stored in a content and directory database in association with information identifying the respective content curator .

Metadata and other supplemental channel information may also be associated with one or more content links. The channel definition includes multiple content links as shown in a table . Each content link includes an address at which content is made available over a content delivery network. Each content link may refer for example to a URL of a content file or to a BitTorrent torrent file. For example the content link refers to the URL http www.broadcasterA.com watch show1 episode4 and the content link refers to the BitTorrent torrent file address of http www.nonprofitA.org download fileB.torrent .

As shown in columns of table each content link may have one or more associated hot indices one or more associated content preview files or associated metadata respectively. Hot indices may be automatically identified based on user viewing behavior data or may be manually identified by a content curator. Each hot index refers to a position within a respective content item e.g. content file . For example the content link has associated hot indices corresponding to positions of one minute twenty seconds three minutes thirty seconds and four minutes thirty seconds within the content linked to by the content link . As another example the content link has one associated hot index corresponding to a position of zero minutes forty seconds within the content linked to by the content link . Some content links such as content link have no associated hot indices.

The content link has an associated content preview file named myChannel1.wmv . Content preview files may be generated automatically e.g. as the first portion of an associated content file may be generated manually by a content curator or may be selected from existing content preview files e.g. a movie trailer . Some content links such as content links and do not have associated content preview files.

Content links may have associated metadata. For example as shown in column the content link has metadata describing the content linked to by the content link . Metadata associated with a content link may be distinguished from metadata which is generally associated with the channel and not specifically associated with a content link such as metadata .

The system determines that one or more modifications to channel information that defines a channel associated with a content curator are needed . For example the system may determine that modifications to one or more content links hot indices content preview files or other supplemental channel information are needed. The system may determine automatically without human intervention that modifications are needed or the system may determine that modifications are needed based on a received input from a content curator. Determining that modifications to channel information are needed is described in more detail below with respect to .

The system receives from the content curator input describing one or more modifications to content links included in the channel associated with the content curator . For example a content curator may add a new content link to a channel may edit an existing content link e.g. update the link address or may delete a content link from a channel. For example illustrates an available content user interface area which displays content which is available to be added to a channel. The user interface may be displayed for example on a content curator portal. The available content user interface displays available content file representations . For example the representations may be icons or thumbnail images.

The available content user interface area may be displayed on a content curator portal along with a channel definition area . The content curator may use the channel definition area to define and or modify a channel definition. For example the channel definition area is displaying a channel definition for a channel named DJ s Channel . To add a new content link to a channel the content curator may drag an available file representation and drop it onto a content links area of the channel definition area . The content links area includes representations of content links which are currently included in the channel. The content curator may for example drag the representation of a File 3 content item and drop it onto the content links area between the representations and as illustrated by a dashed line representation . The dragging and dropping of the representation results in the adding of a new content link to the channel and also in a modification of the positions of the content links currently in the channel. The content curator may select a representation to delete or to modify an existing content link.

Returning to the system receives from the content curator input describing one or more modifications to supplemental channel information related to the channel associated with the content curator . For example the content curator may add edit or delete one or more hot indices preview content files or metadata for a channel or the content curator may reorder content links for a channel. For example and as illustrated in the content curator may use a hot index area of the channel definition user interface area to add a new hot index for a File 3 content link to delete a hot index for a File A content link or to edit a hot index for a File D content link.

As another example the content curator may use a preview file area to add a new content preview file e.g. corresponding to representation for the File A content link or to delete a content preview file e.g. corresponding to representation for the File B content link. In some implementations the content curator portal allows a content curator to edit an existing content preview file e.g. to edit a video audio or image file . In other implementations to effectively edit an existing content preview file the content curator may delete the existing content preview and add a new content preview file which includes the desired changes.

Returning to the system determines that one or more modifications to the channel information that defines the channel associated with the content curator are needed based on the received input . For instance in the example of FIG. the system may determine that one or more modifications to the DJ s Channel channel are needed based on the content curator interacting with the channel definition user interface area .

The system monitors aspects of the channel associated with the content curator . For example the system may monitor without human intervention aspects of content links and supplemental channel information associated with the channel. The system may automatically detect aspects of the channel such as broken or changed content links newly created hot indices and newly available content preview files. Monitoring aspects of content links and supplemental channel information is described in more detail below with respect to .

The system may automatically detect for example that the content link for File A e.g. corresponding to representation is a broken link e.g. that File A is no longer accessible at the specified content link . The system may also detect for example that the content link for File C e.g. corresponding to representation has changed e.g. that the File C is still accessible but is accessible at a different link address . As another example the system may determine that a new hot index has been automatically generated for File C based on viewer behavior analytics. For example automatic monitoring of user viewing behavior may have determined that users frequently stop rewinding the File C content at a position of 5 30 and the system may determine that a new hot index corresponding to position of File C has been created. As yet another example of automatic monitoring of channel aspects the system may detect that a new content preview file is available for File B e.g. the content link corresponding to representation . For example File B may be movie content and a new movie trailer may have been made available and discovered by the system .

Returning to based on the monitoring the system automatically determines that one or more modifications to content links included in the channel associated with the content curator are needed . For instance in the example of the system may determine that a deletion modification of the content link associated with representation is needed based on the detection of a broken link for File A . As another example the system may determine that an update link modification is needed for the content link associated with representation based on the detection of the modified link for File C .

Based on the monitoring the system automatically determines that one or more modifications to supplemental channel information related to the channel associated with the content curator are needed . For instance in the example of the system may determine that an add hot index modification is needed based on the determination that a new hot index has been created for File C . As another example the system may determine that an add content preview file modification is needed based on the detected availability of a new content preview file for File B .

Returning to the system identifies updated channel information that defines updates to the channel information needed to make the one or more modifications . For instance in the example of the system may identify the newly added content link for File 3 associated with the representation the newly added content preview file for File A the newly added hot index for File 3 the deletion of the hot index for File A the modification of the hot index for File D and the deletion of the content preview file for File B . In the example of the system may identify the delete link modification the update link modification the add hot index modification and the add new content preview file modification . The updated channel information may include only the information related to the channel that has changed.

The system publishes the updated channel information at a channel link for the channel such that subscribers to the channel receive the updated channel information . For example the updated channel information may be published using RSS or similar technology. Updated channel information may be automatically downloaded to media player downloader devices of users who have subscribed to the channel. Downloaded channel information for an update may include only information related to modified channel information e.g. downloaded channel information for an update may not include information for channel information that has not changed .

A user may receive an update message subsequent to a media player downloader device receiving updated channel information. For instance in the example of channel lists for users one two and N respectively each include the DJ s Channel channel as shown by channel indicators which the content curator modified using the user interface . In response to the modifications to the channel updated channel information may be downloaded to the media player downloader devices for user one user two and user N . Each of the users one two and N may see an update message the next time they use their media player downloader device which indicates that DJ s Channel has been updated.

Whether a user sees update messages or other update indicators may depend on whether a user has already watched content related to channel updates. For instance in the example of the DJ s Channel channel has current content associated with File A File 3 File B File C and File D with the File 3 content recently added. Suppose that user one has already watched the File A File B File C and File D content. An updated content list for the DJ s Channel channel for user one shows a single representation corresponding to the recently added File 3 content. The representation is highlighted e.g. with a dashed line to indicate that it represents newly added content. User one does not receive notification related to the new hot index associated with the File C content or the new content preview file associated with the File A content since user one has already watched the File C and File A content.

Although user one has watched File A File B and File C those content files may or may not be deleted from the media player downloader device associated with user one. For example the content list may be a content list which shows unwatched shows for the associated channel. In general in some implementations a content file may be deleted after a user has finished viewing the content file possibly based on a user preference . In some implementations a content file may be deleted after being viewed and after the content expires. In other implementations content files are deleted only if a user issues an explicit request to delete a content file.

Suppose that user two has not watched any of the File A File B File C or File D content. After receiving updated channel information a content list for user two may display representations for the File A File 3 File B and File C content respectively. A representation for the File D content may be available for example by scrolling. The representation for the File 3 content is highlighted to indicate that it represents newly added content. A representation of a recently added preview file for File A and a representation of a recently added hot index for File C may appear highlighted to indicate that the corresponding supplemental channel information is new.

As another example suppose that user N has watched File A but has not watched File B File C or File D . A content list for user N may include representations corresponding to the File 3 File B File C and File D content respectively. The representation for the File 3 content is highlighted to indicate that it represents newly added content. The channel list does not include a representation for File A or a notification of the new content preview file for File A since user N has already watched File A . A representation for the recently added hot index for File C is highlighted to indicate that the corresponding hot index is new.

A user may also be updated in response to updates to channel information which are automatically determined e.g. in contrast to channel information updates initiated by a content curator . For instance in the example of channel lists for users one two and N respectively each include the DJ s Channel channel as shown by channel indicators . Assume that modifications have been previously automatically determined based on monitoring of aspects of the channel. In response to the modifications updated channel information may be downloaded to the media player downloader devices for user one user two and user N . The users two and N may see an update message the next time they use their media player downloader device which indicates that DJ s Channel has been updated.

Suppose similar to the user one user two and user N viewing behavior in the example of that user one has already watched the File A File B File C and File D content a content list for user one is correspondingly empty . In such a scenario user one might not see the update message or see any notifications related to the modifications since the updates are applicable to content that user one has already seen. Also in some examples update messages may generally be displayed only if certain types of updates occur e.g. new or deleted content links and may not be shown if only certain other types of updates occur e.g. if the only types of updates that have occurred are modifications to supplemental channel information update messages might not be displayed .

Suppose in the example of that prior to the updates that user two has watched the File D content but has not watched any of the File A File B or File C content. A content list may correspondingly display representations and for the File B and File C content respectively. A representation for File A is not shown due to the modification . The representation for File C might not be highlighted despite the update link modification . For example the update link modification might not be deemed of interest to the user e.g. the File C content is still available and the user may not be interested in the fact that the link is available at a different link address . A representation of a recently added preview file for File B e.g. corresponding to modification and a representation of a recently added hot index for File C e.g. corresponding to modification may appear highlighted to indicate that the corresponding supplemental channel information is new. Similarly representations and corresponding to the recently added preview file for File B e.g. modification and the recently added hot index for File C e.g. modification may appear highlighted in a content list for user N . The content list does not include a representation for File A due to modification .

As another example of defining a channel in some implementations a first user may subscribe to a channel associated with a second user. For example the second user may send a content item or a link to a content item to the first user such as by sending an electronic communication e.g. email addressed to a communications address associated with the media player downloader device of the first user. In response to receiving an electronic communication from the second user the media player downloader device of the first user or as other examples a server device or a remote control device associated with the first user may extract the content from the communication e.g. by downloading content through a link included in the communication extracting content attached to the communication or downloading content using download information e.g. a BitTorrent torrent file included in the communication to name a few examples .

After content has been extracted the content may be organized in a channel associated with the second user. The first user may watch the content items received from the second user in a manner similar to watching content files included on a channel defined by a content curator. In some implementations the second user in this example is a content curator. In some implementations the second user is not a defined content curator but is a regular user who has subscribed to the system. For example the first user and second user may be friends or may belong to the same family. For example a first user sending content to a second user with the received content being organized into a channel for the second user may be a convenient way for the second user to share content with the first user and possibly with other users e.g. the second user may send electronic communication to a group of users .

The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

