---

title: User profile selection using contextual authentication
abstract: In embodiments, apparatuses, methods and storage media (transitory and non-transitory) are described that are associated with user profile selection using contextual authentication. In various embodiments, a first user of a computing device may be authenticated and have an access control state corresponding to a first user profile established, the computing device may select a second user profile based at least in part a changed user characteristic, and the computing device may present a resource based at least in part on the second user profile. In various embodiments, the computing device may include a sensor and a user profile may be selected based at least in part on an output of the sensor and a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628477&OS=09628477&RS=09628477
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09628477
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141223
---
The present disclosure relates to the field of data processing in particular to presentation of resource e.g. content based at least in part on a user profile selected by contextual authentication.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Some computing devices such as tablet computers are dynamically shared between multiple users. User profiles allow each user to have a more personalized user experience by allowing each user to have their own set of applications social logins bookmarks and data. They can also be used to create guest profiles allowing others to borrow a device without worrying about application or social login conflicts and data privacy. Profiles can also be used to restrict content for use by children to allow parental control of browsing application usage and in app purchasing. User profiles typically require additional active user input to switch from one profile to another which interrupts the flow of the user experience by requiring extra interaction from the user as they pick a profile to load and or provide active authentication information such as a password.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete actions or operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations may not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous.

As used herein the term logic and module may refer to be part of or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and or memory shared dedicated or group that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality. The term module may refer to software firmware and or circuitry that is are configured to perform or cause the performance of one or more operations consistent with the present disclosure. Software may be embodied as a software package code instructions instruction sets and or data recorded on non transitory computer readable storage mediums. Firmware may be embodied as code instructions or instruction sets and or data that are hard coded e.g. nonvolatile in memory devices. Circuitry as used in any embodiment herein may comprise for example singly or in any combination hardwired circuitry programmable circuitry such as computer processors comprising one or more individual instruction processing cores state machine circuitry software and or firmware that stores instructions executed by programmable circuitry. The modules may collectively or individually be embodied as circuitry that forms a part of a computing device. As used herein the term processor may be a processor core.

Referring now to a computing device incorporated with the resource presentation teaching of the present disclosure in accordance with various embodiments is illustrated. As shown computing device may include a number of components including shared application and trusted execution environment TEE configured to cooperate with each other to select a user profile using contextual authentication and enable resources such as contents to be selectively consumed viewed modified or deleted by a logged in user and or a delegate user based at least in part on the selected user profile alternatingly with ease. In embodiments computing device may include one or more processors or processor cores system memory a display and a sensor layer including a sensor hub that may be coupled together and configured to cooperate with each other. The display may be a touch sensitive display that also serves as an input device in various embodiments. For purposes of this application including the claims the terms processor and processor cores may be considered synonymous unless the context clearly requires otherwise. In embodiments the sensor layer may include one or more sensor devices an input output IO subsystem having IO controllers internet protocol IP blocks and control logic. In embodiments as shown the computing device may also include one or more chipsets one or more execution environments and one or more trusted execution environments TEE . The sensor layer may include trusted IO technology that hardens the IO path between the sensor hub and or sensor devices and the TEE .

Generally a TEE is a secure environment that may run alongside an operating system and which can provide secure services to that operating system. More information regarding TEEs and the implementation thereof may be found in the TEE client application programming interface API specification v1.0 the TEE internal API application programming interface specification v1.0 and the TEE system architecture v1.0 issued by GlobalPlatform. In some embodiments the devices described herein may include a TEE provided using one or more of virtualization technology enhanced memory page protection CPU cache as memory page protection security co processor technology and combinations thereof. Non limiting examples of such technology include INTEL VT x virtualization technology INTEL VT d virtualization technology INTEL trusted execution technology TXT Xeon internet security and acceleration ISA cache as RAM converged security engine CSE technology converged security and manageability engine CSME technology a security co processor manageability engine trusted platform module platform trust technology ARM TRUSTZONE technology combinations thereof and the like. The nature advantages and limitations of each of these technologies are well understood and are therefore not described herein.

In various embodiments the sensor hub may be in signal communication with a motion sensor a fingerprint sensor a Bluetooth transceiver a microphone a wireless fidelity WiFi transceiver a speaker a camera an ultrasonic sensor and one or more other sensors or input devices . In embodiments the camera may be a video camera. The motion sensor may include an accelerometer or gyroscope in various embodiments. The WiFi transceiver may operate according to at least one of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards and the Bluetooth transceiver may operate according to at least one of the standards defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group in various embodiments.

In embodiments the execution environment may include an operating system OS earlier described shared application and one or more modules . The execution environment may also include storage for various variables and resources. The earlier described TEE may include secure modules and data in various embodiments. The shared application and operating system may in cooperation with secure modules enforce respective access rights simultaneously for a plurality of users. In embodiments a continuous passively authenticated context may be maintained for each of the plurality of users.

In embodiments the computing device may be in data communication with a local server a remote content server such as a media server or a social network server over a network by communicating with a wireless router using the WiFi transceiver . The shared application may have access to resources that may be consumed viewed modified or deleted by a logged in user and or a delegate user. The resources may include local resources stored on the computing device or resources served or streamed by the local server the media server or the social network in various embodiments. The resources may include other types of resources not shown in embodiments. The logged in user may access the resources with a first set of resource access rights while a second delegate user may access the resources with a different set of access rights.

In various embodiments the computing device may be a shared device such as a tablet computing device that may be used e.g. by a first user a second user or a third user . In embodiments one or more of the users may have a Bluetooth enabled device which may e.g. be a wearable device on the first user .

Referring now to components of the execution environment and TEE are illustrated in further details in accordance with various embodiments. The modules of the execution environment may include a login module an access control module and a presentation module . The secure modules of the TEE may include a contextual authentication module that includes a sensor processing module a profile selection module and a classifier module . In various embodiments the classifier module may classify data based on sensor output application usage patterns or user interface interaction patterns in a manner such that the data may be associated with particular users and the classifications of particular sensor data patterns application usage patterns or user interface interaction patterns may be considered to be user characteristics such that when a user characteristic changes it may be inferred that a user of the computing device has changed. The classifier module may be a machine learning classifier in various embodiments. Embodiments may also include a user proximity module as a part of the secure modules in the TEE . Together these modules and may cooperate with each other to enable the shared application and operating system to enforce respective access rights simultaneously for the plurality of users including continuous maintenance of a passively authenticated context for each of the plurality of users.

In embodiments the data stored in the TEE may include a first user profile a second user profile a third user profile a first delegate profile a second delegate profile or one or more additional profiles in various embodiments. User profiles are a way for users to have a more personalized and streamlined user experience. Profiles allow users to have their own set of applications social logins bookmarks and data in one easily accessible and private place. They may be used to create guest profiles allowing others to borrow a device without worrying about application or social login conflicts and data privacy. Profiles may also be used to restrict content for use by children to allow parental control of browsing application usage and in app purchasing. In embodiments automatic device state based profile settings may be applied on a per application and a per service basis. For example the contextual authentication module may distinguish user one using social networking application A hosted by social network server users two and three using video streaming service B hosted by media server etc. and manage specific profiles for each. In embodiments this automatic management of specific profiles may be combined with machine learning of user characteristics interactions or behaviors during shared and or single user sessions to tune the profile controlled behavior for the applications and services to the user or combination of users. Preferences may be inferred for combinations of users applications and services from other profiles that involve those users applications or services in various embodiments.

The data may also include user characteristics templates such as a first template a second template or a third template . In embodiments the user characteristics templates are based on biometric or behaviometric data generated by a machine learning classifier. In various embodiments the user characteristics templates may be included as a part of the user profiles. For example the first user profile may contain the first template the second user profile may contain the second template and or the third user profile may contain the third template in embodiments. The data may also include a user focus identifier in various embodiments.

In embodiments a biometrics and or behaviometrics machine learning ML classifier or set of classifiers may generate reference sample data suitable for establishing a user identity. In various embodiments the reference sample data may be generated during a training process and stored as a biometric and or behaviometric template such as templates or . The user characteristics templates may be generated and stored by the classifier module during a training process for example. During the training process the classifier module may use machine learning to associate biometric user characteristics such as hand movement gait or image patterns based at least in part on sensor data with particular users. Biometric characteristics based on hand movement may be based at least in part on accelerometers or gyroscopes detecting relatively imperceptible movements and characteristics based on gait may be based at least in part on accelerometers or gyroscopes detecting walking characteristics in various embodiments. The classifier module may also use machine learning to associate behaviometric user characteristics such as application usage patterns or user interface interaction patterns with particular users. Alternatively the user characteristics templates may be generated and stored by other modules or generated by a different computing device and stored on the computing device in other embodiments.

In various embodiments the login module may be operated by the one or more processors to authenticate a user of the computing device . In embodiments an active authentication factor such as a thumbprint reading using the fingerprint sensor may be used. The access control module may be operated to establish an access control state corresponding to a user profile associated with the authenticated user. For example if the login module authenticates the first user a first access control state corresponding to the first user profile associated with the first user may be established by the access control module . The presentation module operated by the one or more processors may present a resource to the authenticated user based at least in part on the established access control state.

The contextual authentication module may be operated by the one or more processors to detect a user interaction change associated with the computing device that indicates a different user such as the second user has device focus. The user interaction change may include a change in biometric or behaviometric characteristics determined by processing sensor data or application or user interface usage data in various embodiments for example. The contextual authentication module may continuously monitor passive authentication factors to detect user characteristics as the computing device is being used such that when a change in user characteristics is detected indicating the computing device is being used by a different user a user profile may be assigned that corresponds to the current rather than the previous user or alternatively corresponds to a delegate profile of the previous user that may also be based at least in part upon the current user. The sensor processing module may process a sensor output from the motion sensor and generate the user focus identifier indicating the second user has device focus for example. The profile selection module may be operated by the one or more processors to select the second user profile based on the user focus identifier and the second template . In embodiments the contextual authentication module may include a biometrics and or behaviometrics ML classifier or set of classifiers as a part of the classifier module that generate sample data suitable for establishing a user identity based at least in part on user characteristics.

Reference sample data such as may be stored in templates or may be used to compare with the sampled data to determine a user match. This may include a match of a first user a second user or both users for example. The contextual authentication module may also include a first user focus context classifier and a second user focus context classifier that determines when a user has device focus. Device focus may be established when a user is observing content on a display or other content rendering device or when the user is inputting data through an input device such as a computer keyboard mouse microphone or camera. The user focus classifiers may establish to the OS which user is logged in and which user is a delegate of the first.

In various embodiments the user proximity module may be operated by the one or more processors to determine a proximity status associated with the currently logged in user such as the first user after the user interaction change associated with the computing device that indicates a different user has device focus is detected by the contextual authentication module . The access control module may be operated by the one or more processors to terminate the second access control state if the proximity status reaches a predetermined value. The predetermined value may correspond to an approximate distance such as greater than thirty feet for example. Other distances may also be used. An approximate distance of a user from the computing device may be determined using power levels associated with a received signal strength indicator RSSI or by using a geographic positioning system GPS location for example. In embodiments the user proximity module may detect a proximity status regardless of whether a user interaction change has been detected.

Referring now to various embodiments of a computing device may include a host system on a chip SOC in data communication with a contextual authentication technology CAT system operating in a TEE. The host SOC may include a processor or processing cores memory graphics virtualization and other capabilities suitable for hosting an operating system OS and applications. In embodiments some or all elements of SOC may be implemented as separate components rather than being integrated on a SOC. The CAT system may be in signal communication with a sensor layer .

In embodiments the sensor layer may include a sensor hub one or more sensor devices an input output IO subsystem that may include IO controllers internet protocol IP blocks and control logic. The sensor layer may also include trusted IO technology that hardens the IO path between the sensor hub and or sensor devices and a TEE subsystem. Sensor devices may employ a variety of sensing technology and may include a video camera a microphone an ultrasonic sensor a multi axis motion sensor a wireless radio and an RFID sensing device in various embodiments. Additional or alternative sensors may also be included in embodiments.

In various embodiments the CAT system may be implemented in a TEE and be in data communication with one or more user profiles . Hosting the CAT system in a TEE may provide additional protection against malware attacks that may exist on the host system OS or applications. The CAT system may include biometric and or behaviometric machine learning ML classifiers that may be used to generate sample data suitable for establishing a user identity based at least in part on user characteristics such as biometric or behaviometric information. Reference sample data based at least in part on user characteristics and stored in the user profiles may be used to compare with the generated sample data to determine a match of a first user a second user or both users. The CAT system may also include a first user focus context classifier and a second user focus context classifier that may determine when a user has device focus. Device focus may be established when a user is observing content on a display or other content rendering device or when a user is inputting data through an input device such as a computer keyboard mouse microphone or camera. The user focus context classifiers may establish to the OS which user is logged in and which user is a delegate of the other. In embodiments the biometric and or behaviometric ML classifiers the first user focus context classifier and the second user focus context classifier may be included as a part of the contextual authentication module as discussed with respect to .

In various embodiments the computing device may be a tablet computing device and as a user picks up the computing device the CAT system employs one or more sensors in combination with the ML classifiers to determine who is attempting to use the computing device . When the user is authenticated the CAT system may access the relevant user profile. If an unknown user is detected or the CAT system cannot detect a particular user with a predetermined confidence level the CAT system may offer access to a guest profile.

The host SOC may host an OS that may allow operation based on user profiles indicated in as a logged in user and a delegate user . The host SOC may host a shared application that allows for varying access to one or more resources based on access rules such as first user access rules and second user access rules . The shared application may have access to resources that may be consumed viewed modified deleted by a logged in user or by a delegate user. A first user and a second user may share the computing device and each have a user profile stored with the user profiles as well as a biometric or behaviometric classifier stored with the classifiers . The shared application and the operating system may enforce the first user access rules and the second user access rules for the first user and the second user . The CAT system may maintain a continuous authenticated context for both the first and second users using passive authentication based at least in part on user characteristics such as biometric or behaviometric information rather than requiring an active authentication factor for every user switch. The logged in user may access the resources with a set of resource access rights while the delegate user may access the resources with a different set of access rights. In various embodiments some or all of the components of the computing device may be included as a part of the computing device described with respect to .

At operation the computing device may monitor passive authentication factors in a continuous manner. This may be performed by the sensor processing module of the contextual authentication module monitoring the motion sensor and the classifier module generating biometric or behaviometric sample data based at least in part on output from the motion sensor for example. Multiple sensors may be monitored in embodiments or behavioral factors may be used instead of or in addition to biometric factors. Passive authentication factors may include any combination of biometric or behaviometric authentication factors in various embodiments. For example in embodiments biometric authentication factors may include without limitation hand movement or gait characteristics based at least in part on motion sensor data image patterns based at least in part on camera data or user characteristics based at least in part on ultrasonic or infrared sensor data. Behaviometric authentication factors may include without limitation patterns of application usage or patterns of user interface interaction in various embodiments.

At a decision block it may be determined whether the first user is observed. This may be performed by the profile selection module comparing biometric data generated by the classifier module or the biometric ML classifier at least partially based on information from the motion sensor or to reference data stored in the template for example. The sample and reference biometric or behaviometric data compared by the profile selection module may be based at least in part on any combination of sensor data or behavioral patterns in various embodiments and is not limited to information from the motion sensor or .

If the first user is observed it may be determined at a decision block whether a second user is observed. This may be performed by the profile selection module comparing biometric data generated by the classifier module or the biometric ML classifier to reference data stored in the second template and the third template for example. If a second user is observed delegate user rights may be assigned to a second user context at a block in various embodiments. This may be performed by the profile selection module selecting the first delegate profile based at least in part on the reference data in the second template and biometric data generated by the biometric ML classifier for example. The second user may then be able to consume one or more resources based at least in part on the assigned delegate user rights in various embodiments. Resource access rights may overlap between a logged in user and a delegate of the logged in user to support resource sharing e.g. both may view a common display while consuming content . However differential rights may also be enforced in some cases such as a delegate user may not be able to modify a file while having an input focus whereas a logged in user may be able to modify a file while having input focus for example. If at the decision block a second observer was not observed the process may loop back to the operation such that the monitoring of passive authentication factors continues.

In embodiments if at the decision block the first user is not observed it may be determined at a decision block whether a second user is observed. If a second user is observed at the decision block the first user access rights may be rescinded at a block . This may be performed by the access control module based at least in part on data from the profile selection module for example. The block may also include logging in the second user and assigning user rights corresponding to a user profile associated with the second user. This may involve an active authentication factor such as a thumbprint presented at the fingerprint sensor in embodiments. The second user may then at a block logically become the first user for purposes of the logic of the process . In embodiments if at the decision block a second user is not observed first and second user rights may be rescinded at a block . This may be performed by the access control module in embodiments. The process may end at a block after the first and second user access rights are rescinded. Although not shown in embodiments the process may proceed to a state following the end block where the system monitors for active authentication factors such as a thumbprint or a password as may occur if the process returned to the start block for example.

At operation a second user profile may be selected that indicates a different user such as the second user has device focus. In various embodiments selecting the second user profile may include detecting a user characteristic change at a block and selecting a second user profile at a block based at least in part on the detected user characteristic change. Selecting the second user profile at the block may also be based at least in part on the first user profile such that the second user profile may be a delegate profile relating to the first user profile.

In embodiments detecting a user characteristic change at the block may include monitoring one or more sensors such as the motion sensor the microphone the camera or the ultrasonic sensor for example. Detecting a user characteristic change may further include receiving a sensor output such as from the motion sensor at a block and classifying the output such as with the classifier module to determine whether characteristics such as biometric or behaviometric characteristics of the current user have changed. A In embodiments a movement of the computing device or may be detected that indicates the computing device has been picked up or has been passed from one person to another as a part of detecting a user characteristic change at the block .

Selecting a second user profile at the block may also be based at least in part on the sensor output and a previously stored template based at least in part on biometric information associated with the second user the template generated by a machine learning classifier. The template may include biometric reference sample data such as that described with respect to template that may be generated by the classifier module during a training process for example. In embodiments receiving the sensor output may be performed by the sensor processing module and selecting the user profile may be performed by the profile selection module for example. At a block a second access control state based at least in part on the second user profile may be established. This may be performed by the access control module for example. In embodiments the second access control state may be based at least in part on a delegate user profile.

In various embodiments a proximity status associated with the first user may be determined at a block after establishing the second access control state. This may be performed by the user proximity module based at least in part on information received from the Bluetooth enabled device received by the sensor processing module for example. At a decision block it may be determined whether the proximity status has reached a predetermined value. For example it may be determined whether the proximity status has reached a level corresponding to greater than approximately 30 feet away from the computing device . If at the decision block it is determined that the proximity status has not reached the predetermined value a resource may be presented at a block based at least in part on the second access control state. If at the decision block it is determined that the proximity status has reached the predetermined value the second access state may be terminated at a block .

Referring now to an example computer suitable to practice the present disclosure as earlier described with reference to is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments. As shown computer may include one or more processors or processor cores and system memory . For the purpose of this application including the claims the terms processor and processor cores may be considered synonymous unless the context clearly requires otherwise. Additionally computer may include one or more graphics processors mass storage devices such as diskette hard drive compact disc read only memory CD ROM and so forth input output devices such as display keyboard cursor control remote control gaming controller image capture device and so forth sensor hub that may function in a similar manner as that described with respect to sensor hub of and communication interfaces such as network interface cards modems infrared receivers radio receivers e.g. Bluetooth and so forth . The elements may be coupled to each other via system bus which may represent one or more buses. In the case of multiple buses they may be bridged by one or more bus bridges not shown .

Each of these elements may perform its conventional functions known in the art. In particular system memory and mass storage devices may be employed to store a working copy and a permanent copy of the programming instructions implementing the operations associated with the computing device or the computing device e.g. operations described for modules and shown in or operations shown in process of or process of collectively denoted as computational logic . The system memory and mass storage devices may also be employed to store a working copy and a permanent copy of the programming instructions implementing the operations associated with the OS the application the OS and the application . The system memory and mass storage devices may also be employed to store the data the local resources the user profiles and the resources . The various elements may be implemented by assembler instructions supported by processor s or high level languages such as for example C that can be compiled into such instructions.

The permanent copy of the programming instructions may be placed into mass storage devices in the factory or in the field through for example a distribution medium not shown such as a compact disc CD or through communication interface from a distribution server not shown . That is one or more distribution media having an implementation of the agent program may be employed to distribute the agent and program various computing devices.

The number capability and or capacity of these elements may vary depending on whether computer is a stationary computing device such as a set top box or desktop computer or a mobile computing device such as a tablet computing device laptop computer or smartphone. Their constitutions are otherwise known and accordingly will not be further described.

Referring back to for an embodiment at least one of processors may be packaged together with memory having computational logic configured to practice aspects described for modules and shown in or operations of process or or process of . For an embodiment at least one of processors may be packaged together with memory having computational logic configured to practice aspects described for modules and shown in or operations of process of or process of to form a System in Package SiP . For an embodiment at least one of processors may be integrated on the same die with memory having computational logic configured to practice aspects described for modules and shown in or operations of process of or process of . For an embodiment at least one of processors may be packaged together with memory having computational logic configured to practice aspects of process of or process of to form a System on Chip SoC . For at least one embodiment the SoC may be utilized in e.g. but not limited to a mobile computing device such as a computing tablet and or a smartphone.

Machine readable media including non transitory machine readable media such as machine readable storage media methods systems and devices for performing the above described techniques are illustrative examples of embodiments disclosed herein. Additionally other devices in the above described interactions may be configured to perform various disclosed techniques.

Example 1 may include a computing device comprising one or more processors a memory coupled with the one or more processors a login module operated by the one or more processors to authenticate a first user of the device and establish a first access control state corresponding to a first user profile associated with the first user a contextual authentication module operated by the one or more processors to select a second user profile based at least in part on a changed user characteristic and a presentation module operated by the one or more processors to present a resource based at least in part on the second user profile.

Example 2 may include the subject matter of Example 1 wherein the computing device further comprises a sensor and wherein the contextual authentication module comprises a profile selection module operated by the one or more processors to select the second user profile based at least in part on an output of the sensor and a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.

Example 3 may include the subject matter of Example 2 wherein the sensor is a motion sensor and wherein the profile selection module comprises a biometric machine learning classifier wherein the profile selection module is to perform a biometric information classification of the output of the sensor and select the second user profile based at least in part on the biometric information classification and the previously stored template.

Example 4 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 3 wherein the login module is to authenticate the first user of the device based at least in part on an active authentication factor.

Example 5 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 4 wherein the computing device further comprises an access control module operated by the one or more processors to establish a second access control state based at least in part on the second user profile and a user proximity module operated by the one or more processors to determine a proximity status associated with the first user wherein the access control module is operated by the one or more processors to terminate the second access control state if the proximity status reaches a predetermined value.

Example 6 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 5 wherein the computing device further comprises a trusted execution environment operated by one of the processors to host operation of the contextual authentication module.

Example 7 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 6 wherein the contextual authentication module is operated by the one or more processor to select a delegate profile as the second user profile.

Example 8 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 5 wherein the computing device is a tablet computing device wherein the contextual authentication module comprises a profile selection module operated by the one or more processors in a trusted execution environment to select a second user profile based at least in part on a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.

Example 9 may include a computer implemented method comprising authenticating by a computing device a first user of the device establishing by the computing device a first access control state corresponding to a first user profile associated with the first user selecting by the computing device a second user profile based at least in part on a changed user characteristic and presenting by the computing device a resource based at least in part on the second user profile.

Example 10 may include the subject matter of Example 9 wherein selecting by the computing device the second user profile comprises receiving by the computing device a sensor output performing a classification of the sensor output to generate sample data and selecting by the computing device the second user profile based at least in part on the sample data and a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.

Example 11 may include the subject matter of Example 10 wherein receiving comprises receiving a sensor output from a motion sensor wherein performing comprises performing a biometric classification of the motion sensor output to generate biometric sample data and wherein selecting comprises selecting the second user profile based at least in part on the biometric sample data and a previously stored biometric template generated by a biometric machine learning classifier.

Example 12 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 9 11 wherein authenticating by the computing device the first user of the device is based at least in part on an active authentication factor.

Example 13 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 9 12 further comprising establishing by the computing device a second access control state based at least in part on the second user profile determining by the computing device a proximity status associated with the first user and terminating by the computing device the second access control state if the proximity status reaches a predetermined value.

Example 14 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 9 13 wherein selecting by the computing device the second user profile based at least in part on the changed user characteristic is performed in a trusted execution environment.

Example 15 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 9 14 wherein the second user profile is a delegate profile.

Example 16 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 9 13 wherein the computing device is a tablet computing device wherein selecting by the computing device the second user profile based at least in part on the changed user characteristic comprises selecting in a trusted execution environment by the computing device a second user profile based at least in part on a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.

Example 17 may include at least one non transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions stored thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by a computing device cause the computing device to authenticate a first user of the device establish a first access control state corresponding to a first user profile associated with the first user select a second user profile based at least in part on a changed user characteristic and present a resource based at least in part on the second user profile.

Example 18 may include the subject matter of Example 17 wherein to select the second user profile the computing device is caused to perform a classification of a sensor output to generate sample data and select a second user profile based at least in part on the sample data and a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.

Example 19 may include the subject matter of Example 18 wherein the computing device is caused to perform a biometric classification of a motion sensor output to generate biometric sample data and wherein the computing device is caused to select the second user profile based at least in part on the biometric sample data and a previously stored biometric template generated by a biometric machine learning classifier.

Example 20 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 17 19 wherein the computing device is caused to authenticate the first user of the device based at least in part on an active authentication factor.

Example may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 17 20 wherein the computing device is further caused to establish a second access control state based at least in part on the second user profile determine a proximity status associated with the first user and terminate the second access control state if the proximity status reaches a predetermined value.

Example may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 17 21 wherein the computing device is further caused to select the second user profile in a trusted execution environment.

Example 23 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 17 22 wherein the computing device is further caused to select a delegate profile as the second user profile.

Example 24 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 17 21 wherein the computing device is a tablet computing device wherein the tablet computing device is caused to select the second user profile in a trusted execution environment of the tablet computing device based at least in part on a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.

Example 25 may include a computing device comprising means for authenticating a first user of the device means for establishing a first access control state corresponding to a first user profile associated with the first user means for selecting a second user profile based at least in part on a changed user characteristic and means for presenting a resource based at least in part on the second user profile.

Example 26 may include the subject matter of Example 25 wherein the means for selecting the second user profile comprises means for receiving a sensor output means for performing a classification of the sensor output to generate sample data and means for selecting the second user profile based at least in part on the sample data and a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.

Example 27 may include the subject matter of Example 26 wherein the means for receiving comprises means for receiving a sensor output from a motion sensor wherein the means for performing comprises means for performing a biometric classification of the motion sensor output to generate biometric sample data and wherein the means for selecting comprises means for selecting the second user profile based at least in part on the biometric sample data and a previously stored biometric template generated by a biometric machine learning classifier.

Example 28 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 25 27 wherein the means for authenticating the first user of the device is based at least in part on an active authentication factor.

Example 29 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 25 28 further comprising means for establishing a second access control state based at least in part on the second user profile means for determining a proximity status associated with the first user and means for terminating the second access control state if the proximity status reaches a predetermined value.

Example 30 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 25 29 wherein the means for selecting the second user profile based at least in part on the changed user characteristic is in a trusted execution environment.

Example 31 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 25 30 wherein the second user profile is a delegate profile.

Example 32 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 25 29 wherein the computing device is a tablet computing device wherein the means for selecting the second user profile based at least in part on the changed user characteristic comprises means for selecting in a trusted execution environment a second user profile based at least in part on a previously stored template generated by a machine learning classifier.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments described herein be limited only by the claims.

Where the disclosure recites a or a first element or the equivalent thereof such disclosure includes one or more such elements neither requiring nor excluding two or more such elements. Further ordinal indicators e.g. first second or third for identified elements are used to distinguish between the elements and do not indicate or imply a required or limited number of such elements nor do they indicate a particular position or order of such elements unless otherwise specifically stated.

