---

title: Real-time asynchronous event aggregation systems
abstract: A real-time asynchronous event aggregation system, method, and network device are configured to capture real-time asynchronous events, and to pass them as input to one or more aggregation engines to determine a reputation for a target. The aggregation engine(s) may then send out notifications where a reputation category changes for a target, indicating that an action may be taken to inhibit spam messages from the target, highlight a display of content from the target, or the like. As such, the event-driven aggregation engines may be designed to capture real-time asynchronous events, such as reputation reports for a wide variety of activities, including, but not limited to spam and/or not-spam messages, determining a reputation on a posting of comments to a movie, a blog posting, a play list posting, or the like. In one embodiment, a reputation of the sender of the reputation event may also be determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348788&OS=09348788&RS=09348788
owner: YAHOO! INC.
number: 09348788
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140529
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 945 911 filed on Nov. 27 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 849 909 and entitled Real time Asynchronous Event Aggregation Systems which is a Continuation In Part patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 774 460 filed Jul. 6 2007 entitled Detecting Spam Messages Using Rapid Sender Reputation Feedback Analysis and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 the entireties of these applications is further incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to computer systems and more particularly but not exclusively to a system and method for a computing architecture useable to manage real time asynchronous events such as reputation events.

The Internet has provided new opportunities for people to interact with strangers. These interactions can often be fun informative and even profitable. However they may also involve risks. For example just how reliable is the advice located on the Internet from a self proclaimed expert Can one really trust that a given business on the Internet will provide the product as described Is this product movie or hotel something of value Can the author s opinion be trusted Is it reliable 

Before the Internet such questions could be answered through a reputation of the other party often obtained from more trusted friends family co workers or the like. Businesses experts and so forth may also have provided input on whether such opinions could be trusted. Others such as the Better Business Bureau and the like provided information about personal experiences complaints and other gossip about which business or expert one could rely upon and whether this is a product that may be of actual value. However seeking out such sources for their opinions on a particular article product or the like often may take a significant amount of time. Moreover a person might want to seek opinions from several sources to cross check and better weigh the opinions obtained. Again this may take a significant amount of time and resources to obtain reasonable opinions. It becomes more difficult where the searcher may not be familiar with sources that can evaluate and provide an opinion on a particular subject let alone finding a person that might be able to provide an opinion about how reliable another person s comments might be. Thus there is a desire to quickly determine a reputation of a person product article or the like.

The issue of obtaining opinions about internet material becomes even more complex when one considers massive mailings such as might occur during sending of notices or advertisements by a legitimate business church or the like versus mailings that might be spam. Thus there is a desire to quickly determine whether the mailings are reputable whether an author of content is reputable whether the content whether a product and or a service is reputable and to take action to block the less reputable content product service author and or even a source of the reputation event. Therefore it is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention has been made.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Among other things the present invention may be embodied as methods or devices. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Throughout the specification and claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may. As used herein the term or is an inclusive or operator and is equivalent to the term and or unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term based on is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not described unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. In addition throughout the specification the meaning of a an and the include plural references. The meaning of in includes in and on. 

Briefly the present invention is directed towards a real time asynchronous event aggregation system. The system is configured to capture real time asynchronous events and to pass them as input to one or more components within the system known as models to be executed. The results of the models are then made available through a querying component of the system or through real time asynchronous notifications. One aspect of the model is that inputs or events may be received and processed in an asynchronous fashion. While this feature will be made more apparent below briefly this means that as each event is received by the system an operation may be performed independent of receiving a return and absent of wait states. Thus although multiple events might be receivable as inputs the system may immediately perform actions based on receiving any one of the event inputs independent of receiving the other event inputs. The system need not wait until all of the event inputs are received to determine a result output. As such actions within the system may be performed asynchronously independent of when other events are received. Moreover because the system is configured to operate asynchronously there need not be a wait mode within the system where an output is not provided until all of the other event inputs are received.

One application of the event driven aggregation system includes building of reputation platforms where the input events are reputation events sometimes called statements which may include a source context target and or claim. As a reputation platform rules and various asynchronous computations may be performed to determine a reputation score for a given target. The reputation platform may then send out notifications where a reputation category changes for a target or the like.

Thus the event driven aggregation system is designed to capture real time asynchronous events such as reputation reports for a wide variety of activities including but not limited to spam and or not spam messages determining a reputation on a posting of comments to a movie a blog posting a play list posting or virtually any other content posting service product or the like. Thus the architecture of the event driven aggregation system is configured to be applicable to virtually any problem where capturing real time asynchronous events and determining a result is desirable. Therefore although reputations are described below as one application for the aggregation system it should be noted that the scope of the invention is not so limited and other applications are envisaged.

As shown in the figure operating environment includes client devices network content server and Event Aggregation System EAS . Client devices are in communication with each other content server and EAS through network .

Client devices may include virtually any computing device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as network to and from another computing device. The set of such devices described in one embodiment below generally includes computing devices that are usually considered more specialized devices with limited capabilities and typically connect using a wireless communications medium such as cell phones smart phones pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices Citizen s Band Radios CBs integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices or virtually any mobile device and the like. However the set of such devices may also include devices that are usually considered more general purpose devices and typically connect using a wired communications medium at one or more fixed location such as laptop computers personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs and the like. Similarly client devices may be any device that is capable of connecting using a wired or wireless communication medium such as a personal digital assistant PDA POCKET PC wearable computer and any other device that is equipped to communicate over a wired and or wireless communication medium.

Each client device within client devices may include an application that enables a user to perform various operations. For example each client device may include one or more messenger applications that enables the client device to send and receive messages to from another computing device employing various communication mechanisms including but not limited to Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Instant Messaging IM internet relay chat IRC Mardam Bey s internet relay chat mIRC Jabber email and the like.

Client devices also may include at least one other client application that is configured to include a capability to provide and receive textual content multimedia information or the like. The client application may further provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name or the like. In one embodiment mobile devices may uniquely identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN network address or other device identifier. The information may also indicate a content format that the client device is enabled to employ. Such information may be provided in a message or the like sent to or other computing devices.

In one embodiment client devices may receive messages from a message service such as might be provided by EAS content server another network device not illustrated or the like. Users of client devices may determine that a received message is spam or not spam ham . In one embodiment the user may select to provide such indication that the received message is spam or not spam to another device such as EAS content server or the like. Such indications may be performed by clicking on an icon button or the like within or otherwise associated with a messaging client application. In one embodiment the user might send the indication as another message to EAS content server or the like. Such indications may be referred to a reputation event as they provide a comment on the reputation of the sender of the message. In one embodiment the sender of the message might be identified by a network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or the like.

Client devices may be further configured with a browser application that is configured to receive and to send content in a variety of forms including but not limited to markup pages web based messages audio files graphical files file downloads applets scripts text and the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like employing virtually any markup based language including but not limited to a Handheld Device Markup Language HDML such as Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript and the like Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML .

As with received messages a user of client devices might also provide comments ratings or other value judgments about the content viewed over the network. For example the user might view an article a blog page an advertisement a product obtain a service or the like from content server or even access and download various content including but not limited to music documents graphical files video files or the like. The user may also view a movie theatre visit a restaurant or experience a product and or service available through other than content server . The user may then provide the comment or other value judgment about the content product service or the like using content server . Such comment might be configured and organized in one embodiment in the form of a reputation statement or reputation event.

In one embodiment source includes an identifier indicating the source of event . In one embodiment the identifier might be provided by the user as part of inputting and sending the reputation event. However in another embodiment the identifier might be automatically included such as might occur during preparation of a message e.g. a return address or the like. In one embodiment the identifier might also be obtained automatically based on a network address user identifier user account or the like obtained when the user logs in to provide the event or sends the message or the like. In one embodiment a cookie might even be used to determine source s identifier. Target might include virtually any entity for which the claim is about including a message a book album news article music video board post a product a service a location merchant or other business another review or so forth. In addition target might include additional information including an identifier of the target based on a category a location a landmark an occurrence or the like. It should be noted further that target may include sub sets of targets. For example target might include information about a source of a message as well as information about the message itself. In one embodiment target might include information about an author of content that is posted to a blog site or other site such as might be hosted by content server as well as information about the content a subject of the content or the like.

Claim may include comments and or ratings from source about target . A comment may include qualitative elements and may be stored as text in a file a message a database directory or the like. Claim may include a rating that may also include a quantitative element employing a variety of mechanisms including grades stars a score or the like. For example in one embodiment claim might be a judgment that a message from target is spam or not spam.

It should be noted that while event represents one structure of a representation event or statement the implementation is not limited to such structure and other structures may readily be used including a free form structure form inputs a table or the like.

Returning to network is configured to couple client devices with each other and or other network devices. Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. In one embodiment network is the Internet and may include local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router may act as a link between LANs to enable messages to be sent from one to another. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art.

Network may further employ a plurality of wireless access technologies including but not limited to 2nd 2G 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems Wireless LAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for network devices such as client device and the like with various degrees of mobility. For example network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobil communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA or the like.

Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. In essence network includes any communication method by which information may travel between client devices EAS and or content server .

Additionally network may include communication media that typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave data signal or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The terms modulated data signal and carrier wave signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information instructions data and the like in the signal. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as but not limited to twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as but not limited to acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Content server includes virtually any network computing device that is configured to provide various resources including content and or services over network . Content server may provide content and or services for any of a variety of activities including but not limited to merchant businesses financial businesses insurance businesses educational governmental medical products and or services or virtually any other content of interest. Content server might also provide access for various forms of content including but not limited to music blogs videos or the like. In one embodiment content server might be configured to provide an interface for a user to provide comments about content hosted by content server . In one embodiment content server may also provide an interface useable to provide comments about content products services or the like available from other than content server .

Furthermore in one embodiment content server may be configured to send a message to one or more of client devices that includes a link to a web page hosted within content server . Moreover content server may select to send a plurality of messages bulk messages or the like to client devices including advertisements or the like. In one embodiment the messages might be viewed by at least one user as spam messages while another user might view the message as other than spam. It should be noted that content server is not the only possible source for spam unsolicited unwanted messages . For example it should be clear that such messages might also be sent by one or more of client devices .

In addition content server may also provide a messaging service such as a list server or the like. Thus users of client devices might send a message to a plurality of other users through services provided by content server or the like. In one embodiment the messages might therefore appear to be sent from content server rather than from the user employing such service. Thus in one embodiment content server might operate as a message forwarder a submit server for an Internet Service Provider ISP or the like.

Moreover content server might be configured to operate behind a proxy server network address translator NAT Enhanced Service Provider ESP or the like. In such configurations an actual network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or the like might not be readily discernable.

Devices that may operate as content server include but are not limited to personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers network appliances and the like.

One embodiment of EAS is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however EAS represents one embodiment of a real time event aggregation system. As such EAS includes virtually any network device that is configured to receive a reputation event and to asynchronously in real time determine a reputation for an associated target of the reputation event. Thus EAS may be configured and arranged to determine based on inputs from for example client devices whether a message from a target is spam or not spam. In one embodiment EAS might be configured to classify the target into one of several possible classifications such as for example not spammer spammer or indeterminate. EAS may then perform various actions based on the classification of the target including preventing another message to be sent to client devices alerting an authority administrator or even users of target s reputation and activities.

In one embodiment where the reputation event is about content provided by the target EAS might determine based on a reputation classification whether to allow the content to be displayed or not. For example in one embodiment where EAS determines that content by the target is below a threshold reputation value the content might be removed from content server hidden from view of client devices other than the target in addition to the target or the like. In one embodiment where the reputation of the target is above a threshold reputation value EAS might enable the target provider to receive a reward. Thus for example where the target provider provides blog inputs that receive high reputation values EAS might provide the target provider with money discounts coupons or the like.

Although EAS is illustrated as a distinct network device the invention is not so limited. For example a plurality of network devices may be configured to perform the operational aspects of EAS . In any event devices that may operate as EAS include but are not limited to personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers network appliances and the like.

Network device includes processing unit video display adapter and a mass memory all in communication with each other via bus . The memory generally includes RAM and ROM . Network device also includes one or more mass storage devices such as hard disk drive tape drive optical disk drive and or floppy disk drive. The memory stores operating system for controlling the operation of network device . Any general purpose operating system may be employed. Basic input output system BIOS is also provided for controlling the low level operation of network device . As illustrated in network device also can communicate with the Internet or some other communications network via network interface unit which is constructed for use with various communication protocols including the TCP IP protocol. Network interface unit is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device network interface card NIC or the like.

Network device may also include an SMTP handler application for transmitting and receiving email. Network device may also include an HTTP handler application for receiving and handing HTTP requests and an HTTPS handler application for handling secure connections. The HTTPS handler application may initiate communication with an external application in a secure fashion.

Network device also may include input output interface for communicating with external devices such as a mouse keyboard scanner or other input devices not shown in . Likewise network device may further include additional mass storage facilities such as optical disk drive and hard disk drive . Hard disk drive is utilized by network device to store among other things application programs databases or the like.

The memory and or mass storage as described above illustrates another type of computer readable media namely computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

The memory also stores program code and data. One or more applications are loaded into memory and run on operating system . Examples of application programs include schedulers calendars transcoders database programs word processing programs spreadsheet programs security programs web servers and so forth. Mass storage may further include applications such message server Reputation System RS and data store .

Data store is configured and arranged to store and otherwise manage messages statistical data reputation reports volume reports or the like. Data store however is not limited to managing storage of these example items and other items data information or the like may also be stored within data store without departing from the scope of the invention. For example data store may also include user account information policies procedures or the like useable for inhibiting delivery of spam posting reputation computations or the like. Moreover data store may be employed to maintain historical data such as predictions reputation reports and the like useable to generate a reputation report a sender categorization model or the like. Data store may be implemented using a variety of technologies including but not limited to folders spreadsheets data bases scripts applications or the like. It should be noted that while data store is illustrated with RAM the invention is not so limited. Thus data store may also be stored in part or in whole in one or more of optical disk drive hard disk drive or some other storage medium including a storage medium within another network device.

Message server may include virtually any computing component or components configured and arranged to forward messages from message user agents and or other message servers or to deliver messages to a local message store such as data store or the like. Thus message server may include a message transfer manager to communicate a message employing any of a variety of email protocols including but not limited to Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Post Office Protocol POP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP NNTP or the like.

However message server is not constrained to email messages and other messaging protocols may also be managed by one or more components of message server . Thus message server may also be configured to manage SMS messages IM MMS IRC mIRC or any of a variety of other message types.

In any event message server may be configured to provide reports indicating a variety of information about messages. Such reports may include information about a volume of messages received by users of message server a volume of determined bulk messages received information about messages received by known fake message addresses Address book entries or the like. Message server might also provide user account information user reputation information or the like. In one embodiment message server might also configure and provide a fake message address useable to trap and report messages sent to the fake message address as spam messages.

RS is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however RS is configured and arranged to operate as an asynchronous real time reputation aggregation system. As such RS may receive asynchronously reputation events from a variety of sources and to determine a reputation for one or more targets. In one embodiment RS may further enable a user administrator a content provider a service provider or the like to perform a query to determine a reputation for a target. In one embodiment RS may provide notifications of changes in a reputation of a target a classification of a target or the like such that various actions may be performed based on the determined reputation. For example if the reputation for the target indicates that the target is providing untrustworthy content such as abusive content on a blog site spam messages to users or the like RS might send a notification to message server to request that additional messages from the target be blocked. In one embodiment RS may request that the content posted at a content server or the like be deleted or otherwise hidden from view. In another embodiment RS may provide reputation information about a source of a reputation event and or a target to content server . Content server in one embodiment may employ the reputations to perform various actions including deleting content hiding content removing a user s account and or authoring privileges or the like. In one embodiment content server may further display at least some of the reputation information so that other visitors to the server may take actions based on the displayed reputations.

It should be noted that RS may also provide notifications and or perform actions based on a target s reputation beyond those identified explicitly herein. Thus such examples should not be construed as limiting the invention in any manner.

The following describes one embodiment of an implementation of a real time asynchronous aggregation platform useable by RS of . It is noted that the invention is not limited to using such implementation platform however. shows a functional block diagram of one embodiment of a real time asynchronous aggregation platform useable for rapidly determining reputations based on reputation events within the environment illustrated in . Platform may include many more or less components than those shown. The components shown however are sufficient to disclose an illustrative embodiment for practicing the invention.

As shown platform is designed to capture real time asynchronous events pass them as input to one or more aggregation engines to be executed and make results available by querying the platform or by sending real time asynchronous notifications. Platform therefore is configured to lend itself to a variety of applications where events are viewable as reputation events usually specifying a source context target and or claim.

As seen in the platform includes events dispatcher service aggregation engine persistent repository query service and event notifier .

Events represent real time inputs into platform . They can be triggered explicitly by users or triggered implicitly based on some action. They can also be triggered internally by a model within the platform such as by aggregation engine or event notifier or the like. In one embodiment the events can be sent to the same deployment a remote deployment or to a defined application. Events may be asynchronous in nature which means that they may be sent by another device and forgotten indicating that in one embodiment platform might not provide a response when receiving an event.

In one embodiment the events may be specified using JavaScript Object Notation JSON however the invention is not so constrained and other specifications may also be employed. Events may also be self describing being defined by the model application. Thus each application model may define its own set of events. For example as shown events represent inputs from a variety of sources including but not limited to users a message server content server SPAM trap server or the like or a variety of other sources. Events may represent various reputation events and include information such as described above in conjunction with .

In one embodiment events may include a name of the associated aggregation engine a method within the aggregation engine that the event is destined for aggregation engine specific parameters or the like. Thus in one embodiment events may be received and dispatched to various aggregation engines.

Platform may enable multiple transport protocols for receiving events . Thus events may be received over an asynchronous transaction stream such as a reliable store and forward mechanism via an asynchronous buffered transport such as an unreliable mechanism over HTTP using a web service or virtually any other transport protocols including mail protocols TCP IP or the like.

Aggregation engine is configured to process incoming events to rapidly determine in real time reputation for at least a target and in one embodiment also a source of the reputation event. In one embodiment aggregation engine provides a reputation classification that may be used to determine whether the target is likely to be a spammer has an untrustworthy reputation or the like. Such determination may then be sent as a notification to event notifier . Event notifier may then based on the notification perform some action such as blocking future messages from the sender target hiding content posted by the target canceling an account authoring privileges or the like. One example of a process useable by aggregation engine is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Persistent Repository is configured to implement in one embodiment a high performance redundant and scalable data store. Aggregation engine may employ persistent repository to persist data across multiple invocations of Aggregation engine or for sharing data between different aggregation engines. In one embodiment aggregation engine may perform actions to normalize at least some of the data such that it may be readily employed across multiple aggregation engines.

In one embodiment persistent repository may be a partitioned hashed key value pair repository using a primary key indexing scheme. However for other queries such as those using a secondary index persistent repository may in one embodiment provide a mechanism to send events to other external data stores.

Persistent repository may be configured to scale horizontally by adding more partitions such as through additional servers for example and to enable automatic migration of data from one partition to another partition. In one embodiment the hashing algorithm may be configured to minimize an amount of migrations. Moreover the partitions may be fully redundant by employing multiple servers per partition and ensuring automatic replication of data between the servers.

In one embodiment persistent repository may use a domain to partition a target namespace. Moreover in one embodiment persistent repository may append the target name to the domain to construct the primary key. Thus in one embodiment a domain target may be employed as a unique identifier for storing attributes for a given target in a given domain namespace.

Notifications such as a target s reputation classification may be considered as an outgoing event generated by aggregation engines such as aggregation engine . Such notifications may be sent asynchronously to notify another application such as notifier or the like when a change of state occurs. Moreover notifications can be used to populate a secondary data store such as one useable to maintain a record of known spammers or the like.

Query service is configured and arranged to enable an administrator user or the like to request specific information from persistent repository . In one embodiment the query may employ REpresentation State Transfer for distributed hypermedia RESTful formats while a response may be returned as JSON. However the invention is not limited to these formats and others may also be used without departing from the scope of the invention.

Dispatcher service is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however dispatcher service is configured to receive incoming events and to dispatch them to one or more aggregation engines to be processed. Dispatcher service may in one embodiment employ a store and forward transactional mechanism to send events to an aggregation engine.

Dispatcher service may support a variety of transports for incoming events including reliable transactional transports batch transports HTTP via REST or SOAP formats raw TCP or UDP message formats or the like.

As shown dispatcher may include listeners event queue relay consumer and dispatch consumer . As events are received one or more listeners may receive the events from various event sources including but not limited to client devices and content server of message server of another application and or another EAS. Such listeners may be configured to listen for incoming events from a particular source from a particular transport mechanism or even for a particular type of event. As such listener may be configured to receive incoming events associated with for example spam reports spam traps a same content servers a same target a same source or the like. Similarly listener may be configured to receive incoming events associated with for example not spam reports a different content server a different target source or the like. However the invention is not so limited and other implementations may be used. For example a separate listener may be employed for each event. In another embodiment a listener might be associated with events from a user such as spam reports not spam reports spam traps or the like while another listener is configured to receive reports from a message server or the like. In one embodiment events may be time stamped as to when they are received. The events may also be stamped as to a source from which the event is received or the like. In one embodiment listeners may perform such stamping however event queue may also be configured to perform such stamping.

In any event independent of how the incoming events are received listeners may then provide the events to event queue where they may be consumed by consumer process to be delivered to an optional secondary aggregation engine or other aggregation engine such as illustrated in . Similarly the events in event queue may also be consumed by dispatch consumer which delivers the events to aggregation engine of .

Also illustrated in engine models may communicate information such as events to external applications another deployment of a real time asynchronous aggregation platform such as deployment as well as provide events and other data to persistent repository and or secondary data store . By providing events and or other data to the same persistent repository in one embodiment engine models may also be configured to share the events and or data with each other build a common output structure or the like.

The operation of certain aspects of the present invention will now be described with respect to . illustrates a functional diagram generally showing one embodiment of an overview of asynchronous process useable in rapidly determining a reputation for a sender. It should be noted that process of is just one example of an application for which the real time asynchronous event aggregation system described above may be employed. Thus such example is not to be construed as limiting the platform in any sense. In one embodiment process may be implemented as executable objects within an aggregator engine such as aggregator engine of .

As shown however process represents determining in real time a reputation of a message sender such as email. The message sender s reputation may be determined based on an evaluation by the recipient of the message. The sender s reputation may be subsequently classified into various categories or ranges. In one embodiment based on the classification various actions may be taken including but not limited to inhibiting another message to be sent to one of the identified users sending a warning message to the sender of the message revoking an account associated with the sender of the message or even merely selecting to continue to monitor additional activities by the sender. As shown a sender may be identified based on a variety of mechanisms including but not limited to a network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address a sender s user name sender s user account or the like.

Process may begins with an input from any one or more of blocks and or . At block a user may receive a message such as an email message from a sender IP. The user may then determine based on a variety of criteria whether or not the message is spam or not. In one embodiment the user may determine that the message is spam and send a message to the real time asynchronous event aggregation system so indicating that the message is spam. It should be noted that another user at block might receive the same message from the same sender IP and determine that the message is not spam. The user in block may so indicate through a variety of mechanisms that the message is not spam. In blocks and the users might receive and or provide their determinations on the quality of the message at the same or different times. Moreover the users may employ different or similar mechanisms to provide their determinations. For example in one embodiment a user interface might be provided to the users to enable the users to select an icon or other input mechanism to place their votes determinations . Such inputs may also be determined automatically based on a variety of other mechanisms including but not limited to actions taken by the users such as deleting the message without reading it deleting the message after having read it moving the message to a spam folder moving the message to a save folder or the like. In any event such votes or determinations may operate as reputation events that indicate a value judgment by the users about the message and thus a value judgment on the reputation of the message sender IP.

Block is configured and arranged as a SPAM trap mechanism. As such messages are not typically expected to be received by the SPAM trap. However any message that is received is automatically interpreted as spam. Thus if the sender IP sends the message to the SPAM trap it triggers sending of a reputation event indicating that the sender IP sent spam. In one embodiment such events might be separately managed. However in another embodiment such events could also be directed to block .

Asynchronous reputation events sent by blocks and or may be received by blocks and or as shown. Thus if a reputation event is sent by block it may be dispatched to blocks and . Similarly a reputation event sent from block may be dispatched to blocks and . Reputation events sent from block may be sent to blocks and . As such reputation events may be dispatched or fan out to multiple blocks.

Block is configured and arranged to asynchronously determine a reputation of a user. Thus in one embodiment inputs from blocks and may be saved and when a determination is made about the reputation of the sender such as from block it may be used to determine the user s reputation. For example if several users identify a sender IP as not a spammer then those user s that identified the sender IP as spam might have a reputation that is viewable as lower than the other users that voted the sender IP as not a spammer. Other inputs not shown might also be used to determine at block a user s reputation. For example a sender might select to appeal their resulting reputation. If the appeal results in a change in the sender s reputation this information might be used to also modify a user s reputation. For example where a user voted that the sender IP is a spammer but the result of the appeal changed the sender IP s reputation from that of a spammer to not a spammer. Then the user s reputation might be diminished or determined to be less trustworthy. Thus block may monitor a user s voting activity to determine a user s reputation. In one embodiment the user s reputation might be used to weight their inputs in the future. Thus if a user has a low reputation indicating that they have been incorrect with respect to the other users inputs then their next vote might be weighted lower than a vote from a user that correct with respect to the other users inputs.

Block is configured and arranged to asynchronously determine a count of the number of users that identified that the sender IP is a spammer has sent a spam message . In one embodiment block might use a user s reputation to weight their count as described above. The output of block might then be provided to block .

Similarly block is configured and arranged to asynchronously determine a count of the number of users that identified that the sender IP is not a spammer has sent a message that is determined not to be spam . As in block in one embodiment output from block might be used to weight the user s vote. The output of block may then be provided to block .

Block is configured and arranged to asynchronously determine a count of the number of spam messages received by block for sender IP. The output of block may also be sent asynchronously to block .

Block may asynchronously receive inputs from any one or more of blocks and or block . That is block may make real time determinations on a reputation of a sender IP independent of receiving inputs from each of blocks or . For example it is not uncommon to receive less or even no inputs from a user indicating that a message is not spam. Thus block might receive no inputs and thus provide in one embodiment no outputs. However block may still continue to determine the reputation for the sender IP independent of whether block receives and or sends an update.

Block is configured and arranged to determine a single reputation for a sender IP based on one more inputs. Block may in one embodiment employ a running average of weighted totals to determine the sender IP s reputation. However the invention is not constrained to such calculations and any of a variety of mechanisms may be used to determine the sender IP s reputation. For example inputs obtained during one time period might receive an overall weighting while inputs received during another time period might be weighted differently. For example early reputation event votes could get a higher or lower weighting than later reputation event votes. The output of block may then be sent to block based on a sender reputation classification. For example if the reputation for the sender IP is below a first value the results might be sent to block within block while if the reputation is above a second value the results might be sent to block and otherwise the results might be sent to block . Thus a reputation send to one of the blocks within might be handled differently based on different rules. For example in one embodiment reputations within block might be considered as not spammers while those in block might be considered as spammers. Based on a classification in one embodiment various actions might be taken including but not limited to inhibiting additional messages from the sender IP deleting an account associated with the sender IP or the like.

Also illustrated in process is block . Block may be configured and arranged to receive inputs from one or more of block and or and to determine a range of sender IPs such as might be associated with a network s sub network of addresses or the like. The range of network addresses or IPs might be useable based on the votes to determine a reputation for a range of sender IPs. For example it might be found that a several sender IPs within a sub network of addresses are voted as spammers. The results from process might then classify sender IPs within the identified sub network range as spammers even if a reputation event does not specifically identify the IP address as a source of spam. In this manner blocks of sender IP addresses might be inhibited from sending messages to users or the like.

It will be understood that each block of the illustration and combinations of blocks in the illustration can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the processor to provide steps for implementing the actions specified in the block or blocks. In one embodiment at least some of the operational steps may be performed serially however the invention is not so limited and at least some steps may be performed concurrently.

Accordingly blocks of the illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the illustration and combinations of blocks in the illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It should be noted that the above described real time asynchronous aggregation platform may be employed for determining reputations for a variety of other application beyond that of a email message sender s reputation. For example the real time asynchronous aggregation platform may be employed to determine reputations for movies authors of blogs or other articles cars or any of a variety of a target of interest.

Therefore in a more general context events such as described above may be represented generally by a reputation statement. A reputation statement may typically include an action by a source such as a user that submits values in a particular context for a target such as a user generated content or product. Statements may be sent asynchronously to the real time asynchronous aggregation platform. A reputation engine within the real time asynchronous aggregation platform may then process the statement by calculating a target s reputation score and storing the result in a reputation repository the events may also be optionally stored as well.

In the statement in one embodiment a method parameter may be included that specifies which model and or method in the engine will do the processing. In one embodiment a reputation statement may describe an event as a source such as a user makes a value judgment or claim about a target such as a product or some user generated content. For example in one embodiment user A the source give 4 out of 5 stars the claim to the movie XYZ the target .

The reputation engine in one embodiment such as described above combines or rolls up the claim values to determine the target s reputation score for each of its reputation attributes. The model may then in one embodiment define a formula or the like and which reputation attributes to update for the target.

Moreover in one embodiment a reputation statement may include several types of claims including but not limited to quantitative normalized or composite. A quantitative claim may assign a numeric value to the target. A normalized claim might assign a numeric value within a specified range while a composite claim may assign two or more key value pairs to a target. For example price 1 service 3 or the like.

In any event the reputation engine may be configured to receive a reputation statement including one or more of the above types of claims and to operate in real time upon the received reputation statements to determine a reputation for the target. Thus the real time asynchronous aggregation platform may be employed for a large variety of different reputation applications or the like.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

