---

title: Apparatus and method for accessing a back-end service
abstract: Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a first software defined network element is created in local communication with a gateway of a core network portion of a mobility network. Establishment of first logical network connection facilitated between the first software defined network element and a second network element in local communication with a remotely accessible system, such as a back-end system of an enterprise data center or cloud service provider. A request from a mobile device serviced by the mobility network is received for access to a service of the remotely accessible system. The request and/or a translation of the request is forwarded to the second network element by way of the first logical network connection. The second network element forwards the translated request to the remotely accessible system. Other embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609574&OS=09609574&RS=09609574
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09609574
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140929
---
The subject disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for accessing a back end service and more particularly to a backend as a service software defined network element.

Mobile devices which require access to enterprise backend data sources generally rely on middleware servers such as Mobile Enterprise Applications Platforms MEAP or Mobile Applications Development Platforms MADP to provide this information. For example a mobile application can be written to request financial transactions from an Oracle Financial database residing in an enterprise datacenter. In this example the mobile device application issues data requests to a Mobile Enterprise Applications Platform MEAP or Mobile Applications Development Platform MADP middleware gateway and or server residing in the enterprise data center which subsequently accesses backend data sources e.g. databases and forwards this data to the mobile application.

In other words when an application residing on a mobile device requires access to a database e.g. an Oracle database residing in the enterprise data center the mobile application interfaces with a middleware server. These servers are known by various acronyms such as Mobile Enterprise Applications Platforms MEAP or Mobile Applications Development Platforms MADP .

MEAP and or MADP gateways can be resident at datacenters of the enterprise organizations and generally receive data from a mobile device by way of the mobile network. In an LTE environment the MEAP MADP gateways receive the data from an LTE gateway. The MEAP MADP gateway residing in the enterprise premises accesses backend data sources such as Oracle databases and forward the information requested back to the LTE gateway for delivery to the mobile device. Thus the LTE gateway residing in the carrier network essentially passes data back and forth between the mobile device and the MEAP MADP servers.

The subject disclosure describes among other things illustrative embodiments of software defined network element front ending a gateway of the core network provides mobile devices with an ability to access back end data sources residing in the cloud and in enterprise customer data centers. Mobile clients accesses services provided by a software defined network mobile backend as a service network element that subsequently interfaces with a corresponding software defined network mobile backend as a service element residing in the cloud or enterprise customer data center containing backend services. Other embodiments are described in the subject disclosure.

The carrier is disintermediated from this process it is just passing data back and forth from and to the mobile device. One or more aspects of the subject disclosure include software defined network mobile backend as a service network element that allow mobile devices to dynamically access back end data sources such as Oracle and SAP databases residing in the cloud or enterprise customer data centers without mobile middleware servers. In some instances mobile devices can access the back end data sources without requiring a resident back end client or even a related application. Namely requests for back end services can be made through existing messaging infrastructures such as short message service SMS or Mobile Multimedia Messages MMS according to the techniques disclosed herein.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a device including a processor and a memory that stores executable instructions. The executable instructions when executed by the processor facilitate performance of operations that include creating a first software defined network element in local communication with a gateway of an evolved packet core of a long term evolution network. Establishment of a first logical network connection is facilitated between the first software defined network element and a second software defined network element in local communication with a remotely accessible system. A request initiated by a mobile device serviced by the long term evolution network is received for access to a service of the remotely accessible system. The request is translated and forwarding to the second software defined network element by way of the first logical network connection. The second software defined network element forwards the translated request to the remotely accessible system.

Another embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a machine readable storage medium including executable instructions that when executed by a processor facilitate performance of operations. The operations including creating a first software defined network element in local communication with equipment of a core network of a mobility network. Establishment of a first logical network connection is facilitated between the first software defined network element and a second software defined network element in local communication with a remotely accessible system. A first message is received including a request initiated by a mobile device serviced by the mobility network for access to a service of the remotely accessible system. A second message is forwarded including the request to the second software defined network element by way of the first logical network connection. The second software defined network element forwards the second message to the remotely accessible system by way of an application programming interface.

Yet another embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a process including creating by a system including a processor a number of software defined network elements at a network carrier premises. Establishment of number of logical network connection are facilitated by the system between the number of software defined network elements and a number of network elements in local communication with a number of back end servers at enterprise premises. A request initiated by a mobile device is received by the system for access to a service of a particular back end server of the number of back end servers. A location is identified of the particular back end server of the number of back end servers and forwarded by the system to the network element. The message is forwarded by way of a logical network connection of the number of logical network connections corresponding to the location of the particular back end server. The network element forwards the request to the particular back end server of the number of back end servers.

The carrier network includes a core network such as an Enhanced Packet Core EPC of a 4G or Long Term Evolution LTE network. The EPC or core network includes one or more network elements. For LTE networks the core network generally includes a Serving Gateway S GW a Mobility Management Entity MME a Home Subscriber Server HSS and a Packet Data Network PDN Gateway P GW as shown. The core network gateways and are in communication with each according to pre defined interfaces S11 S6a S5 S8a as shown.

The eNB is in communication with the MME through an S1 MME interface and the S GW through an S1 U interface. Generally the MME handles control plane activity whereas the S GW handles data or user plane activity. Information packets are routed between the P GW and one or more other networks such as the IP network an ISM network and or GSM network not shown .

In some embodiments the carrier network includes a Software Defined Network SDN controller or master . The SDN controller is in communication with other SDN network elements referred to as Mobile Back End as a Service MBAS SDN network elements generally . It is envisioned that an SDN master controller implemented in the carrier premises manages relationships between the MBAS SDN element and various MBAS SDN e elements residing in enterprise customer premises . The MBAS SDN elements allow for implementation of a software implementation of network elements that can be created either as a pre defined software resource or created dynamically in response to changing network conditions. The MBAS SDN elements can serve as a front end to the core network devices such as the LTE gateways. In some embodiments the MBAS SDN element works in conjunction with a software client residing in mobile devices . The purpose of the mobile client would be to interface with the MBAS SDN element and issue requests for backend data services. In at least some embodiments the MBAS SDN element operates transparently to other carrier network elements as part of the LTE gateway . The MBAS SDN element can work in close linkage with a corresponding MBAS SDN network element or gateway residing in the enterprise network or the cloud service provider .

The SDN controller can be a stand alone processor such as a server an element of a blade processor or a portion of an existing processor. The MBAS SDN network elements can be hosted on the same processing platform as the SDN controller and or on another processing platform. One or more of the MBAS SDN network elements and or the SDN controller can be in communication with storage and or a knowledge engine . The knowledge engine can be implemented as an Artificial Intelligence AI engine . The AI engine includes or otherwise has access to a memory cache .

The AI engine supports the MBAS SDN element and provides an ability to learn and anticipate data requests. In some embodiments previously processed requests can be cached and used in subsequent queries in a predictive manner. For example if a mobile user requests services such as reports according to a particular schedule the AI engine can determine particulars related to the report and or the schedule. The AI engine in cooperation with the MBAS SDN element can issue a request in anticipation of a request not yet received from the mobile user. Replies or reports resulting from such anticipatory requests can be sent e.g. pushed to the mobile device in an unsolicited manner. Alternatively or in addition the unsolicited results reports can be stored e.g. at the storage and a notification sent to the mobile device. The notification can be any suitable mode including an SMS message an MMS message with a link to the stored results reports an email message a phone call e.g. with a pre recorded voice message or voice message synthesize from text to information the user of the mobile device that the results are available.

The data centers can belong to an enterprise organization such as a business or other institution. Alternatively or in addition the data centers can belong to a third party such as a cloud service provider e.g. Google . Each of the data centers can include a server generally referred to as a back end or cloud server and storage generally accessible to the server s . The server s can host one or more services under what is generally understood as a service oriented architecture e.g. the SAP Enterprise Service Oriented Architecture. The services can be offered to members e.g. employees of a particular enterprise to clients or customers to vendors or suppliers to business partners or collaborators and so forth. The services can be accessed in machine to machine transactions from within the premises of the enterprise and or remotely at an associated network address and by way of network connectivity to the remote machine.

In the illustrative example the mobile device includes an application program or app that may be accessed or otherwise launched by way of an icon displayable on a user interface of the mobile device . In this example the mobile app accesses back end services available from the back end servers. In some embodiments the mobile device includes a resident back end client to access services offered by the back end server s . Examples of services include business applications related to one or more of accounting distribution production procurement sales customer service corporate performance and governance human resource and so on.

Consider a corporate performance application requiring access to financial reports of the corporation. The application can call on the back end client to initiate a machine machine communication between the mobile device and the back end server at the enterprise data center . The back end client can generate a request for information and send the request to the back end server . The back end server responsive to receiving the request can access stored financial data from the storage . In some embodiments a middleware server can be used to translate or otherwise modify the request to a format appropriate for the back end server . The back end server in turn can produce and in at least some instances format the requested information in a report as may be appropriate e.g. for the particular application .

In the previous example communications between the mobile device and the back end server rely on a client server model that can include a middleware server as may be required. Particulars of the request and the returned information or reports can be managed by the client server arrangement. Namely knowledge of particular request formats and so on are generally identified beforehand. The back end client can prepare requests and replies according to requirements of one or more of the application the middleware servers when provided and the back end server . In such instances the carrier network an particularly the core network largely relay messages between the mobile device and the enterprise data center . It is conceivable that for a large e.g. national carrier the number of enterprise data centers can be in the hundreds or greater. Consider at least 500 such data centers one enterprise data center for each of the Fortune 500 companies.

Beneficially the MBAS SDN element s are resident at the carrier network premises and therefore closely and reliably accessible to elements of the carrier network such as the gateways of the core network . Accordingly communications between the MBAS SDN elements and the locally accessible gateways of the core network can be reliably and securely accomplished by low level interfaces. For example the interfaces can be accomplished by one or more of layers 1 4 of the OSI model without requiring layers 5 7. Alternatively or in addition the MBAS SDN elements and the locally accessible gateways of the core network can communicate over other low level interfaces including proprietary interfaces that may include limited or no error detection and or error correction. The interfaces may include limited or no security as such security would not be necessary considering the MBAS SDN elements are under the direct control of the carrier e.g. located on secure carrier premises. Such low level interfaces can simplify protocol stacks and associated network communications.

In the illustrative embodiment the MBAS SDN element s can initiate a logical network path to equipment at the enterprise data center s such as the back end server s . Such logical network paths can be pre configured e.g. during provisioning. Alternatively or in addition the logical network paths can be added deleted and or reconfigured on the fly. Such an adaptive nature of the logical network allows the carrier network to adjust the logical network paths as may be necessary to respond to changing network conditions. Further by using logical network elements the provisioning of network paths can be accomplished without regard to the underlying physical network connections. This allows the carrier to adjust the network in an ad hoc or reactive manner.

In some embodiments the mobile device is not equipped with nor does it require the back end client . Rather the MBAS SDN element s at the core network is configured to receive request directly from the application . These can include requests directed from the application and or from a user of the mobile device by any suitable means such as text messages through SMS or text multimedia messages through MMS. The MBAS SDN element s can receive supplemental information from the message itself and or from the carrier.

The supplemental information an include one or more of identities of the mobile device a user of the mobile device the application the enterprise data center the back end server a service requested from the back end server and so on. The supplemental information can be obtained from the message e.g. in a header portion. Alternatively or in addition all or a portion of the supplemental information can be provided by the carrier. Such carrier provided information can include network information such as one or more of statistics capacity billing as a real time value based on current conditions. It is also envisioned that the network information can include historical information e.g. past usage and or predictive information such as expected outages limitations to bandwidths changes in billing rates and so on.

The MBAS SDN network element s can exchange messages between itself and the back end server s without modification. Alternatively or in addition the MBAS SDN network element s can intercept such messages translate and or reformat as may be required. Thus an application might use a particular set of commands that are not recognizable or otherwise serviceable directly by the back end server.

An example includes an SMS message typed by a user provide second quarter financials. This SMS message could be relayed directly to the MBAS SDN via another network entity such as Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP gateway. The MBAS SDN might receive this message directly e.g. by a user sending it via SMS addressed to a short code identifying one of the SDN controller and or the MBAS SDN . It is envisioned that the MBAS SDN element is supported by a large set of catalogs and databases which would contain records such as records of mobile clients requests associated databases and location of MBAS SDN e elements . For example the MBAS SDN element can be supported by a security catalog which would enable the MBAS SDN element to restrict usage and assign privileges to individual requests based on pre provisioned parameters. The MBAS SDN has access to stored information and or the AI engine . The MBAS SDN can be programmed to directly translate message for example according to a look up table as might be stored in the local storage . Alternatively some degree of interpretation may be necessary. An interpretive feature is advantageous particularly for such free form messages as those provided by email SMS MMS and so on.

According to generally well understood techniques such free form messages can be parsed according to one or more of a grammar and a dictionary. The parsed message in whole or in part can be interpreted and translated or otherwise used to generate another message. The other message is destined for the target back end server and subscribes to grammars semantics and or syntax as may be required by applications serviced by the back end server . Certain words e.g. those related to a particular application such as finance governance human resources can be used to identify one or more of the particular back end server or back end service of multiple services hosted by the server to receive the message. Such partial identifications can be used to facilitate interpretation.

For example having determined that the message relates to financial services can reduce the set of possible messages available by a financial back end service. Other message content such as date s amount s entities formats and so on can be interpreted. The MBAS SDN and or the SDN controller can translate the message e.g. the SMS text message to a translate message suitable for the intended back end service. Other information such as an identity of the mobile user and or mobile device can be used to identify the particular enterprise data center and or the particular back end server or back end service sought.

In some embodiments one or more of the enterprise data centers include a software defined network element generally . In particular the software defined network element is in communication with the mobile back end server and referred to as a Mobile Back End as a Service Software Defined Network enterprise MBAS SDN e element . The MBAS SDN e element can be hosted on a dedicated processor such as a server or gateway at the enterprise data center . Alternatively the MBAS SDN element can be hosted on an existing processor e.g. supporting other activities at the enterprise data center . It is envisioned that the MBAS SDN element can include one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs generally as may be necessary to support interaction with those back end services made available to the mobile user. The MBAS SDN e elements can receive requests from the carrier MBAS SDN element and interface via API s with the backend data sources such as Oracle databases. An MBAS SDN e element residing in the enterprise network or cloud services provider can be implemented as a standalone gateway or as part of a router or additional gateways. It is also envisioned that the MBAS SDN e element residing in the enterprise network can be implemented as part of a MADP MEAP gateway as software defined network element. When present the MBAS SDN e element at the enterprise data center communicates with the MBAS SDN element at the core network by way of the logical network connection established between the two devices .

The carrier network includes a core network e.g. of an LTE network. The core network includes one or more network elements such as an S GW an MME an HSS and a P GW as shown. The eNB is in communication with the MME which generally handles control plane activity and the S GW in further communication with the P GW which generally handle user or data plan activity. Information packets are routed between the P GW and one or more other networks such as the IP network an IMS network and or GSM network . In the illustrative example a second mobile device communicates with the GSM network by way of a base transceiver station . One or more of the GSM network and the IMS network can be in communication with the carrier network by a direct connection e.g. by way of the P GW or indirectly by way of another network such as the IP network .

Also shown are an SMS gateway and an MMS gateway for passing SMS and or MMS network messages according to generally well understood techniques. Since the MBAS SDN element resides in the carrier network it is envisioned that the MBAS SDN element can interface with other carrier network elements such as the SMS gateway and MMS gateway . The MBAS SDN element can have the ability to integrate mobile device requests with other sources of data such as the SMS and MMS gateways . One of the SMS gateway the MMS gateway or both can be in communication with the carrier network and particularly with an MBAS SDN element operated by the carrier network . Such network paths between the MBAS SDN element and the mobile devices generally allows SMS and or MMS message to be directed from the mobile device s directly to the MBAS SDN element . Once again this can be accomplished by a destination address such as a short code a telephone number or an internet address.

The SMS and or MMS messages once received by the MBAS SDN element can be processed as described above. That is the messages can be translated as required with the translated message being directed from the MBAS SDN element to a back end server by way of a middleware server or without such a middleware server. The ability to service data requests issued by mobile devices without the need of a middleware gateway and or without the need of a mobile client. In some embodiments the enterprise data center includes an MBAS SDN e element in network communication with the MBAS SDN element of the carrier by way of a logically defined network. The logically defined nature along with application of generally well understood software defined network techniques allows all of the advantages and flexibility disclosed above in reference to .

Messages received from the mobile device s at the MBAS SDN result in one or more reply message s directed from the back end server e.g. by way of the MBAS SDN e element to the MBAS SDN by way of the logical network. The MBAS SDN can forward the reply message s to the corresponding mobile device s . In some embodiments messages sent by the mobile device by way of SMS and or MMS messaging services generate reply messages in a like manner. Namely an SMS request message can result in an SMS reply message. Likewise an MMS request can result in an MMS reply. However in some instances a simple request message can result in a requested service that requires features not available to the source messaging service.

Consider an SMS message request for a financial report. The request might be a simple text phrase e.g. get 2013 financial report. The result however might be inappropriate for SMS for any of various reasons. The result may be lengthy and exceed message lengths. The results might contain special formatting and or graphics that are not well suited to the messaging service used in the request. In such instances one of the MBAS SDN e element the MBAS SDN element the SDN controller or another processor such as the AI engine can compare the requesting message service or format and identify a suitable reply service or format. In the simple SMS request resulting in a length complex result with special formatting and graphics the MBAS SDN e element the MBAS SDN element the SDN controller or another processor can determine that am MMS reply would be sufficient. That is a relatively short message indicating that a reply is present along with a pointer such as an HTTP or web address to the resulting report. The web report can be sent from the back end server to a web server e.g. in a DMZ of the enterprise data center or some other location such as an Internet and or cloud service provider. Selection of the link provided in the SMS reply message will direct the mobile device to the appropriate HTTP document or web page to view results.

Alternatively or in addition results can be provided by other modes such as by an email. The email address of the recipient e.g. a user of the mobile device can be provided according to records of the enterprise organization the carrier or within the message itself e.g. during a translation. If it is recognized during a translation that the originating message format or service would be insufficient or otherwise inadequate for a reply the MBAS SDN can include such information within the translated message. That is the translated message might simply identify a mode for providing the requested service according to a user preference an enterprise preference best practices and so on. In this instance the MBAS SDN e element receives the translated reply and notification as to which mode should be used in providing the requested service.

A request is received at the software defined network element of the carrier network facility at . For example a request from the mobile device in the form of a request message is directed to a network address of the MBAS SDN element . By its close association and colocation with the core network the message received by way of the core network can be directed to the MBAS SDN element by way of a low level interface. That is a low level interface of one of the core network gateways such as the P GW . The low level interface alone or in combination with a close network association provided by the network communications established between the MBAS SDN element and the MBAS SDN e element generally result in efficient reliable and secure delivery of back end enterprise services to mobile users.

In some embodiments a determination is made at whether the received request requires translation at . In some instances the mobile application provides the request message in a suitable format e.g. with proper grammar syntax and so forth. For example translations may not be required if the mobile device includes a back end client that is pre configured to issue request for back end services in a suitable formats. In such instances a translation would not generally be required. In other instances e.g. when the mobile device is not configured with the back end client at least some degree of translation may be required. One of the SDN controller the MBAS SDN or both can be configured to determine whether a translation is required. Such determinations can be made according to one of a message header a message syntax a message grammar or lack thereof and so forth. To the extent that translation is required the translation is performed at .

Whether the request is translated or not a determination is made next as to whether the message requires interpretation at . One of the SDN controller the MBAS SDN or both can be configured to determine whether an interpretation is required. Such determinations can be made according to one of a message header a message syntax a message grammar or lack thereof and so forth. To the extent that the message does not require interpretation the message is forwarded to the enterprise network element at .

To the extent the message requires interpretation interpretation is performed at . Interpretations can be performed by one or more of the MBAS SDN element the SDN controller the AI engine or a combination thereof. Interpretations can be used to facilitated establishing one of a target enterprise a target back end service a recipient address an identity of the mobile device and or the user of the mobile device . Alternatively or in addition interpretations can be used to identify details associated with a requested service such as a time periods associated parties requested report s formats of such reports and so on. A modified request is generated based on the interpretation at and the modified request is forwarded to the enterprise network element at .

The IPTV media system can include a super head end office SHO with at least one super headend office server SHS which receives media content from satellite and or terrestrial communication systems. In the present context media content can represent for example audio content moving image content such as 2D or 3D videos video games virtual reality content still image content and combinations thereof. The SHS server can forward packets associated with the media content to one or more video head end servers VHS via a network of video head end offices VHO according to a multicast communication protocol.

The VHS can distribute multimedia broadcast content via an access network to commercial and or residential buildings housing a gateway such as a residential or commercial gateway . The access network can represent a group of digital subscriber line access multiplexers DSLAMs located in a central office or a service area interface that provide broadband services over fiber optical links or copper twisted pairs to buildings . The gateway can use communication technology to distribute broadcast signals to media processors such as Set Top Boxes STBs which in turn present broadcast channels to media devices such as computers or television sets managed in some instances by a media controller such as an infrared or RF remote controller .

The gateway the media processors and media devices can utilize tethered communication technologies such as coaxial powerline or phone line wiring or can operate over a wireless access protocol such as Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth Zigbee or other present or next generation local or personal area wireless network technologies. By way of these interfaces unicast communications can also be invoked between the media processors and subsystems of the IPTV media system for services such as video on demand VoD browsing an electronic programming guide EPG or other infrastructure services.

A satellite broadcast television system can be used in the media system of . The satellite broadcast television system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment signals transmitted by a satellite that include media content can be received by a satellite dish receiver coupled to the building . Modulated signals received by the satellite dish receiver can be transferred to the media processors for demodulating decoding encoding and or distributing broadcast channels to the media devices . The media processors can be equipped with a broadband port to an Internet Service Provider ISP network to enable interactive services such as VoD and EPG as described above.

In yet another embodiment an analog or digital cable broadcast distribution system such as cable TV system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system and or the satellite TV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment the cable TV system can also provide Internet telephony and interactive media services.

The subject disclosure can apply to other present or next generation over the air and or landline media content services system.

Some of the network elements of the IPTV media system can be coupled to one or more computing devices a portion of which can operate as a web server for providing web portal services over the ISP network to wireline media devices or wireless communication devices .

Communication system can also provide for all or a portion of the computing devices to function as a software defined network server herein referred to as SDN server . The SDN server can use computing and communication technology to perform function which can include among other things techniques described by method of . That is the SDN server can host the MBAS SDN of the carrier network. For instance function of server can be similar to the functions described for one or more of the MBAS SDN element or the SDN controller of in accordance with method . The media processors and wireless communication devices can be provisioned with software functions and respectively to utilize the services of software defined network server . For instance functions and of media processors and wireless communication devices can be similar to the functions described for the communication devices of in accordance with method .

In some embodiments the SDN server can host the MBAS SDN e element of the enterprise data center . In such instances establishment of a logical network connection can be facilitated between the MBAS SDN element shown in phantom of the mobility network servicing mobile devices .

Multiple forms of media services can be offered to media devices over landline technologies such as those described above. Additionally media services can be offered to media devices by way of a wireless access base station operating according to common wireless access protocols such as Global System for Mobile or GSM Code Division Multiple Access or CDMA Time Division Multiple Access or TDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications or UMTS World interoperability for Microwave or WiMAX Software Defined Radio or SDR Long Term Evolution or LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wide area wireless access network technologies can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

Communication system can comprise a Home Subscriber Server HSS a tElephone NUmber Mapping ENUM server and other network elements of an IMS network . The IMS network can establish communications between IMS compliant communication devices CDs Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN CDs and combinations thereof by way of a Media Gateway Control Function MGCF coupled to a PSTN network . The MGCF need not be used when a communication session involves IMS CD to IMS CD communications. A communication session involving at least one PSTN CD may utilize the MGCF .

IMS CDs can register with the IMS network by contacting a Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF which communicates with an interrogating CSCF I CSCF which in turn communicates with a Serving CSCF S CSCF to register the CDs with the HSS . To initiate a communication session between CDs an originating IMS CD can submit a Session Initiation Protocol SIP INVITE message to an originating P CSCF which communicates with a corresponding originating S CSCF . The originating S CSCF can submit the SIP INVITE message to one or more application servers ASs that can provide a variety of services to IMS subscribers.

For example the application servers can be used to perform originating call feature treatment functions on the calling party number received by the originating S CSCF in the SIP INVITE message. Originating treatment functions can include determining whether the calling party number has international calling services call ID blocking calling name blocking 7 digit dialing and or is requesting special telephony features e.g. 72 forward calls 73 cancel call forwarding 67 for caller ID blocking and so on . Based on initial filter criteria iFCs in a subscriber profile associated with a CD one or more application servers may be invoked to provide various call originating feature services.

Additionally the originating S CSCF can submit queries to the ENUM system to translate an E.164 telephone number in the SIP INVITE message to a SIP Uniform Resource Identifier URI if the terminating communication device is IMS compliant. The SIP URI can be used by an Interrogating CSCF I CSCF to submit a query to the HSS to identify a terminating S CSCF associated with a terminating IMS CD such as reference . Once identified the I CSCF can submit the SIP INVITE message to the terminating S CSCF . The terminating S CSCF can then identify a terminating P CSCF associated with the terminating CD . The P CSCF may then signal the CD to establish Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communication services thereby enabling the calling and called parties to engage in voice and or data communications. Based on the iFCs in the subscriber profile one or more application servers may be invoked to provide various call terminating feature services such as call forwarding do not disturb music tones simultaneous ringing sequential ringing etc.

In some instances the aforementioned communication process is symmetrical. Accordingly the terms originating and terminating in may be interchangeable. It is further noted that communication system can be adapted to support video conferencing. In addition communication system can be adapted to provide the IMS CDs with the multimedia and Internet services of communication system of .

If the terminating communication device is instead a PSTN CD such as CD or CD in instances where the cellular phone only supports circuit switched voice communications the ENUM system can respond with an unsuccessful address resolution which can cause the originating S CSCF to forward the call to the MGCF via a Breakout Gateway Control Function BGCF . The MGCF can then initiate the call to the terminating PSTN CD over the PSTN network to enable the calling and called parties to engage in voice and or data communications.

It is further appreciated that the CDs of can operate as wireline or wireless devices. For example the CDs of can be communicatively coupled to a cellular base station a femtocell a WiFi router a Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT base unit or another suitable wireless access unit to establish communications with the IMS network of . The cellular access base station can operate according to common wireless access protocols such as GSM CDMA TDMA UMTS WiMax SDR LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wireless network technologies can be used by one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure. Accordingly multiple wireline and wireless communication technologies can be used by the CDs of .

Cellular phones supporting LTE can support packet switched voice and packet switched data communications and thus may operate as IMS compliant mobile devices. In this embodiment the cellular base station may communicate directly with the IMS network as shown by the arrow connecting the cellular base station and the P CSCF .

Alternative forms of a CSCF can operate in a device system component or other form of centralized or distributed hardware and or software. Indeed a respective CSCF may be embodied as a respective CSCF system having one or more computers or servers either centralized or distributed where each computer or server may be configured to perform or provide in whole or in part any method step or functionality described herein in accordance with a respective CSCF. Likewise other functions servers and computers described herein including but not limited to the HSS the ENUM server the BGCF and the MGCF can be embodied in a respective system having one or more computers or servers either centralized or distributed where each computer or server may be configured to perform or provide in whole or in part any method step or functionality described herein in accordance with a respective function server or computer.

The software defined network server of can be operably coupled to communication system for purposes similar to those described above. The software defined network server can perform function and thereby provide access to back end services to the CDs and of similar to the functions described for SDN controller of in accordance with method of . CDs and which can be adapted with software to perform function to utilize the services of the software defined network server similar to the functions described for the mobile device of in accordance with method of . The software defined network server can be an integral part of the application server s performing function which can be substantially similar to function and adapted to the operations of the IMS network .

For illustration purposes only the terms S CSCF P CSCF I CSCF and so on can be server devices but may be referred to in the subject disclosure without the word server. It is also understood that any form of a CSCF server can operate in a device system component or other form of centralized or distributed hardware and software. It is further noted that these terms and other terms such as DIAMETER commands are terms can include features methodologies and or fields that may be described in whole or in part by standards bodies such as 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . It is further noted that some or all embodiments of the subject disclosure may in whole or in part modify supplement or otherwise supersede final or proposed standards published and promulgated by 3GPP.

The web portal can further be utilized to manage and provision software applications and to adapt these applications as may be desired by subscribers and or service providers of systems of and communication systems . For instance users of the services provided by the software defined network controller or software defined network server can log into their on line accounts and provision the servers or server . The users can provide information such as personal identity information equipment identification security information target back end services anticipated requested services such as particular reports formats data sources and so on. Service providers can log onto an administrator account to provision monitor and or maintain the systems of or the software defined network server .

Communication device can comprise a wireline and or wireless transceiver herein transceiver a user interface UI a power supply a location receiver a motion sensor an orientation sensor and a controller for managing operations thereof. The transceiver can support short range or long range wireless access technologies such as Bluetooth ZigBee WiFi DECT or cellular communication technologies just to mention a few Bluetooth and ZigBee are trademarks registered by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and the ZigBee Alliance respectively . Cellular technologies can include for example CDMA 1X UMTS HSDPA GSM GPRS TDMA EDGE EV DO WiMAX SDR LTE as well as other next generation wireless communication technologies as they arise. The transceiver can also be adapted to support circuit switched wireline access technologies such as PSTN packet switched wireline access technologies such as TCP IP VoIP etc. and combinations thereof.

The UI can include a depressible or touch sensitive keypad with a navigation mechanism such as a roller ball a joystick a mouse or a navigation disk for manipulating operations of the communication device . The keypad can be an integral part of a housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device operably coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a USB cable or a wireless interface supporting for example Bluetooth . The keypad can represent a numeric keypad commonly used by phones and or a QWERTY keypad with alphanumeric keys. The UI can further include a display such as monochrome or color LCD Liquid Crystal Display OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode or other suitable display technology for conveying images to an end user of the communication device . In an embodiment where the display is touch sensitive a portion or all of the keypad can be presented by way of the display with navigation features.

The display can use touch screen technology to also serve as a user interface for detecting user input. As a touch screen display the communication device can be adapted to present a user interface with graphical user interface GUI elements that can be selected by a user with a touch of a finger. The touch screen display can be equipped with capacitive resistive or other forms of sensing technology to detect how much surface area of a user s finger has been placed on a portion of the touch screen display. This sensing information can be used to control the manipulation of the GUI elements or other functions of the user interface. The display can be an integral part of the housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device communicatively coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a cable or a wireless interface.

The UI can also include an audio system that utilizes audio technology for conveying low volume audio such as audio heard in proximity of a human ear and high volume audio such as speakerphone for hands free operation . The audio system can further include a microphone for receiving audible signals of an end user. The audio system can also be used for voice recognition applications. The UI can further include an image sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD camera for capturing still or moving images.

The power supply can utilize common power management technologies such as replaceable and rechargeable batteries supply regulation technologies and or charging system technologies for supplying energy to the components of the communication device to facilitate long range or short range portable applications. Alternatively or in combination the charging system can utilize external power sources such as DC power supplied over a physical interface such as a USB port or other suitable tethering technologies.

The location receiver can utilize location technology such as a global positioning system GPS receiver capable of assisted GPS for identifying a location of the communication device based on signals generated by a constellation of GPS satellites which can be used for facilitating location services such as navigation. The motion sensor can utilize motion sensing technology such as an accelerometer a gyroscope or other suitable motion sensing technology to detect motion of the communication device in three dimensional space. The orientation sensor can utilize orientation sensing technology such as a magnetometer to detect the orientation of the communication device north south west and east as well as combined orientations in degrees minutes or other suitable orientation metrics .

The communication device can use the transceiver to also determine a proximity to a cellular WiFi Bluetooth or other wireless access points by sensing techniques such as utilizing a received signal strength indicator RSSI and or signal time of arrival TOA or time of flight TOF measurements. The controller can utilize computing technologies such as a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or a video processor with associated storage memory such as Flash ROM RAM SRAM DRAM or other storage technologies for executing computer instructions controlling and processing data supplied by the aforementioned components of the communication device .

Other components not shown in can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure. For instance the communication device can include a reset button not shown . The reset button can be used to reset the controller of the communication device . In yet another embodiment the communication device can also include a factory default setting button positioned for example below a small hole in a housing assembly of the communication device to force the communication device to re establish factory settings. In this embodiment a user can use a protruding object such as a pen or paper clip tip to reach into the hole and depress the default setting button. The communication device can also include a slot for adding or removing an identity module such as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card. SIM cards can be used for identifying subscriber services executing programs storing subscriber data and so forth.

The communication device as described herein can operate with more or less of the circuit components shown in . These variant embodiments can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

The communication device can be adapted to perform the functions of devices of the media processor the media devices or the portable communication devices of as well as the IMS CDs and PSTN CDs of . It will be appreciated that the communication device can also represent other devices that can operate in systems of communication systems of such as a gaming console and a media player.

The communication device shown in or portions thereof can serve as a representation of one or more of the devices of system of communication system and communication system . In addition the controller can be adapted in various embodiments to perform the functions and respectively.

Upon reviewing the aforementioned embodiments it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that said embodiments can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope of the claims described below. For example the software defined network elements disclosed herein can be applied to stationary communication devices such as desktop computers media processors circuit switched communication devices and so forth. Still other applications include the SDN controller coordinating or otherwise managing message traffic between a multitude of MBAS SDN elements and a multitude of cloud service providers or enterprise data centers. Other embodiments can be used in the subject disclosure.

It should be understood that devices described in the exemplary embodiments can be in communication with each other via various wireless and or wired methodologies. The methodologies can be links that are described as coupled connected and so forth which can include unidirectional and or bidirectional communication over wireless paths and or wired paths that utilize one or more of various protocols or methodologies where the coupling and or connection can be direct e.g. no intervening processing device and or indirect e.g. an intermediary processing device such as a router .

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet a smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a communication device of the subject disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methods discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor or controller e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel or a solid state display . The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device . In distributed environments the embodiments described in the subject disclosure can be adapted to utilize multiple display units controlled by two or more computer systems . In this configuration presentations described by the subject disclosure may in part be shown in a first of the display units while the remaining portion is presented in a second of the display units .

The disk drive unit may include a tangible computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methods or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute tangible computer readable storage media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Application specific integrated circuits and programmable logic array can use downloadable instructions for executing state machines and or circuit configurations to implement embodiments of the subject disclosure. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

It is appreciated that implementation of the techniques disclosed herein such as the MBAS SDN elements allow the network carrier to implement services that are generally not currently available. Such services are likely to disrupt the mobile application market with respect to how back end services are implemented. It is also envisioned that a carrier offering the types of features disclosed herein can generate a revenue stream. Revenue can be obtained from merely hosting the MBAS SDN elements to message processing storage automatic reporting personalization features and so on. Such revenue could be obtained from cloud service providers enterprise customers and or end users.

In accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure the operations or methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs or instructions running on or executed by a computer processor or other computing device and which may include other forms of instructions manifested as a state machine implemented with logic components in an application specific integrated circuit or field programmable gate array. Furthermore software implementations e.g. software programs instructions etc. including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein. It is further noted that a computing device such as a processor a controller a state machine or other suitable device for executing instructions to perform operations or methods may perform such operations directly or indirectly by way of one or more intermediate devices directed by the computing device.

While the tangible computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term tangible computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods of the subject disclosure. The term non transitory as in a non transitory computer readable storage includes without limitation memories drives devices and anything tangible but not a signal per se.

The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape or other tangible media which can be used to store information. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a tangible computer readable storage medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are from time to time superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Wireless standards for device detection e.g. RFID short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Zigbee and long range communications e.g. WiMAX GSM CDMA LTE can be used by computer system .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The exemplary embodiments can include combinations of features and or steps from multiple embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement which achieves the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the embodiments described or shown by the subject disclosure. The subject disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein can be used in the subject disclosure. For instance one or more features from one or more embodiments can be combined with one or more features of one or more other embodiments. In one or more embodiments features that are positively recited can also be negatively recited and excluded from the embodiment with or without replacement by another structural and or functional feature. The steps or functions described with respect to the embodiments of the subject disclosure can be performed in any order. The steps or functions described with respect to the embodiments of the subject disclosure can be performed alone or in combination with other steps or functions of the subject disclosure as well as from other embodiments or from other steps that have not been described in the subject disclosure. Further more than or less than all of the features described with respect to an embodiment can also be utilized.

Less than all of the steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can also be performed in one or more of the exemplary embodiments. Further the use of numerical terms to describe a device component step or function such as first second third and so forth is not intended to describe an order or function unless expressly stated so. The use of the terms first second third and so forth is generally to distinguish between devices components steps or functions unless expressly stated otherwise. Additionally one or more devices or components described with respect to the exemplary embodiments can facilitate one or more functions where the facilitating e.g. facilitating access or facilitating establishing a connection can include less than every step needed to perform the function or can include all of the steps needed to perform the function.

In one or more embodiments a processor which can include a controller or circuit has been described that performs various functions. It should be understood that the processor can be multiple processors which can include distributed processors or parallel processors in a single machine or multiple machines. The processor can be used in supporting a virtual processing environment. The virtual processing environment may support one or more virtual machines representing computers servers or other computing devices. In such virtual machines components such as microprocessors and storage devices may be virtualized or logically represented. The processor can include a state machine application specific integrated circuit and or programmable gate array including a Field PGA. In one or more embodiments when a processor executes instructions to perform operations this can include the processor performing the operations directly and or facilitating directing or cooperating with another device or component to perform the operations.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

