---

title: Automatic detection of expansion component irrigation controller
abstract: The disclosure extends to apparatuses, methods, systems, and computer program products for generating and optimizing irrigation protocols. The disclosure also extends to a system and method for detecting an expansion module in an irrigation system in accordance with the disclosed methods, systems, and computer program products for optimizing water usage in growing plants for yard and crops.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09297839&OS=09297839&RS=09297839
owner: Skydrop Holdings, LLC
number: 09297839
owner_city: Highland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140701
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 841 828 filed on Jul. 1 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 924 154 filed on Jan. 6 2014 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties including but not limited to those portions that specifically appear hereinafter the incorporation by reference being made with the following exception In the event that any portion of the above referenced applications is inconsistent with this application this application supersedes said above referenced applications.

This application is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 315 264 filed Jun. 25 2014 entitled COMPENSATING FOR MUNICIPAL RESTRICTIONS WITHIN IRRIGATION PROTOCOLS and this application is also a continuation in part of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 315 267 filed Jun. 25 2014 entitled BACKUP WATERING INSTRUCTIONS AND IRRIGATION PROTOCOLS WHEN CONNECTION TO A NETWORK IS LOST which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties including but not limited to those portions that specifically appear hereinafter the incorporation by reference being made with the following exception In the event that any portion of the above referenced applications is inconsistent with this application this application supersedes said portion of said above referenced applications.

With the increased desire for water conservation while maintaining healthy yard and crops it has become important to use the advances in technology and communication systems to provide efficient use of water resources. Many irrigation systems and irrigation hardware are crude or unduly complicated resulting in the existing systems being used at non optimal levels.

What is needed are methods systems and computer program implemented products for regulating irrigation in areas that are predictable and often over watered because caretakers and or older irrigations systems are not responsive enough to effectively conserve water while maintaining aesthetically pleasing or healthy landscapes. The disclosure addresses the above needs by providing methods systems and computer program implemented products for regulating the use of water over a computer network by generating irrigation protocols and sending those protocols over the computer network.

The disclosure extends to apparatuses methods systems and computer program products for optimizing water usage in growing plants for yard and crops. The disclosure also extends to apparatuses methods systems and computer program implemented products for regulating the use of water over a computer network by generating irrigation protocols and sending those protocols over the computer network. The disclosure discloses embodiments and implementation of improved control units optimizing water use and additional environmental conditions. In the following description of the disclosure reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific implementations in which the disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other implementations may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

It will be appreciated that the disclosure also extends to methods systems and computer program products for smart watering utilizing up to date weather data interpreting that weather data and using that interpreted weather data to send irrigation protocols with computer implemented instructions to a controller. The controller may be electronically and directly connected to a plumbing system that may have at least one electronically actuated control valve for controlling the flow of water through the plumbing system where the controller may be configured for sending actuation signals to the at least one control valve thereby controlling water flow through the plumbing system in an efficient and elegant manner to effectively conserve water while maintaining aesthetically pleasing or healthy landscapes.

As used herein the terms environment and environmental is used to denote influence able areas and conditions that can be adjusted by operable components of a system. For example a landscape environment can be optimally irrigated or lit with operable components of corresponding systems such as sprinkler systems and lighting systems.

Additionally it should be noted that an embodiment may comprise a plurality of visual outputs and other components of the control unit such as the user input may be configured to output visual information. Analog visual outputs may be provided by components such as bulbs and the like. Digital visual outputs may be provided by components such as liquid crystal displays light emitting diodes electro luminescent devices to name a few. In an embodiment the control unit may further comprise an electronic audible device either digital or analog for audibly outputting information to a user. Additionally it should be noted that an embodiment may comprise a plurality of audible outputs and other components of the control unit may be configured to output audible information. Analog audible outputs may be provided by components such as speakers mechanical clicks etc. Digital audible outputs may be provided by components such as piezo electric circuits and speakers. It should also be appreciated that the housing may be configured to be substantially weather resistant such that it can be installed and used outdoors. It will be appreciated that the controller may be electronically and directly connected to a plumbing system such as an irrigation sprinkler system that may have at least one electronically actuated control valve for controlling the flow of water through the plumbing system. Additionally the controller may be configured for sending actuation signals to the at least one control valve thereby controlling water flow through the plumbing system in an efficient and elegant manner to effectively conserve water while maintaining aesthetically pleasing or healthy landscapes. It should be understood that in an implementation the controller may further comprise memory for recording irrigation iteration data for a plurality of iterations after a plurality of irrigation protocols have been executed. In an implementation the controller of a system and method may further record irrigation iteration data into memory in case communication with an irrigation server is interrupted.

In an implementation each zone may have different watering needs. Each zone may be associated with a certain control valve that allows water into the plumbing that services each area which corresponds to each zone. As can be seen in the figure a zone may be a lawn area a garden area a tree area a flower bed area a shrub area another plant type area or any combination of the above. It will be appreciated that zones may be designated using various factors. In an implementation zones may be designated by the amount of shade an area gets. In an implementation zones may be defined according to soil type amount of slope present plant or crop type and the like. In some implementations one or more zones may comprise drip systems or one or more sprinkler systems thereby providing alternative methods of delivering water to a zone.

It will be appreciated as illustrated in that a landscape may have a complex mix of zones or zone types with each zone having separate watering needs. Many current watering systems employ a controller for controlling the timing of the opening and closing of the valves within the plumbing system such that each zone may be watered separately. These controllers or control systems usually run on low voltage platforms and control solenoid type valves that are either completely open or completely closed by the actuation from a control signal. Often control systems may have a timing device to aid in the water intervals and watering times. Controllers have remained relatively simple but as disclosed herein below in more detail more sophisticated controllers or systems will provide optimization of the amount of water used through networked connectivity and user interaction as initiated by the system.

The system may further comprise a rule protocol generator using data from a plurality of databases for generating an irrigation protocol wherein the generation of an irrigation protocol is initiated in part in response to at least an input by a user. It should be noted that the network mentioned above could be a cloud computing network and or the Internet and or part of a closed private network without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

In an implementation access may be granted to third party service providers through worker terminals that may connect to the system through the network . The service providers may be granted pro status on the system and may be shown more options through a user interface because of their knowledge and experience for example in landscaping plumbing and or other experience. In an implementation worker terminals may be a portable computing device such as portable computer tablet smart phone PDA and or the like.

An additional feature of the system may be to provide notices or notifications to users of changes that impact their irrigation protocol. For example an implementation may provide notice to a home owner user that its professional lawn service has made changes through a worker terminal . An implementation may provide a user the ability to ratify changes made by others or to reject any changes.

In an implementation an irrigation system may comprise a plurality of control valves wherein each control valve corresponds to a zone of irrigation.

In an implementation user communication may be facilitated through a mobile application on a mobile device configured for communicating with the irrigation protocol server . One or more notifications may be provided as push notifications to provide real time responsiveness from the users to the system .

The system may further comprise an interval timer for controlling the timing of when the notifications are sent to users or customers such that users customers are contacted at useful intervals. For example the system may initiate contact with a user after predetermined interval of time has passed for the modifications to the irrigation protocol to take effect in the landscape for example in plants shrubs grass trees and other landscape.

In an implementation the notifications may ask the user to provide information or indicia regarding such things as soil type of a zone crop type of a zone irrigation start time time intervals during which irrigation is occurring the condition of each zone or other types of information or objective indicia.

Illustrated in is an exemplary crop grass root zone showing roots in various soil types. Referring to it will be appreciated that the optimization of the irrigation and plumbing system is to provide the requisite water needed to maintain a healthy landscape and no more. Thus the general understanding is that the amount of water that is lost during evapotranspiration per zone must be replenished at each irrigation start and run time. It will be appreciated that evapotranspiration is the amount of water lost from the sum of transpiration and evaporation. The U.S. Geological Survey defines evapotranspiration as water lost to the atmosphere from the ground surface evaporation from the capillary fringe of the groundwater table and the transpiration of groundwater by plants whose roots tap the capillary fringe of the groundwater table. Evapotranspiration may be defined as loss of water from the soil both by evaporation from the soil surface and by transpiration from the leaves of the plants growing on it. It will be appreciated and understood that factors that affect the rate of evapotranspiration include the amount of solar radiation atmospheric vapor pressure temperature wind and soil moisture. Evapotranspiration accounts for most of the water lost from the soil during the growth of a plant or crop. Accurately estimating evapotranspiration rates is an advantageous factor in not only planning irrigation schemes but also in formulating irrigation protocols to be executed by a controller to efficiently use water resources.

Illustrated in is an example of grass and its root zone . Also illustrated is an example of the various soil types that may be present per zone such as clay silt or sand etc. It will be appreciated that the landscape may be considered healthy and water use and conservation may be considered optimal when the irrigation and plumbing system function or operate to replenish the water in the root zone when water is present at about 50 in the root zone . Thus when water is present in the root zone in an amount greater than about 50 then the duration of the watering for that zone is shortened. Conversely when water is present in the root zone in an amount less than about 50 then the duration of the watering for that zone is increased. The objective is to replenish the soil with water in the root zone to 100 and no more to optimize and conserve the amount the water used to maintain a healthy landscape. It will be appreciated that any amount of water over 100 saturation in the root zone leads to water runoff that is not efficiently used. Thus it will be appreciated that the ability to accurately determine the amount of water present in the soil may be advantageous for optimizing irrigation in an irrigation system.

The control unit may further comprise an electronic visual display either digital or analog for visually outputting information to a user. Additionally it should be noted that an embodiment may comprise a plurality of visual outputs and other components of the control unit such as the user input may be configured to output visual information. Analog visual outputs may be provided by components such as bulbs and the like. Digital visual outputs may be provided by components such as liquid crystal displays light emitting diodes electro luminescent devices to name a few. In an embodiment the control unit may further comprise an electronic audible device either digital or analog for audibly outputting information to a user. Additionally it should be noted that an embodiment may comprise a plurality of audible outputs and other components of the control unit may be configured to output audible information. Analog audible outputs may be provided by components such as speakers mechanical clicks etc. Digital audible outputs may be provided by components such as piezo electric circuits and speakers. It should also be appreciated that the housing may be configured to be substantially weather resistant such that it can be installed and used outdoors. It will be appreciated that the controller may be electronically and directly connected to a plumbing system such as an irrigation sprinkler system that may have at least one electronically actuated control valve for controlling the flow of water through the plumbing system. Additionally the controller may be configured for sending actuation signals to the at least one control valve thereby controlling water flow through the plumbing system in an efficient and elegant manner to effectively conserve water while maintaining aesthetically pleasing or healthy landscapes. It should be understood that in an implementation the controller may further comprise memory for recording irrigation iteration data for a plurality of iterations after a plurality of irrigation protocols have been executed. In an implementation the controller of a system and method may further record irrigation iteration data into memory in case communication with an irrigation server is interrupted.

Computer storage media devices includes RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM solid state drives SSDs e.g. based on RAM Flash memory phase change memory PCM other types of memory other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer.

A network is defined as one or more data links that enable the transport of electronic data between computer systems and or modules and or other electronic devices. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a transmission medium. Transmission media can include a network and or data links which can be used to carry desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Further upon reaching various computer system components program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures can be transferred automatically from transmission media to computer storage media devices or vice versa . For example computer executable instructions or data structures received over a network or data link can be buffered in RAM within a network interface module e.g. a NIC and then eventually transferred to computer system RAM and or to less volatile computer storage media devices at a computer system. RAM can also include solid state drives SSDs or PCIx based real time memory tiered storage such as FusionIO . Thus it should be understood that computer storage media devices can be included in computer system components that also or even primarily utilize transmission media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which when executed at a processor cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language or even source code.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers desktop computers laptop computers message processors hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers mobile telephones PDAs tablets pagers routers switches various storage devices commodity hardware commodity computers and the like. The disclosure may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local and remote computer systems which are linked either by hardwired data links wireless data links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless data links through a network both perform tasks. In a distributed system environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Implementations of the disclosure can also be used in cloud computing environments. In this description and the following claims cloud computing is defined as a model for enabling ubiquitous convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be rapidly provisioned via virtualization and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction and then scaled accordingly. A cloud model can be composed of various characteristics e.g. on demand self service broad network access resource pooling rapid elasticity measured service or any suitable characteristic now known to those of ordinary skill in the field or later discovered service models e.g. Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS Infrastructure as a Service IaaS and deployment models e.g. private cloud community cloud public cloud hybrid cloud or any suitable service type model now known to those of ordinary skill in the field or later discovered . Databases and servers described with respect to the disclosure can be included in a cloud model.

Further where appropriate functions described herein can be performed in one or more of hardware software firmware digital components or analog components. For example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs can be programmed to carry out one or more of the systems and procedures described herein. Certain terms are used throughout the following description and claims to refer to particular system components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate components may be referred to by different names. This document does not intend to distinguish between components that differ in name but not function.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example computing device such as a controller control unit is illustrated. Computing device may be used to perform various procedures such as those discussed herein. Computing device can function as a server a client or any other computing entity. Computing device can perform various monitoring functions as discussed herein and can execute one or more application programs such as the application programs described herein. Computing device can be any of a wide variety of computing devices such as a desktop computer a notebook computer a server computer a handheld computer tablet computer and the like.

Computing device includes one or more processor s one or more memory device s one or more interface s one or more mass storage device s one or more Input Output I O device s and a display device all of which are coupled to a bus . Processor s include one or more processors or controllers that execute instructions stored in memory device s and or mass storage device s . Processor s may also include various types of computer readable media such as cache memory.

Memory device s include various computer readable media such as volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile memory e.g. read only memory ROM . Memory device s may also include rewritable ROM such as Flash memory.

Mass storage device s include various computer readable media such as magnetic tapes magnetic disks optical disks solid state memory e.g. Flash memory and so forth. As shown in a particular mass storage device is a hard disk drive . Various drives may also be included in mass storage device s to enable reading from and or writing to the various computer readable media. Mass storage device s include removable media and or non removable media.

I O device s include various devices that allow data and or other information to be input to or retrieved from computing device . Example I O device s include cursor control devices keyboards keypads microphones monitors or other display devices speakers printers network interface cards modems annular jog dials and the like.

Display device includes any type of device capable of displaying information to one or more users of computing device . Examples of display device include a monitor display terminal video projection device and the like.

Interface s include various interfaces that allow computing device to interact with other systems devices or computing environments. Example interface s may include any number of different network interfaces such as interfaces to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wireless networks and the Internet. Other interface s include user interface and peripheral device interface . The interface s may also include one or more user interface elements . The interface s may also include one or more peripheral interfaces such as interfaces for printers pointing devices mice track pad or any suitable user interface now known to those of ordinary skill in the field or later discovered keyboards and the like.

Additionally Bus may allow sensors to communicate with other computing components. Sensors may alternatively communicate through other components such as I O devices and various peripheral interfaces.

Bus allows processor s memory device s interface s mass storage device s and I O device s to communicate with one another as well as other devices or components coupled to bus . Bus represents one or more of several types of bus structures such as a system bus PCI bus IEEE 1394 bus USB bus and so forth.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components are shown herein as discrete blocks although it is understood that such programs and components may reside at various times in different storage components of computing device and are executed by processor s . Alternatively the systems and procedures described herein can be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware software and or firmware. For example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs can be programmed to carry out one or more of the systems and procedures described herein.

As illustrated the current embodiment of a controller may comprise a control unit for interfacing with users and networks and an irrigation adaptor for electronically actuating irrigation components. As discussed above a control unit may comprise a housing and a user input . In an implementation the user input may have a generally circular or annular form factor that is easily manipulated by a user to input data and to provide responses to queries. As will be discussed in more detail below the user input may provide receive a plurality of input movements such as for example rotation speed of rotation push and click click duration double click and the like. The control unit may further comprise an electronic visual display either digital or analog for visually outputting information to a user. Additionally it should be noted that an embodiment may comprise a plurality of visual outputs and other components of the control unit such as the user input may be configured to output visual information. Analog visual outputs may be provided by components such as bulbs and the like. Digital visual outputs may be provided by components such as liquid crystal displays light emitting diodes electro luminescent devices to name a few. In an embodiment the control unit may further comprise an electronic audible device either digital or analog for audibly outputting information to a user. Additionally it should be noted that an embodiment may comprise a plurality of audible outputs and other components of the control unit may be configured to output audible information. Analog audible outputs may be provided by components such as speakers mechanical clicks etc. Digital audible outputs may be provided by components such as piezo electric circuits and speakers. It should also be appreciated that the housing may be configured to be substantially weather resistant such that it can be installed and used outdoors. It will be appreciated that the controller may be electronically and directly connected to a plumbing system such as an irrigation sprinkler system that may have at least one electronically actuated control valve for controlling the flow of water through the plumbing system. Additionally the control unit may be configured for sending actuation signals to the at least one control valve thereby controlling water flow through the plumbing system in an efficient and elegant manner to effectively conserve water while maintaining aesthetically pleasing or healthy landscapes. It should be understood that in an implementation the controller may further comprise memory for recording irrigation iteration data for a plurality of iterations after a plurality of irrigation protocols have been executed. In an implementation the controller of a system and method may further record irrigation iteration data into memory in case communication with an irrigation server is interrupted.

In the present embodiment the control unit may communicate with the adaptor through and electronic connector in a stacked configuration. As can be seen in the figure adaptor may comprise an adaptor housing for protecting inside components. Electronic access to internal components of the adaptor may be provided by a wire access port whereby wire may carry electric actuation signals from the adaptor to operable components of an irrigation system such as solenoids through the housing as illustrated further in .

In an embodiment an irrigation adaptor may comprise analog audible outputs may be provided by components such as speakers mechanical clicks etc. Digital audible outputs may be provided by components such as piezo electric circuits and speakers. It should also be appreciated that the housing may be configured to be substantially weather resistant such that it can be installed and used outdoors.

In an embodiment an irrigation adaptor may comprise wireless communication interfaces for communication with other components such as sprinklers drippers control units and servers.

As can be seen in an embodiment of the adaptor may comprise attachment structures that correspond to complimentary control unit attachment structures of . The attachments may be configured with known or yet to be discovered attachment structures such as protrusions male female structures and common fasteners. For example the attachment structures may comprise male and female portions that interact and mate mechanically in a detachable manner allowing for expansion of the system and maintenance. Magnets may be used for physically connecting a control unit to an adaptor. Other examples could be all manner of fasteners such as screws bolts nails and the like.

Additionally in an embodiment the control unit is in electronic communication with the irrigation adaptor through an electronic connector. As can be seen in the figures the adaptor may comprise a first half of an electronic connector while the control unit comprises a corresponding second half of an electronic connector . In a stacked embodiment for example the attachment structures may be configured so as to cause the alignment of the first and second halves of the electronic connectors . Connector combinations may include male and female biased compression and friction configurations to provide secure electronic communications. For example the control unit may comprise a male electronic connector as shown in that corresponds with a female electronic connector as best shown in .

It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the irrigation adaptor and the control unit may communicate wirelessly with each other.

As seen in the figure an embodiment of an irrigation adaptor may further comprise a membrane layer for providing weather resistance. It should be understood that the membrane layer may comprise openings therein for allowing wires mechanical connections and electrical connections there through. In some embodiments a plurality of membranes may be used. As can be seen in the figure a wire port may comprise a membrane therein to provide some weather resistance where the irrigation system wires illustrated in enter the irrigation adaptor .

In an embodiment an irrigation adaptor may have a wire port on the back surface of the irrigation adaptor housing in order to hide the entry of wires. It will be appreciated that it is within the scope of this disclosure to include ports on any side of the adaptor depending on the immediate needs of the installation.

Illustrated in is an exploded detailed view of a user input . As can be seen in the figure a user input may comprise a plurality of coaxial aligned components. An implementation may comprise a contact ring that is configured to be in contact with a user s hand during use. An implementation may further comprise a position ring that aids in the incremental digitalization of a user s input as discussed below. An embodiment may comprise a light tube and light diffuser the work together to transmit and control the quality of illumination from an internal light sources or plurality of light sources. In an embodiment an annular user input may be configured to interact with a user and the display to receive user input thereby and wherein the annular user input defines a circular opening that passes through the annular input and the housing and wherein the annular user input and the circular opening are coaxial such that annular user input rotates about an axis of the circular opening. In use the opening of in the annular user input would allow the illumination from the user input to attractively illuminate the surface that the controller is attached to.

Additionally the annular user input may further comprise a float ring that is configure to provide consistent movement of the user input and to provide selection protrusions thereon to aid users in making selections with the annular user input as discussed in more detail below. It will be appreciated that an embodiment may provide a user with the ability to click double click and click hold in order to select input values.

Illustrated in is an exploded view of the working components of an annular user input as it interacts with a circuit board housed within a control unit. The circuit board may comprise a single substrate supporting a plurality of light emitting diodes and at least one positions sensing circuit. As discussed above the light emitting diodes may provide light to the annular user input to provide ease of use and visual cues. The user input may comprise a light tube for collecting the light of the LEDs . A diffuser ring may be employed to evenly distribute the light from the LEDs. The user input may comprise a position ring having a plurality of evenly place protrusions thereon that correspond to the positions sensor to detect the rotation of the position ring in order to digitize a user s desired information for storage in computer memory within the system illustrated in further detail in . The user input may also comprise a float ring that provides smooth and consistent operation of the user input by producing predictable friction and even spacing during operation. Additionally the float ring may comprise selection protrusions thereon for actuating receptors on the circuit board when a user pushes the user input to make a selection. It should be appreciated that a float ring may comprise a plurality of selection protrusions in order to provide consistent selection operation throughout the entire circumference of the annular user input.

Referring now to there is illustrated an implementation pairing between a user s control unit and an account such as a web account. illustrates a method for initiation of an irrigation optimization system having the features of the disclosure. The method may initiate at by determining the language the user will use in interacting with the system. The user selection will be recorded into computer memory on the system. At the geo graphical location of the user may then be determined and at the geographical location may be further refined more specific questions. Once the location has been established the system may then establish connectivity with a cloud network.

At the network connectivity may be skipped and at a user may be asked to manually set up a watering protocol by responding to questions from the control panel. At a watering protocol of instructions will be generated and at irrigation may begin automatically.

Alternatively a user may be presented with available Wi Fi connection options and may choose the desired connection or at a user may enter custom network settings. Once connected to the network cloud at the control panel may be paired with an online account previously or concurrently set up through a web interface.

At a watering protocol may be generated and transmitted through the cloud to the paired controller wherein the watering instruction are formulated from user responses to quires output from the system through the web account or through the control panel user interface. At the system may begin the watering protocol that has been received from the cloud network.

At the user may be prompted to set up a connection to a cloud network through a Wi Fi internet connection. At the user may be prompted to choose whether or not connect to the cloud or run the irrigation system manually from the control panel.

If the user decides not to connect to the internet at the user will be prompted to enter data in manually such as data and time. At the user may be prompted to manually select or enter an irrigation interval or days to water. If the user chooses to enter an interval at the user will be prompted to enter the interval. Alternatively if the use selects to irrigate according to days at the user will be prompted to enter the days for irrigation. It should be noted that in an implementation the user may be able to select both irrigation days and irrigation intervals.

At the user will be prompted to enter a duration and or day for each of the zones controlled by the control panel. At if the user had chosen connect to a network the user would be prompted to select from available networks at or enter security information for a custom network at . At the user may be prompted for a password. At if the password fails the user will be redirected to or to retry the network security information. At if connecting to the internet is successful at a pairing request will be sent to the control panel that will pair a cloud base web account to the control panel. Additionally at pairing codes may be established for a plurality of computing devices comprising additional controllers mobile devices computers etc.

In an embodiment the expansion module may provide connectivity of additional system components such as various sensing abilities through the connection of flow sensors temperature sensors moister sensors light sensors wind sensors and the like.

In an embodiment the expansion module may provide communication and control functionality such as wireless control of remotely placed irrigation components.

As can be seen in an embodiment of the expansion module may comprise attachment structures that correspond to complimentary attachment structures on the control unit and adaptor . The attachments may be configured with known or yet to be discovered attachment structures such as protrusions male female structures and common fasteners. For example the attachment structures may comprise male and female portions that interact and mate mechanically in a detachable manner allowing for expansion and maintenance of the system. Magnets may be used for physically connecting a control unit to an adaptor. Other examples could be all manner of fasteners such as screws bolts nails and the like.

Additionally in an embodiment the control unit may be in electronic communication and mechanical communication with the irrigation adaptor through an expansion module . As can be seen in the figure the adaptor may comprise one half of an electronic connector and the control unit may comprise a corresponding one half of an electronic connector show schematically in phantom lines that both electronically connect to corresponding electronic connector halves on opposing faces of the expansion module .

In a stacked embodiment for example the attachment structures may be configured so as to cause the alignment of the first and second halves of the electronic connectors. Connector combinations may include male and female connectors biased compression connectors and friction connector configurations to provide secure electronic communications. For example the control unit may comprise a male electronic connector as shown in phantom lines that corresponds with a female electronic connector of the expansion module . Likewise the control unit may be mechanically connected to the expansion module in order to complete an expanded controller.

In an implementation sensing the current draw may comprise comparing the value of the current draw to an operational threshold window comparator. If the value of the current draw falls within a predetermined threshold or window then there is an operable component attached to the system and is useable by the system. At that point the system may go through a setup process described herein above. For example it will be appreciated that when a current voltage is sent across a sense resistor the result is compared to two other preset voltages that define the thresholds window of operation. If the value of the current voltage falls outside of the thresholds window then there is either no new operable component or there is a faulty operable component attached to the system.

At the method may further include the process of comparing the new sensed irrigation component to the baseline configuration comprising any previously attached components in order to discover the new components.

At the method may further comprise establishing a new baseline configuration that includes the newly attached irrigation component. Once the new baseline configuration is established then the new configuration may be stored in memory for later use when adding new components or for performing future iterations as when additional operable components are discovered or installed.

Illustrated in is a method for developing a protocol for newly added irrigation components using a lookup table and user selection process. As illustrated in the figure a method for the detection of added operable irrigation components at system startup may comprise a process of powering on an irrigation system having added operable irrigation components that are in electronic communication with an irrigation controller at . In an implementation the irrigation controller may be configured for use as a component of a computer network. The irrigation controller may comprise a control unit and an irrigation adaptor. The adaptor may be configured to actuate operable irrigation components that operate according to instructions issued from the control unit. Additionally the method may comprise retrieving a baseline configuration from computer memory at . The baseline configuration may comprise the components that have previously been installed within a system such as within an irrigation system discussed herein. At the method may further comprise sensing a new attached operable irrigation component. The sensing process may comprise receiving self identifying information from the newly installed components or may be derived by sensing various electrical characteristics of the system such as current draw resistance inductance impedance etc. as electrical current flows through the system.

In an implementation sensing the current draw may comprise comparing the value of the current draw to an operational threshold window comparator. If the value of the current draw falls within a predetermined threshold or window then there is an operable component attached to the system and is useable by the system. At that point the system may go through a setup process described herein above. For example it will be appreciated that when a current voltage is sent across a sense resistor the result is compared to two other preset voltages that define the thresholds window of operation. If the value of the current voltage falls outside of the thresholds window then there is either no new operable component or there is a faulty operable component attached to the system.

At the method may further include the process of comparing the new sensed irrigation component to a baseline configuration comprising any previously attached components in order to discover the new components.

At the method may further comprise establishing a new baseline configuration that includes the newly attached irrigation component and then storing the new configuration in memory for later use when adding new components or for performing future iterations as additional operable components are discovered.

At the method may further comprise storing the new baseline in memory. At the method may further comprise retrieving a lookup table from memory that comprises data relating to possible operable irrigating components. The lookup table may be periodically downloaded over a network so as to contain updated information. The lookup table may comprise identifying information for components such as identifiers and electrical properties such as current draw resistance impedance etc.

At a plurality of possible new operable irrigation components is a group may be output to a user so that the user may select the exact component from the list. At the selection may be received from a user and stored in memory.

Illustrated in is a method for developing a protocol for a plurality of newly added irrigation components in succession at the startup of a system. As illustrated in the figure a method for the detection of added operable irrigation components at system startup may comprise a process of powering on an irrigation system having added operable irrigation components that are in electronic communication with an irrigation controller at . In an implementation the irrigation controller may be configured for use as a component of a computer network said irrigation controller comprising a control unit and an irrigation adaptor. The adaptor may be configured to actuate operable irrigation components that operate according to instructions issued from the control unit. Additionally the method may comprise retrieving a baseline configuration from computer memory at . The baseline configuration may comprise the components that have previously been installed within a system.

At the method may further comprise sensing a new attached operable irrigation component. The sensing process may comprise receiving self identifying information from the newly installed components or may be derived by sensing various electrical characteristics of the system such as current draw resistance inductance impedance etc. as electrical current flows through the system.

If a plurality of new components have been attached or installed to the system the following may be repeated in sequence until all the newly added components are accounted for as is illustrated in the figure. At the method may further include the process of comparing the new sensed irrigation component or components to a baseline configuration comprising any previously attached components in order to discover the new component or components.

At the method may further comprise establishing a new baseline configuration that includes the newly attached irrigation component and then storing the new configuration in memory for later use when adding new components or for performing future iterations as additional operable components are discovered at .

At the method may further comprise retrieving a lookup table from memory that comprises data relating to possible operable irrigating components. The lookup table may be periodically downloaded over a network so as to contain updated information. The lookup table may comprise identifying information for components such as identifiers and electrical properties such as current draw resistance impedance etc.

In an implementation sensing the current draw may comprise comparing the value of the current draw to an operational threshold window comparator. If the value of the current draw falls within a predetermined threshold or window then there is an operable component attached to the system and is useable by the system. At that point the system may go through a setup process described herein above. For example it will be appreciated that when a current voltage is sent across a sense resistor the result is compared to two other preset voltages that define the thresholds window of operation. If the value of the current voltage falls outside of the thresholds window then there is either no new operable component or there is a faulty operable component attached to the system.

At a plurality of possible new operable irrigation components may be identified as a group that may be output to a user so that the user may select the exact component from the list. At the selection may be received from a user and stored in memory.

At a protocol may be generated that includes instructions for the new operable component or components.

The irrigation controller may also comprise an expansion module. The expansion module may be used to expand or add to the functionality of the irrigation controller. The expansion module may be added to the system at any time whether upon initial setup of the irrigation controller or at a later time when a need arises for additional zones sensors or the like to be added to the system. It will be appreciated that the expansion module may be configured to be disposed in a stacked configuration.

Continuing to refer to the method may include retrieving a baseline configuration from computer memory at . At the method may further include sensing a deviation from the baseline configuration. It will be appreciated that the deviation may be generated by the added expansion module. At the method may comprise identifying at least a first added expansion module that is responsible for the deviation from the baseline. The deviation may be recorded into computer memory at . At the method may comprise retrieving component information regarding the first added expansion module from a component database. At the method may comprise prompting a user for setup input through a user interface. It will be appreciated that a user prompt may comprise the component information regarding the first added expansion module retrieved from the component database. At the method may comprise generating a new irrigation protocol having instructions for the added expansion module.

In an implementation the method may further comprise repeating the sensing of the deviation from the baseline configuration for a plurality of additional expansion modules. In an implementation the baseline configuration is a set of current draw values of a baseline configuration of previously attached operable components such that the sensing of the first additional expansion module comprises sensing deviation of the baseline configuration for current draw.

In an implementation the method may comprise retrieving a lookup table from memory and identifying a normal standard of operation of a plurality of additional attached operable components. The normal standard of operation may comprise current usage values.

In an implementation the method may further comprise suggesting a group of identified added expansion modules for selection by a user through the user interface. In an implementation the method of generating the irrigation protocol comprises communication with a supporting irrigation protocol server.

It will be appreciated that the expansion module of the disclosure may add additional irrigation zones and functionality of the controller. For example the expansion module may add support for wireless communication. As another example the expansion module may add sensor connectivity. It will likewise be understood that the added expansion module when attached to the system may self identify. The sensing process may comprise receiving self identifying information from the newly installed component or components such as one or more expansion modules or may be derived by sensing various electrical characteristics of the system such as current draw resistance inductance impedance etc. as electrical current flows through the system. The expansion module may comprise terminals configured to interface electrically with the irrigation system. The expansion module and control unit may be configured to be mounted on a substantially vertical surface via the irrigation adaptor. The expansion module may be removably attached to the irrigation adaptor via mechanical fasteners.

It will be appreciated that the user interface may be presented over a computer network as a web interface. In an implementation the user may be prompted via a mobile device or in an implementation the user may be prompted via a display within the control unit.

The methods of the disclosure may further comprise suggesting a group of identified operable irrigation components such as one or more expansion modules that are responsible for the deviation to a user and outputting the group for selection by the user for setup.

A system for the detection of an expansion module in an irrigation system during operation may comprise an irrigation system comprising plumbing and an irrigation controller. The irrigation system may comprise one or more operable irrigation components that are in electronic communication with the irrigation controller. An irrigation server may be connected to the irrigation controller over a computer network. The irrigation controller may receive an operating protocol from the irrigation server over the computer network. The irrigation controller may be configured for use as a component of the computer network.

As discussed herein above the irrigation controller may comprise a control unit and an irrigation adaptor. The adaptor is configured to actuate the operable irrigation components that operate according to instructions issued from the control unit. The system may further include a sensor that is in electronic communication with the irrigation controller and may also comprise a baseline configuration of the operable irrigation components. The baseline configuration may be stored in computer memory. It will be appreciated that the deviation within the irrigation system may be sensed by the sensor such that a deviation relative to the baseline configuration of the irrigation system results in the system sending a notification to a user regarding the sensed deviation establishing that an expansion module has been added to the system. It will be appreciated that a measurable increase above or a decrease below the baseline configuration may result in the system sending a notification to a user regarding the sensed deviation establishing either an addition to or deletion of an expansion module from the system whereas a slight or small fluctuation above or below the baseline configuration may not. It will be appreciated that the deviation from the baseline configuration may be sensed when the expansion module is attached to the system. It will be appreciated that the deviation may be generated by the expansion module.

In an implementation of the system the operable irrigation components may comprise an identifier such that the operable irrigation component responsible for the deviation from the baseline configuration is identifiable by the identifier. In an implementation of the system a signal may be sent to the controller from the sensor when there is a deviation from the baseline configuration such that the system may alert the user that there is an expansion module either added or removed from the system.

In an implementation of the system a new irrigation protocol may be generated by the irrigation server to include the newly attached expansion module which may include one or more zones or new operable components. The new irrigation protocol may be stored in memory of the controller. In an implementation the new protocol may be generated by the irrigation server or the controller. When the new protocol is generated by the server there may be electronic or network communication with the irrigation server and the controller in order to send the protocol from the irrigation server to the controller.

In an implementation of the system the baseline configuration may be a set of standard operating values of a baseline configuration of previously attached operable components. In an implementation of the system the system may further comprise a lookup table that is retrieved from memory. The lookup table may identify a normal standard of operation of attached operable components. In an implementation of the system the normal standard of operation comprises standard operating values from a plurality of iterations of operating the irrigation system. In an implementation of the system the normal standard of operation comprises standard operating values corresponding to a plurality of iterations of operation of individual operable components. In an implementation of the system a group of identified operable components responsible for the deviation may be suggested and output to a user for selection by the user.

It will be appreciated that a system of providing optimal irrigation in an irrigation system having a controller configured to be connected to an irrigation server over a computer network may comprise a computer network that itself may comprise an irrigation server and a protocol generator. The system may further comprise a controller. It will be appreciated that the controller may be in electronic communication with the plumbing of the irrigation system. The controller may also be in communication with the irrigation server over the computer network. Thus when a communication connection between the controller and the server is established information and data may be exchanged between the server and the controller. For example the server may formulate generate and otherwise develop an irrigation protocol and or a historical operational backup protocol and may send one or more of those protocols to the controller.

The controller in return may generate a transcript or other data relating to an iteration of the irrigation or watering event that may have just occurred. The transcript or other operational data may be sent from the controller to the irrigation server and the cloud or network service.

Additionally in an implementation data may be stored and written such as the irrigation protocol into computer memory of the controller and or server. The irrigation server may receive data reported back from the controller relating to an iteration of the irrigation protocol that has been executed. The protocol generator may use the reported back data to generate a historical backup protocol. The irrigation server may send the historical backup protocol to the controller wherein the historical backup protocol may be stored or written to the computer memory of the controller. The controller may retrieve the historical backup protocol from memory and may then execute the historical protocol if or when a connection between the irrigation server and the controller is not established.

In an implementation the controller records irrigation iteration data into computer memory after the irrigation protocol has been executed by the controller. In an implementation the controller records irrigation iteration data into computer memory until communication between the irrigation server and controller is reestablished. In an implementation the controller may record irrigation iteration data for a plurality of iterations into computer memory after a plurality of irrigation protocols have been executed by the controller. In an implementation the controller may record irrigation iteration data into computer memory until communication between the irrigation server and controller is reestablished.

In an implementation the irrigation server may initiate and receive one or more notifications that may be output from the controller regarding the connection that was not established. In an implementation the notification may be a visual output from the controller that operates as a visual cue to a user. In an implementation the notification may be an audible signal output from the controller that operates as an audio cue to a user.

The system and method may generate a first start time that may act as a calendar item to send a follow up query or notification to the user for example a week later to determine whether the user is pleased or otherwise satisfied with the health of the landscape and if so the system may reduce the amount of water a second time. The system and method may generate a calendar item to send a follow up query or notification to the user for example a week later to determine whether the user is pleased or otherwise satisfied with the health of the landscape. If the user is satisfied then the system may maintain the current duration for that zone.

The weather information may include current weather information and may be for a specific location that corresponds with the location of the controller of the plumbing system. The weather information may include data relating to current humidity current temperature current solar radiation and or current wind speed. The weather information may also provide additional data without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

In an implementation the irrigation server may aggregate weather data from a single source or from a plurality of sources. In an implementation the system and method may comprise a user web account wherein the user web account is paired with the controller. In an implementation the system may further comprise a notice generator that generates notifications for a user regarding events within the system wherein the irrigation server transmits the notifications to the user prompting the user to enter data relating to the irrigation system and or one or more irrigation zones of the irrigation system. In an implementation the irrigation server may electronically communicate with the user through the web account located on a database and displayed using a general purpose computer through a mobile device and or through the controller to send the notifications to the user.

It will be appreciated that the cloud or network service may perform many of the calculations and generate the irrigation protocols and other instructions that may be sent directly to the controller. Thus it is the cloud or network service that provides the processing via one or more servers of the data obtained from one or more various aggregated weather sources or databases. In an implementation the irrigation server may perform various computer implemented steps to utilize the current weather data that is provided at a regular predetermined interval such as at one hour intervals and generate the irrigation protocols that may be sent to the controller for actuation of the irrigation or plumbing system.

The irrigation server may electronically communicate with the controller. The irrigation server may also send one or more irrigation protocols to the controller over the computer network where the irrigation protocol is written into computer memory of the controller for execution by the controller. In an implementation the system and method may utilize a clock that may be configured for providing time stamp data to events within the system. The one or more irrigation protocols may comprise time stamp data. Once the controller has received the one or more irrigation protocols the controller executes the irrigation protocols to thereby actuate the irrigation or plumbing system.

In an implementation the system and method the irrigation server may determine a slope of the ground current temperature and or the geographical region type if there is no solar radiation data provided to the protocol generator. In an implementation the irrigation server determines the slope of the ground temperature and or the geographical region type prior to the protocol generator determining the amount of water needed to replenish the root zone for the given irrigation zone.

In an implementation the system and method may further comprise initiating a notification to a user s communication device regarding the connection that was not established. In an implementation the user communication device may be a computing device connected over a network. In an implementation the network may comprise cellular network functionality. In an implementation the user communication device may be a mobile device or other communication device capable of receiving notifications from a network. In an implementation the system and method may further comprise initiating and receiving a notification output from the controller regarding the connection that was not established. It will be appreciated that in an implementation the notification may be a visual output from the controller. In an implementation the notification may be an audible signal output from the controller. In an implementation the system and method may further comprise rechecking for network connectivity between the irrigation server and the controller.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the described features or acts described above. Rather the described features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The foregoing description has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Further it should be noted that any or all of the aforementioned alternate implementations may be used in any combination desired to form additional hybrid implementations of the disclosure.

Further although specific implementations of the disclosure have been described and illustrated the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The scope of the disclosure is to be defined by the claims appended hereto any future claims submitted here and in different applications and their equivalents.

