---

title: Systems and methods for determining the presence of a person
abstract: A method, device, or system is arranged to determine the presence of a person. The system includes a data store that stores a plurality of locations and stores a subset of the plurality of locations. The system includes a server in communication with the data store that is arranged to i) associate the subset of locations of the plurality of locations with the person and ii) associate a mobile device with the person. The system also includes a mobile device arranged to i) monitor the geographic position of the mobile device, ii) store the subset of the plurality of locations, iii) determine that the geographic position of the mobile device is within a vicinity of a first location of the subset of locations; and iv) provide a first indication that the mobile device is within the vicinity of the first location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549283&OS=09549283&RS=09549283
owner: ANAESTHESIA ASSOCIATES OF MASSACHUSSETTS, P.C.
number: 09549283
owner_city: Westwood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140918
---
This disclosure relates to location monitoring and positioning systems and particularly to determining the presence of a person.

Entities such as corporations associations and government organizations have traditionally monitored an individual s presence at the entity s facilities to ensure that the individual has been present to perform assigned tasks or duties. Companies have typically monitored when an employee arrives and departs from their workplace. For example companies have required employees to use timecards that are time stamped to validate when an employee arrives or departs from work.

There is an administrative burden associated with tracking when employees or individuals enter or leave a workplace. Typically a supervisor or other administrator must collect timecards to confirm that employees were present and calculate the amount of time that the employee was present. Alternatively employees can prepare and submit timecards manually or electronically. However such a process is burdensome and time consuming to employees. Accordingly there is a need to enhance the ability of an entity to monitor the presence of employees or individuals associated with the entity in a less obtrusive and more cost efficient manner.

In certain circumstances employees or individuals may be required to perform their duties or be present at multiple facilities that are geographically separated from each other but at different time periods. Hence it becomes substantially more difficult to track the presence of an employee among multiple facilities at different times. Accordingly there is a need to enable efficient monitoring or tracking of the presence of employees or individuals associated with the entity when the individuals perform their duties or move among multiple different facilities.

An entity such as a company must manage and coordinate the work schedules of multiple employees. In certain circumstances the entity must coordinate work schedules of individuals that work and move among multiple facilities. To coordinate work schedules administrators typically gather individual work schedules gather information regarding the future availability of individuals determine the production or service needs of the entity and then determine the schedules of each of the multiple individuals to meet the needs of the entity. Again such a process can be time consuming and burdensome on supervisors and administrators. Accordingly there is a need to enable more efficient scheduling of work among multiple individuals moving among multiple facilities.

The application in various embodiments addresses the deficiencies of current personnel tracking and scheduling systems by providing systems and methods that enable less obtrusive and more cost efficient monitoring of the presence of persons even at multiple locations.

In one aspect a system for determining the presence of a person includes a data store that stores a plurality of locations and stores a subset of the plurality of locations. The system also includes a server in communication with the data store that is arranged to i associate the subset of locations of the plurality of locations with the person and ii associate a mobile device with the person. The mobile device is arranged to i monitor the geographic position of the mobile device ii store the subset of the plurality of locations iii determine that the geographic position of the mobile device is within a vicinity of a first location of the subset of locations and iv provide a first indication that the mobile device is within the vicinity of the first location.

In one implementation the mobile device also determines that the geographic position of the mobile device is not within the vicinity of the first location and provides a second indication that the mobile device has departed from the vicinity of the first location.

The server may store history data in the data store associated with a presence of the mobile device at the subset of locations. The server may analyze the history data to determine presence information associated with the person. The server may use the presence information associated with the person to determine a future presence schedule for the person. In one configuration the system includes a client having a user interface arranged to receive a user input to configure the subset of locations.

In one implementation determining that a mobile device is or is not within the vicinity of the location is based on at least one of a distance between the mobile device and the first location a distance between the mobile device and an access point and whether the mobile device is connected to or communicating with one or more access points. The first indication may include an arrival or presence notification. The second indication may include a departure notification.

The mobile device may include at least a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant a mobile computer a smart phone a radio frequency identifier or a wireless communications device. A person may be an employee of a company a member of a private or governmental organization or a member of an association. The plurality of locations may include a worksite an office a facility the person s home a residence a vehicle or a location where the person s presence is scheduled.

In another aspect a mobile device includes a memory that stores a subset of locations of a plurality of locations. The mobile device also includes a processor arranged to i monitor the geographic position of the mobile device ii receive the subset of the plurality of locations from a server iii determine that the geographic position of the mobile device is within a vicinity of a first location of the subset of locations and iv provide to the server a first indication that the mobile device is within the vicinity of the first location.

While the applicant s teachings are described in conjunction with various embodiments it is not intended that the applicant s teachings be limited to such embodiments. On the contrary the applicant s teachings encompass various alternatives modifications and equivalents as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art.

As used herein the term wireless means data is transferred to and or from a device over a wireless medium. The APs or may use various types of wireless protocols and standards such as time division multiple access TDMA code division multiple access CDMA 802.11 Wifi Bluetooth cellular GPRS LTE EVDO WiMax and the like. An AP or can communicate with multiple mobile devices concurrently. AP may also function as a cellular telephone network base station. The data provider may include a public land mobile network PLMN or other wireless data provider.

The mobile devices and may include a personal digital assistant pda portable computer cellular telephone smart phone radio frequency identifier RFID wireless communications device and the like. The mobile devices and may utilize one or more communications protocols such as 802.11 WiMax Wifi GPRS CDMA LTE pager protocols Bluetooth a PAN protocol a wireless LAN protocol a wide area network WAN protocol or any suitable wireless protocol to enable communications with elements of the system .

The mobile devices and may include presence tracking applications and respectively that may utilize a global positioning system GPS to determine a geographic positioning of the mobile device by interfacing with a GPS satellite . The server or the mobile tracking applications and may interface with a mobile location protocol MLP service a GPS based positioning system a Wi Fi based positioning system WPS or WiPS WFPS or other location based service that enables the server or the mobile tracking applications and to continuously or periodically determine the location of a mobile device respectively. The server or the mobile tracking applications and may utilize commercially available positioning services such as Google location services Apple location services Infsoft Navizon AlterGeo Skyhook Wireless or Combian Mobile. The presence tracking applications and respectively also enable each mobile device and to interface with a presence monitoring server and a presence monitoring database .

The system includes at least clients and which may be personal computers or other computing devices that enable a person or some other user to access the presence monitoring server via a user interface such as for example a web browser. In some implementations mobile devices and can be configured to provide a user interface from a user to the server . In some configurations the system also includes kiosks and that are located at locations and respectively. Each kiosk and may be a personal computer or other computing device capable of providing a user interface to the server . The user interface of each kiosk and may include a web browser to enable a user to exchange information with the server . Each location and can have one or more kiosks in various locations to enable more convenient access by persons. Further details regarding the kiosks is provided later herein.

The mass storage may include one or more magnetic disk or tape drives or optical disk drives or solid state memories or memory sticks for storing data and instructions for use by the CPU . At least one component of the mass storage system preferably in the form of a disk drive or tape drive stores the database used for processing data and or presence data of the system . The mass storage system may also include one or more drives for various portable media such as a floppy disk a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or an integrated circuit non volatile memory adapter i.e. PC MCIA adapter to input and output data and code to and from the computer system . The storage system may store presence related data for multiple persons over a period of time to enable the system or server to analyze the presence data generate metadata or trend data and charts and or to present selected portions of presence data to users or distribute selected portions of data to network elements such as mobile devices and clients and or other devices.

The computer system may also include one or more input output interfaces for communications shown by way of example as interface for data communications via the network or network . The data interface may be a modem an Ethernet card or any other suitable data communications device. To provide the functions of a network according to the data interface may provide a relatively high speed link to a network or network of such as an intranet internet or the Internet either directly or through another external interface. The communication link to the network may be for example optical wired or wireless e.g. via satellite Wifi or cellular network . Alternatively the computer system may include a mainframe or other type of host computer system capable of Web based communications via the network . The computer system may include software for operating a network application such as a web server and or web client.

The computer system also includes suitable input output ports or use the interconnect bus for interconnection with a local display and keyboard or the like serving as a local user interface for programming and or data retrieval purposes. The display may include a touch screen capability to enable users to interface with the system by touching portions of the surface of the display . The display may enable a graphical display on one or more parameters associated with one or more persons and or locations and . Server operations personnel may interact with the system for controlling and or programming the system from remote terminal devices via the network .

The computer system may run a variety of application programs and store associated data in a database of mass storage system . One or more such applications may enable the receipt and delivery of messages to enable operation as a server for implementing server functions relating to presence monitoring of persons associated with an entity according to system of .

The components contained in the computer system are those typically found in general purpose computer systems used as servers workstations personal computers network terminals and the like. In fact these components are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art.

As discussed above the general purpose computer system may include one or more applications that provide presence monitoring and analysis in accordance with features of the invention. The system may include software and or hardware that implements a web server application. The web server application may include software such as HTML XML WML SGML PHP Hypertext Preprocessor CGI and like languages.

The foregoing features may be realized as a software component operating in the system where the system is Unix workstation or other type of workstation. Other operation systems may be employed such as without limitation Windows MAC OS LINUX and Android. In some embodiments the monitor central station or device software can optionally be implemented as a C language computer program or a computer program written in any high level language including without limitation Python C Fortran Java or Visual BASIC. Certain script based programs may be employed such as XML WML PHP and so on. Additionally general techniques for high level programming are known and set forth in for example Stephen G. Kochan Programming in C Hayden Publishing 1983 . Certain aspects of Python programming are discussed in 5Edition Mark Lutz 2013 . The system may use a DSP for which programming principles well known in the art.

As stated previously the mass storage may include a database. The database may be any suitable database system including the commercially available Microsoft Access database and can be a local or distributed database system. The design and development of suitable database systems are described in McGovern et al. A Guide To Sybase and SQL Server Addison Wesley 1993 . The database can be supported by any suitable persistent data memory such as a hard disk drive RAID system tape drive system floppy diskette or any other suitable system. The system may include a database that is integrated with the system however it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that in other implementations the database and mass storage can be an external element.

In certain embodiments the system may include an Internet browser program and or be configured operate as a web server. In some embodiments the client and or web server may be configured to recognize and interpret various network protocols that may be used by a client or server program. Commonly used protocols include Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP File Transfer Protocol FTP Telnet and Secure Sockets Layer SSL for example. However new protocols and revisions of existing protocols may be frequently introduced. Thus in order to support a new or revised protocol a new revision of the server and or client application may be continuously developed and released.

In one implementation the system includes a networked based e.g. Internet based application that may be configured and run on a server and or any combination of the other components of the system . The system including server may include a web server running a Web 2.0 application or the like. The clients mobile devices and and kiosks and may include web clients. Web applications running on the system may use server side dynamic content generation mechanisms such without limitation Java servlets CGI PHP or ASP. In certain embodiments mashed content may be generated by a web browser via for example client side scripting including without limitation JavaScript and or applets.

In certain embodiments the system may include applications that employ asynchronous JavaScript XML Ajax and like technologies that use asynchronous loading and content presentation techniques. These techniques may include without limitation XHTML and CSS for style presentation document object model DOM API exposed by a web browser asynchronous data exchange of XML data and web browser side scripting e.g. JavaScript. Certain web based applications and services may utilize web protocols including without limitation the services orientated access protocol SOAP and representational state transfer REST . REST may utilize HTTP with XML.

The mobile devices and clients and and server may also provide enhanced security and data encryption. Enhanced security may include access control biometric authentication cryptographic authentication message integrity checking encryption digital rights management services and or other like security services. The security may include protocols such as IPSEC and IKE. The encryption may include without limitation DES AES RSA and any like public key or private key based schemes.

Returning to in operation an entity e.g. a company organization or association utilizes system to monitor the presence of members or persons associated with the entity. One type of entity is a company that employs multiple employees or persons and who may work at multiple locations and . Each location may be a worksite an office a facility a person s home a residence a vehicle or a location where the person s presence is scheduled or expected. The facility may be a hospital a manufacturing plant a school and the like. A facility may include multiple buildings or worksites.

Each person can be associated with one or more mobile devices. For example a person e.g. person may be associated with mobile device by associating an identifier of the mobile device with an identifier of the person . The identifier of the mobile device may be a serial number associated with the mobile device such as for example an electronic serial number ESN an international mobile equipment identifier IMEI an international mobile station identifier IMSI a telephone number a MAC address an assigned identifier and the like.

Each person e.g. person may be associated with multiple identifiers depending on the one or more devices associated with or used by the person . An identifier may be derived or generated automatically by hashing or processing certain unique identifiers such as for example an IMEI and or MAC address. As a person moves from location to location or other locations the system can determine which of the identifiers it should use to determine the presence of the person . The system may determine which one or more identifiers to use based on recent activity of the person . For example the person may have a tracking application on their mobile device e.g. an iPhone and another tracking application on another mobile device e.g. an iPad. The mobile device will generate arrival indication messages and departure indication messages based on its movement into and out of the vicinity of location e.g. a hospital. The mobile device may generate online indication messages when it is located away from any location and but is for example at the home of person . The system can therefore dynamically infer that mobile device should not be used to monitor the presence of person .

Instead the system will use mobile device to monitor the presence of person . The system can dynamically infer that the data associated with the identifier of mobile device is the data that the system should use to monitor the presence of the person instead of the data from the mobile device . If at another time the system determines that the mobile device is online but not moving among one or more locations while the mobile device is moving among one or more locations then the system will dynamically infer that the data associated with the identifier of mobile device is the data that the system should use to monitor the presence of the person . In some implementations a parser application of a server or of dynamically determines which mobile device and data to use by the system to monitor the presence of a person.

The system may use a name employee number social security number driver license number passport number or other identifier as an identifier of the person . The person the presence monitoring server or the tracking application may assign an identifier to the mobile device and or an identifier associated with the person . In certain implementations the database or another datastore includes a data table or list of identifiers of persons along with their corresponding mobile device identifiers. Hence the table or list associates a person with one or more mobile devices.

For an entity that has multiple facilities in different geographic locations the database may store a list of the multiple locations and of the entity. A first subset of locations of the multiple locations and may be associated with a person . If the person only works at locations and then the first subset of locations consists of locations and . In one implementation the system enables the person to configure the first subset to include locations and while excluding location . The system can also enable other persons to configure other subsets. For example the person may configure a second subset of locations to consist of locations and . By enabling a person to configure a subset of locations where the system determines if the person is present the system advantageously enhances the privacy of the person by not tracking the person s location via their associated mobile device except only in a subset of locations designated by the person.

In certain configurations a tracking application such as application of mobile device accesses a memory on the mobile device and or the database to determine the subset of locations associated with person . The tracking application interfaces with a location based service e.g. a Wifi location service a GPS receiver of the mobile device or some other location determining mechanism to determine whether the mobile device is within a vicinity of a location such as location . The tracking application may only send an indication that the mobile device is at the location to the presence monitoring server when the mobile device is within the vicinity of location and only if location is a location included in the subset of locations that have been designated for the person . The tracking application may send an arrived notification when the tracking application first determines that the mobile device is within the vicinity of location . The tracking application may periodically send a present notification to the server while the mobile device is within a vicinity of a location of the subset of locations. The tracking application may send a departed notification to the server when the mobile device has departed from the vicinity of a location of the subset of locations designated for a person.

In some implementations the subset of locations associated with a person is configured by a supervisor or administrator of the person via for example a user interface at client or another device capable of interfacing with the server . By enabling a supervisor or administrator to configure a subset of locations where the system determines if the person is present the system advantageously enhances the privacy of the person by not tracking the person s location except only in a subset of locations designated by the supervisor or administrator.

In an alternate implementation the system tracks the location of a person via their associated mobile device in all locations associated with an entity. For example the server may include an application that interfaces with a mobile location protocol MLP service a GPS based positioning system a Wi Fi based positioning system WPS or WiPS WFPS or other location based service e.g. that enables the server to continuously or periodically determine the location of a mobile device or . The server may utilize commercially available positioning services such as Google location services Apple location services Infsoft Navizon AlterGeo Skyhook Wireless or Combian Mobile and similar commercially available services. In this implementation the system however enables a person supervisor or administrator to designate a subset of locations associated with a person. Based on the designated subset of locations the presence monitoring server only processes data or provides information associated with the subset of locations that was designated. While the server may gather location information related to any location enhanced privacy is still provided because only information related to the subset of locations is processed or made available to administrators supervisors or others. Hence in this alternate configuration the use or disclosure of a person s location information is determined by the server as opposed to being determined by the presence tracking application e.g. application of a mobile device such as mobile device .

An employee such as person is expected to keep their associated mobile device in their possession. When the person moves into the vicinity of a location such as location the mobile device using presence tracking application determines that it is in the vicinity of location and in response determines whether the location is one of a subset of locations. If location is one of the locations in the subset of locations associated with the employee the mobile device sends an indication that it has arrived at location via AP and network to the presence monitoring server . The indication may be a data message including various information that the server stores in database associated with the employee.

Column includes status information regarding the status of the mobile device that sent the message. The term arrived indicates that the mobile device has arrived at a location. The term present indicates that the mobile device is present at a location. The term departed indicates that the mobile device has departed from a location. The term online indicates that the mobile device is operating but no location information is reported from the mobile device or stored by the database because the actual location of the mobile device is not within the vicinity of a designated subset of locations.

Column lists the name of the location e.g. BMC Menino associated with a message received in each row of the data log file . Column lists the operating system and software version associated with the mobile device. Column lists the identifier of the mobile device. The data log file can be continuously and incrementally updated as the database receives indication messages from a mobile device. Hence the data log file provides a history of the presence of a mobile device and the presence of the person in possession of the mobile device.

In another implementation a person may not want to use a mobile device to automatically provide presence information to the presence monitoring server . Instead the person such as person can manually notify the server that they have arrived at a location such as location by using a kiosk which is at the location to submit when the person arrives or departs from location .

In one configuration a parser application receives presence information from the data collector application or database . The parser application processes arranges organizes and or formats the presence information associated with one or more persons into a human readable parsing or format. In some implementations the parser application of a server or of dynamically determines which mobile device and data to use to track and or determine the presence of a person.

As illustrated in the presence monitoring system can access automatically generated employee presence information scheduling information and other information associated with multiple employees moving among multiple locations. Using such information the system can analyze workflows generate schedules and or adapt schedules and resources more efficiently to address the need of an entity or business. While presence information for a week is shown other periods of time may be displayed. Also information associated only with one or particular subset of employees may be displayed. The display of information may be based on other parameters such as location.

The data analyzer application may process the presence data from one or more persons along with other information to develop future presence or work schedules for employees. The other information may include projected or expected presence or work needs at one or more locations or the expected availability of employees on certain days or times. For example the data analyzer may receive proposed vacation schedules from multiple employees. The data analyzer may then compare the projected schedules of employees the presence or work needs at one or more locations the history of the amount the presence of one or more employees to determine a future work or presence schedule for one or more employees.

Either the mobile device or server determines the geographic position of the mobile device to be within a vicinity of a first location e.g. location of the subset of locations e.g. locations and . If the mobile device is using GPS based positioning the tracking application may use a threshold distance from a defined position associated with the location . If the mobile device is within the threshold distance of the defined position then the mobile device is determined to be within the vicinity of the location . If the mobile device is outside the threshold distance from the defined position then the mobile device is determined to not be within the vicinity of the location . If Wifi based positioning is being used then the position may be based on whether the mobile device is communicating with or receiving data from a particular Wifi access point known to be at or within a vicinity of the location . Step . Then the mobile device provides a first indication from the mobile device that the mobile device is within the vicinity of the first location . Step .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the methods systems and devices used to determine the presence of a person can also be applied to non persons such as without limitation animals robots vehicles and other mobile entities.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that certain aspects involved in the operation of the device tracking application and or server may be embodied in a computer program product that includes a computer usable and or readable medium. For example such a computer usable medium may consist of a read only memory device such as a CD ROM disk or conventional ROM devices or a random access memory such as a hard drive device or a computer diskette or flash memory device having a computer readable program code stored thereon.

Those skilled in the art will know or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the embodiments and practices described herein. Accordingly it will be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the embodiments disclosed herein but is to be understood from the following claims which are to be interpreted as broadly as allowed under the law.

