---

title: Redirection service
abstract: A computing system can include an interface that receives a URL where the URL includes activation information associated with activation of an Internet link by a user and item information associated with an item where the item information is associated with an ID for the item; circuitry that determines if the ID identifies the item at an Internet store; circuitry that determines via decay logic a best match for the item at the Internet store if the ID does not identify the item at the Internet store; and circuitry that formulates a redirection URL for redirection of the user to a webpage of the Internet store for the best match for the item if the ID does not identify the item at the Internet store.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276994&OS=09276994&RS=09276994
owner: 
number: 09276994
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140914
---
This application is a continuation of a co pending U.S. patent application having Ser. No. 13 340 480 filed 29 Dec. 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein and which claims the benefit of a U.S. Provisional Application having Ser. No. 61 428 491 filed Dec. 30 2010 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to technologies and techniques for redirecting services.

Redirection services are provided by for example the HTTP protocol which finds use with the Internet and the World Wide Web e.g. interlinked hypertext documents accessible via the Internet . The Internet is a global system of interconnected networks that link computers computing equipment storage etc. The Internet is often referred to as a network of networks .

For the Internet resources e.g. information programs etc. are located using uniform resource locators or universal resource locator URLs a type of uniform resource identifier URI . A URL includes for example a scheme name e.g. HTTP followed by a colon two slashes then depending on scheme a domain name e.g. alternatively an IP address a port number a path of a resource to be fetched or a program to be run then for example for programs such as Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts a query string key value string etc. and an optional fragment identifier.

Communication over the Internet can occur via a standard Internet protocol suite such as the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP suite. The TCP IP Internet protocol suite classifies its methods and protocols into four hierarchical abstraction layers the link layer the Internet layer the transport layer and the application layer. Each layer has functionality that solves a set of problems within its particular scope.

HTTP is an application layer protocol within the TCP IP suite. The protocol definitions presume a reliable transport layer protocol for host to host data transfer e.g. TCP . HTTP has found application with other protocols such as the User Datagram Protocol UDP for example in methods such as the Simple Service Discovery Protocol SSDP .

As to redirecting using HTTP as an example a redirect is a response with a status code beginning with 3 that induces a browser to go to another location with annotation describing the reason which allows for the correct subsequent action such as changing links in the case of code 301 a permanent change of address . HTTP defines several status codes for redirection including 300 multiple choices e.g. to offer different languages 301 moved permanently 302 found e.g. optionally to specify redirection for a particular reason which may be unspecified 303 see other e.g. for results of cgi scripts and 307 temporary redirect.

The foregoing status codes operate according to a redirect target in a location header of a HTTP response. Below is an example of an HTTP response that uses the status code 301 moved permanently redirect 

A redirection service may be part of an information management system that provides an Internet link that redirects users to desired content. A redirect link may be used as a permanent address for example as to content that frequently changes hosts. As an example the redirection service bit.ly shortens URLs through use of the bit.ly domain or other custom domains to generate shortened links. Redirection is achieved using an HTTP Redirect e.g. URL forwarding from the short URL to the full URL .

Another feature specified in the HTTP is known as a referrer . For example when a webpage link is clicked by a user a browser application issues a HTTP request that includes a referrer field that indicates the source of the link e.g. the last page the user was on the one where he she clicked the link . More generally a referrer is the URL of a previous item which led to the HTTP request being issued. The referrer for an image for example is generally the HTML page on which it is to be displayed. The referrer field is an optional part of the HTTP request sent by a browser application to a web server.

On the Internet various server variables are available which may be part of a request e.g. Request.ServerVariables . A request may include one or more parameters that specify information e.g. server variable . As an example a variable REMOTE ADDR may be specified as a parameter for the IP address of a remote host making a request noting that an IP address can assist in geolocation. As an example consider a browser application running on a computer with a connection to the Internet and thus an IP address. A user using the browser can enter a domain name for a webpage such that the browser instructs the computer to send a request to retrieve the webpage. To allow a server hosting the webpage to respond to the request the request typically includes the IP address of the sending computer i.e. where the information should be sent .

Depending on configuration a server may also respond by sending a cookie e.g. which may be stored by the browser application . A cookie includes some information which a browser application may instruct a computer to send upon a subsequent request.

While some examples mention browser or browser application any application that allows for access to the Internet e.g. using the HTTP may be configured to make a request. As an example of a type of application consider the various iTunes apps that may be implemented on an iPhone device such that the iPhone device can send a request. An iTunes or other app may also include an ad e.g. a banner etc. where activating the ad e.g. clicking tapping etc. on a link graphic causes the device running the app to send a request e.g. an HTTP request .

With respect to connections to the Internet a device may include circuitry to connect via wire wirelessly or both via wire and wirelessly. As to wireless connection a cellular or other network may be intermediate to the Internet e.g. 3G 4G BLUETOOTH etc. .

On the World Wide Web various entities exist in the realm of e commerce. In a system known as affiliate marketing a publisher can be any type of Web site app etc. for example from a well known destination that offers consumers a range of shopping opportunities to a blogger that s just beginning to attract an audience to an app developer. Regardless of the type as a loyal following is built opportunities exist via affiliate marketing to monetize the site the app etc. by earning commissions. In such a scheme the publisher can become an affiliate of an affiliate program where the publisher can displays ads text links or product links e.g. from an advertiser or other entity in return for a commission when a sale is made or when a lead is acquired. A sale may be tied to a specific action such as filling out a form or downloading a trial.

One affiliate network is LinkShare which manages various different affiliate programs. LinkShare facilitates relationships between publishers and advertisers by providing the underlying technology that manages links tracks results and commissions and sends payments.

An affiliate programs may operate as follows a site owner e.g. affiliate offers goods or services of a merchant for sale on its site by including an affiliate link to direct a user to that merchant for a good goods a service services etc. When a user e.g. a visitor click on the affiliate link an identification code is associated with the click e.g. via a cookie and in the event that the user takes an appropriate action e.g. a visit a conversion to a lead a conversion to a sale then the affiliate i.e. the site owner is paid by the merchant. The merchant or affiliate network will also usually provide tools for the affiliate to monitor various metrics such as the number of visitors sent to a merchant site the number of clicks or sales generated and the earnings accumulated. Affiliate relationships may be established either with each merchant directly e.g. Amazon.com or through an established third party affiliate network e.g. LinkShare TradeDoubler Commission Junction etc. .

As described herein in various examples a redirection service can for example enhance user experience on the World Wide Web optionally with referrer information or affiliate information that may benefit parties involved in transactions for goods services etc.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

As to the region it includes a user using a browser application to access the Internet an Internet store front e.g. for transactions involving goods or services and a financial institution e.g. a bank a credit union etc. . The region includes a website an Internet store front that has a relationship with the Internet store front and a financial institution .

As shown in the user initiates a communication A with respect to the website . The communication A activates a link of the website that causes issuance of a request B for a resource associated with the Internet store front . For example the website may be that of a recording artist where the website provides one or more links for purchase of digital media from the Internet store front .

As shown in where the user initiates a financial transaction with the Internet store front for purchase of a good a service etc. the transaction is forbidden because it violates one or more rules. For example where the user has an account with the financial institution in region the Internet store front may not honor a transaction with that account C because it is in a foreign currency.

As mentioned a reason or reasons for denial of a transaction may be based on a factor or factors other than currency. For example where the Internet store front provides goods services etc. based on a regional license that pertains to the region only it may be illegal for the Internet store front to sell provide transmit etc. the goods services etc. to one or more other regions. As another example where taxes are to be applied by law a system may not be in place to collect taxes or deliver tax payments. As yet another example where the goods services etc. are restricted by law e.g. technology moral issues etc. the transaction may be denied.

In the example scenario the redirection service analyzes information determines a geolocation of the communication A directed to the website and then redirects the request B e.g. activated by the communication A to the Internet store front which is believed proper for users that reside in region see e.g. for an example of a redirect using a protocol such as the HTTP . As shown in the Internet store front can perform a financial transaction with the financial institution for example to complete a purchase by the user for goods services etc. available from the Internet store front in region as advertised on the website in region .

In various examples described herein a user such as the user may operate a device that can access the Internet where the device includes an application e.g. a web browser or other application configured to present a user interface that allows the user to activate an Internet link e.g. via touch voice shake etc. . Where the device is a cell phone e.g. or other device with cell network circuitry such a link may occur indirectly e.g. first via a cell network and then the Internet .

In the example of the redirector includes various modules which may be software hardware etc. provided locally remotely locally and remotely. A geolocator module provides for geolocation of for example users . A rules module provides for one or more rules for a region or regions e.g. for IPRs DRM currencies taxes legalities etc. . A commerce module provides for any of a variety of actions with respect to commerce e.g. e commerce which may include a per click a per month etc. type of service agreement. An affiliates module provides for information as to one or more affiliates of for example one or more Internet store fronts. A search module provides for search services with respect to information received via one or more sites as being related to a user communication and goods services etc. offered by one or more Internet store fronts.

In the example of the redirector is shown as being configured to service requests from the sites e.g. as initiated by an application running on a device with a network interface and to redirect these requests to one or more Internet store fronts which may match or mismatch e.g. where country of origin matches or does not match .

To search for content in an iTunes Store a so called fully qualified URL content request can be made to an iTunes Store. In response the iTunes Store may return a JavaScript Object Notation JSON format response. According to the iTunes Store API a fully qualified URL has the following format 

To construct a parameter key and value pair concatenation is performed for each parameter key e.g. data field with an equal sign and a value string. For example key1 value1. To create a string of parameter key and value pairs via concatenation an ampersand is used e.g. key1 value1 key2 value2 . The resulting string may be referred to as a data structure.

For the iTunes Store parameter keys include as examples term e.g. URL encoded text string to search for in an iTunes Store such as jack johnson country e.g. a two letter country code for an iTunes Store to search where the default is the store front for the specified country media e.g. media type to search for in an iTunes Store such as movie where default is all entity e.g. type of results to return relative to the specified media type such as movieArtist for a movie media type search where the default is a track entity associated with the specified media type attribute e.g. attribute to search for in an iTunes Store relative to the specified media type such as entity allArtist attribute allArtistTerm limit e.g. number of search results to return lang e.g. language to use when returning search results such as en us and explicit e.g. a flag indicating whether or not to include explicit content in search results .

The iTunes Store API also provides for receipt of lookup requests to search for content based on identifiers including iTunes IDs and All Music Guide AMG IDs. ID based lookups tend to be performed more quickly and to result in fewer false positive results. As an example a fully qualified URL for a specific iTunes Store lookup request by iTunes artist ID is as follows 

In the example of the data handling schemes include a scheme where metadata e.g. an iTunes Store URL or other store directed URL is received by the redirector and passed to a store front e.g. as a redirect a scheme where the metadata is received by the redirector and compared to an information cache where metadata is returned to the redirector and passed to a store front e.g. as a redirect a scheme where the metadata is received by the redirector without an adequate response from an information cache and thus submitted via an API which returns metadata that is then passed to a store front e.g. as a redirect and a scheme where the metadata is received by the redirector and submitted via an API which returns metadata that is then passed to a store front e.g. as a redirect .

As an example a process may include making multiple calls e.g. to a cache an API etc. . Consider a first call that is a lookup to get metadata from a link followed by a second call that is a search that uses the retrieved metadata in an appropriate country.

According to the data handling schemes the redirector can operate to ensure that a redirect directs a user to appropriate content at a store front. As mentioned in various examples a redirect may occur according to a protocol such as the HTTP see e.g. the HTTP 3XX example of . Thus in the data handling examples and of or other examples additional lines arrows may exist as well as additional entities e.g. an application that activates a link one or more entities as occurring or used for Internet communications etc. . In various examples a line or lines may represent a logical flow e.g. without specifics as to a particular protocol .

As described with respect to situations may arise where metadata which may include one or more IDs from a site do not exactly match that for a store front in another region where a user may be redirected. In other words the metadata may be specific to an Internet store front in a region in which the site resides e.g. where the IP address of the site indicates that the store resides and not be particularly fit for locating a resource at one or more other Internet store fronts e.g. associated with the store front in other regions.

For the scenario where the user cannot perform transactions with the Internet store front e.g. according to one or more rules the redirector may redirect the request including its metadata A e.g. ID s parameter s etc. to the Internet store front . As to identifying content e.g. item A at the Internet store front various situations may arise as explained with respect to a decay process which may be hierarchical in its logical structure e.g. optionally provided as a state machine . As an example metadata may be translated based on best match logic to be relevant to another store.

The decay process may proceed via one or more relational operations such as an exact match a perfect match a best match an album artist a search a media format a store front a user defined etc. The decay process may proceed via decisions that form a decision tree e.g. or a state diagram which may be tailored based on metadata provided by a link. For example where metadata includes an item ID for an Internet store front in one region and if an exact match does not exist for that item ID in an Internet store front in another region the decay process may proceed via a store front operation that redirects a user to an Internet store front in the appropriate region.

While particular hierarchy of decay logic is described in the example of decay logic may be configured to account for various factors e.g. based on learning redirection service options etc. . Further while the example is described with respect to certain goods e.g. digital music a hierarchy and decay process may be tailored with respect to the goods services etc. e.g. for applications appliances tools etc. . Thus categories such as album or artist may be for example application suite or developer .

The decay process may include caching information and optionally learning via a learning algorithm. For example the data handling schemes and may include caching in the cache as well as learning to manage cached information to expedite redirects and to enhance user experience e.g. to redirect a user to content that is exact or deemed acceptably relevant to desired content . Such an approach may include determining whether a user navigates away from a store front or otherwise interacts with the store front in a manner that indicates that a redirect may not have been optimal e.g. optionally including analysis of times comparisons with other shoppers etc. . For example where a user wants to purchase a song e.g. mp3 or other format file if the redirect delivers the user to the song but recorded by a different artist the user is likely to interact with the store front until she finds the correct song if available.

In the example of the exact match may correspond to situations where an ID is exactly the same across associated store fronts in different regions the perfect match may correspond to situations where all metadata lines up perfectly across associated store fronts and the best match may correspond to situations where metadata overlaps to at least a certain extent e.g. processing to remove brackets parenthesis etc. for live versions deluxe versions of an album media type is the same etc. .

In the example of the album artist operation may correspond to situations where a match cannot be made at the highest level and thus a match is made at the next highest level and so on e.g. cannot find a match of a song so redirect a track link to land on an album page a bonus song only available on an album that is available in a specific country cannot be found at the highest and next highest level then descend to another level such as artist etc. . While various examples pertain to songs various approaches may apply to other digital media including for example applications. As to applications metadata may include categories application developer etc. Further decay may apply to any of a variety of goods services etc. For example an on line retailer may provide white goods small appliances tools etc. As an example consider a tool that performs a specific function e.g. a hex wrench of a certain size . A decay process may search for tools that can perform the same function e.g. hex wrench size optionally within sets of tools e.g. a wrench set materials of construction handle size etc.

In the example of the decay process may include the search operation . For example if a match is not possible for a song at an album level or an artist level due to too much noise or false positives then the search operation may be initiated for example with one or more terms parsed from a URL the site where the URL exists etc. to assist a user in finding what he desires. For the search operation such a search may be initiated using an API or other features associated with one or more store fronts or other databases e.g. AMG database etc. . As an example a decay process may perform a search that formulates a URL link to drop a user at a results page of a search performed using at least some metadata. Further results from the search operation may be analyzed as to relevance number etc. and a decision made as to whether such results should be communicated to a user for example via a redirect to a page at the originating site or via a redirect to a page at a store front site or via a redirect to a page at a database site e.g. AMG database etc. . Where search results are deemed as being less than optimal detracting from user intent etc. the decay process may proceed to another operation.

As shown in the search operation may include a search by genre operation e.g. user is dropped in a genre listings page for the same genre that the original item came from such as in response to no match for the band U2 and the song With Or Without You so drop to a rock genre page a search by media type operation e.g. user is dropped at the front door of the store for the same media type such as in response to cannot determine genre of the U2 song With Or Without You so drop at the store front .

As to the media format operation the decay process may include an option such that at any point in decay a logical flag may be inserted to allow for the addition of other media formats e.g. media types to be included e.g. to expand a search number of results etc. . For example where an original link is for a digital music download on Amazon.com but at a certain level e.g. a definable level in the decay process expanded media options may become available so that a search can start searching for CDs or digital download music videos. As to media formats such formats may include categories ebook audiobook paperback hardcover Kindle book mp3 track CD music video VOD TV Show DVD VOD Movie. VOD Rental etc. The redirection service may optionally provide standard customizable etc. options for a client or clients e.g. site owners etc. . Such options may include learning that aims to provide an optimal user experience commercial benefit etc.

As mentioned the decay process may perform a store front operation to redirect to an entry page e.g. home page for a store front. Such an operation may be a default operation for example where a link is malformed upon receipt by a redirection service where a link cannot be properly parsed to initiation a process where an error is thrown due to a problem with a link etc.

The defined exit operation is an example of another type of operation which may or may not be part of the decay process . Such an exit may optionally be defined by a client of a redirection service e.g. owner of a site for example to define an error page that a user would be redirected to at any point in a decay process by flagging where the decay should stop. As an example a default may be to never show a client s error page and allow the decay to go all the way to the store front. Consider a situation where a client only wants song tracks returned to users i.e. the client never wants their users to be dropped to an album or lower. In such a situation the client could define an exit operation to stop the decay process after the best match operation e.g. to redirect a user to an error page instead of decaying further .

In various examples described herein a redirector may be a computer or computing system e.g. a server that includes an interface that receives a URL responsive to a user activating an Internet link via an application e.g. a browser application an application that presents a user interface for activating an Internet link etc. where the URL comprises metadata for an item specified by a country based Internet store circuitry that identifies a base country of the user by resolving an Internet Protocol address associated with the user e.g. according to a device running the application etc. circuitry that decides if the base country of the user differs from the country of the country based Internet store and circuitry that formulates if the base country differs a URL for redirecting the user to a country based Internet store for a country that corresponds to the base country of the user. As an example the interface may be a network interface operable according to one or more standards associated with the Internet. As an example the circuitry that identifies may include hardware software etc. that resolves an IP address to identify a region. As an example the circuitry that decides may include hardware software etc. that compares a code resolved from an IP address to a code associated with the country based Internet store. As an example the circuitry that formulates may include hardware software etc. that formulates a URL using memory and a processor which may access information stored locally remotely or locally and remotely. As to the URL it may provide for directly redirecting or indirectly redirecting e.g. first redirecting to an affiliate .

As described herein a computing system may include circuitry that determines whether an item specified by a country based Internet store matches an item specified by a country based Internet store for a country that corresponds to a base country of a user. In such an example circuitry may parse URL metadata to issue a query to a database issue a call specified by an application programming interface of the country based Internet store etc.

As described herein a computing system may include circuitry that determines a best match for an item for a country based Internet store for a country that corresponds to a base country of a user. Such a system may include circuitry that formulates a URL based at least in part on the best match circuitry that parses the metadata for search terms circuitry that issues a search to a database using at least one search term etc.

As described herein a computing system can include circuitry that formulates a URL that includes information for an affiliate of a country based Internet store for a country that corresponds to a base country of a user e.g. an affiliate identification code circuitry that formulates a URL that redirects a user to a website of an affiliate of a country based Internet store for a country that corresponds to a base country of the user etc.

As described herein a method can include receiving a URL responsive to a user activating a link via an application e.g. where the application may be a browser or other application where the URL includes metadata for an item specified by a country based Internet store identifying a base country of the user by resolving the user s Internet Protocol address deciding if the base country of the user differs from the country of the country based Internet store if the base country differs formulating a URL for redirecting the user to an affiliate website where the URL includes information for a country based Internet store for a country that corresponds to the base country of the user and if the base country does not differ formulating a URL for redirecting the user to an affiliate website where the URL includes information for the country based Internet store. In such an example the affiliate may be an internal affiliate or an external affiliate.

As described herein a method can include determining whether an item specified by a country based Internet store e.g. according to an ID descriptive data etc. matches an item specified by the country based Internet store for a country that corresponds to a base country of a user e.g. as specified by a code or resolved using an IP address . In such a method if the item does not match the method may include implementing a hierarchical decay process see e.g. example of and formulating a URL for redirecting the user to an appropriate Internet store e.g. or an affiliate website based at least in part on the hierarchical decay process e.g. results of a decay process whether logical or informational .

In various examples described herein various terms may be used such as Publisher e.g. a website owner an application developer a client of a redirection service etc. Affiliate e.g. a Publisher a website owner a client of redirection service that is also a member of an affiliate network program such as LinkShare TradeDoubler etc. User e.g. a person that activates e.g. clicks on a link on a site an app etc. where that site app etc. may be at least a client of a redirection service Link on a Site or App e.g. a link that redirects a user to a redirection service such that the redirection service can perform various acts Redirection Service e.g. a service that has for example publishers as clients and that can redirect users as appropriate for example either directly to an appropriate Internet store or to an affiliate program site which in turn redirects the user to an appropriate Internet store as determined by the redirection service Advertiser e.g. iTunes Amazon.com someone selling something via an affiliate program etc. Affiliate Network e.g. LinkShare TradeDoubler an aggregator of advertisers and publishers etc. .

Traditionally an affiliate program for an international brand is actually a series of separate affiliate programs each for a specific geographically segmented online store front. These affiliate programs are typically administered through separate Affiliate Networks the companies that aggregate affiliate Publishers and Advertisers provide account management tracking and payout as Affiliate Networks tend to also be geographically segmented. They also tend to be clustered around certain regions or continents if multinational.

Affiliate Networks tend to offer affiliate services in a single geographic location. In comparison many Internet based retailers Advertisers have a world wide following which is also true for many popular content type websites or applications Publishers . This creates a problem for affiliate Publishers as they are restricted into making commissions only on the sales they generate within one geographic region and do not tend to capitalize on the sales from other online store fronts. Generally Publishers will use only one affiliate program the one that is associated with the store in the country where the largest amount of their traffic originates.

As described herein for purposes of e commerce a redirection service may provide geolocation services and affiliate marketing services. As an example embodiment consider a Publisher A that owns a website that is content based for example a blog . In order to monetize his traffic he has affiliate links on his website to an online retailer s store front that sells products relevant to his website content. When clicked these affiliate links direct his traffic to a specific item in the pre specified online store front where purchases are made. The affiliate link contains specialized affiliate tracking information allowing sales inside the Advertiser s store front that originate from the Publisher s website or application to be deemed affiliated. The Advertiser through the Affiliate Network then provides a commission to Publisher A for referring that sale to the Advertiser. When Publisher A uses the standard affiliate links provided by a single Affiliate Network he only generates a commission on sales in a specific online store front and does not receive a commission on sales made in international online store fronts by the same Advertiser. Using standard affiliate links also has the potential to direct his traffic to the wrong online store wrong geographic location where the traffic might not be allowed or able to purchase the intended goods. One example is if the traffic may need to have a bank account or credit card from the same region to purchase from the online store front or if the shipping costs would be too high due to international transfer. The traffic may also receive an error when following a standard affiliate link as their settings for their default store front will conflict with the store front to which the traffic is directed.

Using a redirection service the Publisher s specialized affiliate links would first send traffic to the Service Provider where the traffic s proper country is determined systematically. The traffic is then dynamically built a new custom URL that is specific to the geographically appropriate target online store front. The traffic is redirected through the proper Affiliate Network as determined from the user s geographic location to the correct store. This keeps the user from receiving an error allows the traffic to land on the most relevant page for the link they clicked and provides the ability to purchase the intended item s . This also ensures the Publisher has the potential of receiving commissions from the affiliate program for that country s specific store.

As described herein a redirection service may provide for allowing multiple geographically segmented affiliate programs to be used simultaneously through the use of a single URL on a website e.g. accessed via a web browser application or from within an application e.g. an iPad application an iPhone application etc. . As an example a process can use logic to determine the geographic location of the user and then translate and encode a URL into a geographically relevant affiliate link which includes the affiliate tracking information and directs the user into the appropriate store front based on location.

In various examples described herein a redirection service may allow Publishers to utilize more than one geographically segmented affiliate program through multiple Affiliate Networks to capitalize on international Internet traffic.

If the URL is determined to be invalid following the process in then per a decision block one or more other actions may occur as indicated by another action s block . The block may for example take the original URL that was passed in and pass the user on to it or drop the user at the store front. As another example the user may be dropped at a client defined error page e.g. as if a decay process hits a maximum allowed level of decay . However if the link is determined to be valid per the decision block it will then go through a process to determine the user s International Standards Organization 2 letter geographical country code or ISO2 for short . The ISO2 determination process is further explained in but is used to determine the correct geographic store front for the user. ISO2 country codes are the standard for identifying the different countries throughout the world.

Once the user s ISO2 Country Code is determined the next step in the process is to determine if the item the original link pointed to is available in the user s appropriate store front . This procedure defines if there is a store front available in that particular geographic location that best matches with the user s country as shown in .

As an example a check may be performed to determine if the exact same item is available in a store in the geographic location e.g. correct country store . If so the process can continue whereas if not a lookup may be performed to get item metadata and then at least some of that metadata used to find a best match in the appropriate country store.

Once the target online store front has been resolved the next sub process may be to figure out if the provider of this service can skim which is the transparent process of rerouting a click with an affiliate code specific to the Service Providers instead of the Publishers see determine skimming block which may optionally be located elsewhere in the process . This is an example of a revenue model the Service Provider may use to be compensated for providing the Publisher with the service other models could be pay per click monthly charge etc. An example of a Skimming process is shown in .

After the skimming determination process the original deep link e.g. landing page URL search link item link category link etc. is analyzed in order to parse the Advertiser s data . This involves breaking down the link to determine what data is contained in the link. A process shown in illustrates data parsing in more detail.

If at this point the data is parsed correctly the service will start the procedure to determine the best matching item for the target country s store front which was determined by the user s ISO2 . The service determines if the specific item mentioned in the original URL can be found and if so uses relevant metadata for that item to find a similar item in the geographically correct online store front. shows an example of this process in more detail.

If the requested digital good hard good service etc. is available in the user s location the next step is to formulate the original deep link e.g. landing page URL search link item link category link etc. into a link that includes all of the updated information for that user s geographical location e.g. store front item number etc. . The Publisher s relevant affiliate tracking information is also applied at this step or Service Provider s if being skimmed to ensure the sale is affiliated. shows an example of a formatting process e.g. to properly formulate and format a URL .

Information pertaining to the click including the user s ISO2 referring URL date stamp source country and destination country may be persisted e.g. recorded per a persist block . As an example various types of information may be persisted for example for purposes of report generation etc. As indicated by an optional persist queued information block clicks may be queued in memory by the persist block for example to a certain number or after a certain time to be written to a database e.g. instead of writing this information to the database after every click . Such an approach allows for speed optimization. shows an example of a process in more detail.

For the process a user is redirected to a new link that has been appropriately formulated and formatted . Once redirected the user arrives at an appropriate online store front while affiliate tracking information is preserved and applied. As an example such a process may occur where the store front is an Amazon.com store noting that for other stores a user may be redirected via an affiliate network e.g. an affiliate network of an iTunes store .

The process may be hidden from a user i.e. the user has no indication that one or more redirects have occurred e.g. to a redirection service and then to a store front other than the one associated with a link on a site . The process can be traceable for the Publisher and Advertiser such that the Publisher gets credit and such that the Advertiser can track a sale. shows an example of a redirection process . In the end the user will arrive at an online store front on the page preferably with the item most relevant to the referenced item in the original link. As shown in for a redirection service after processing of the click the process may be complete see completion block .

If however the general format appears to be correct the next step is to validate for example that the Service Provider s identification information is present and correct . If information is missing or incorrect the process may continue to a determination block that indicates at least some of the information as Not Valid. If appropriate information is present and is formatted correctly then a URL Parser is called to make sure the overall format including the appropriate information is recognized . If not the process may be deemed Not Valid and one or more other actions may occur per the other action s block see e.g. block of decay process of etc. . If however the above are deemed valid the link s source country s ISO2 will be determined and noted . As to appropriate information it may include metadata used by a redirection service sufficient to determine for example a user a country and a store that the link was built from which may optionally be a username and a store link itself.

As an example if a redirection service geolocates an IP address to an ISO2 instead of a no match then it may be used. A person system etc. building a link may be able to override for example to use a specific ISO2 instead of IP address based approach to country or region determination see e.g. optional override block .

However if an online store front is available in the users geographical region the service then searches to see if the online store front has an affiliate program per a decision block . If the store front does the service will then continue on to the next step and will use an affiliate link . Alternatively if the online store front does not have an affiliate program then the service will continue without using an affiliate link . If the link continues without including the affiliate parameters then the Publisher will not be credited for this sale. However the user will still make it to the geographically correct online store front to make the purchase instead of being brought to a dead link or the wrong online store front where they might not be able to make the purchase.

As an example a redirection service may redirect to a most geographically relevant store. For example someone from Austria may buy regularly from an Amazon.de Internet store in Germany. Accordingly traffic from Austria may be deemed as being appropriate for Germany. As an example a redirection service may optionally encode all traffic from a country that does not have an affiliate program for a particular store or stores to pick up on any travelers or people that may have figured out a way to make purchases in a specific store e.g. consider a scenario where people in Malaysia are using US iTunes gift cards to set up an account and buy content from the US iTunes store because there is no store in their country . A process may determine if metrics can be preserved while affiliate encoding all links and if so such encoding may occur.

As shown in per the decision block the process will proceed to skip skimming or to another decision block to determine if skimming is allowable. If not the process continues at a tracking block to track based on client. Otherwise the process continues at a tracking block to track based on service e.g. the GeoRiot service skims .

In the example of at block passive skimming may be handled as in block where the redirection service may skim. A process may include checking to determine whether an Internet store has an affiliate network supported if so then the process may include checking to determine whether its supported and continue on to for example block . If not supported then such a process may include checking to determine whether the redirection service provider supports it. If so the redirection service provider may skim it otherwise it may be passed on without any affiliate tracking e.g. sent straight to the appropriate Internet store . In instances where a client supports the Internet store and the redirection service provider does as well a default state may be to the decision logic block e.g. can skim .

After the Parse block a decision block follows that decides if the data matches what can be found in the store front. If so the process continues to the next step with the parsed data . If not the process will halt and throw a Malformed URL error .

An example of a link build process can optionally programmatically build a redirection service provider link from a catalog of raw landing page links. Such an approach may be appropriate where a database of raw links exists and links can be programmatically built. As an example a base redirection service link may be http target.georiot.com Proxy.ashx grid 64 where to this is added GR URL with a URL encoded raw landing page URL attached to the end. For example if a target raw landing page URL is http itunes.apple.com us album once id331012810 i 331013504 the URL is encoded to http 3A 2F 2Fitunes.apple.com 2Fus 2Falbum 2 Fonce 2Fid331012810 3Fi 3D331013504. Given a base georiot URL e.g. http target.georiot.com Proxy.ashx grid 64 to this may be added GR URL followed by the encoded version of the raw landing page URL e.g. as in previous step to yield a quick build style link http target.georiot.com Proxy.ashx grid 64 GR URL http 3A 2F 2Fitunes. apple.com 2Fus 2 Falbum 2Fonce 2Fid331012810 3Fi 3D331013504.

Another type of link is referred to as a search link which may be appropriate where an existing affiliate link is not at hand a landing page URL is not at hand and some information or metadata about an item one wishes to link to is at hand. Such a link may for example be appropriate for handling a change in information of an Internet store etc. For example if an iTunes store changes the ID of the item linked to some assurances are provided that the link will not break and that it will not have to be updated. Such a type of link may include parameters such as for a music example vendor iTunes type Music ArtistName URL encoded text AlbumName URL encoded text and TrackName URL encoded text . As an example for the Pearl Jam song Jeremy from the album Ten from an iTunes store http target.georiot.com Search.ashx grid Client ID vendor iTunes type Music ArtistName Pearl Jam AlbumName Ten TrackName Jeremy. As an example for a user to go to the artist page for Lady Gaga in an iTunes store http target.georiot.com Search.ashx grid GRID vendor iTunes type Music ArtistName Lady GaGa.

Again where the decision block decides that the item is not found in the destination store e.g. appropriate store for a user the service may proceed to a determination block to determine one or more search criteria e.g. based on metadata . The determination process includes a query or lookup for example in a source country store e.g. store associated with activated URL or database using at least some information about the item e.g. at least some metadata from the original URL . A determination block follows that determines one or more aspects of the item for example a type the item may be classified as e.g. digital media a product a service an app etc. .

In a decision block the additional information may be used to once again perform a query lookup etc. to determine if the item can be found in the destination store e.g. appropriate store for the user . Since there are some items that may be unavailable in all stores the last query lookup etc. sent in this process may be to determine if the exact item being requested is available within the specific country s store. If the item is available in that particular country s store the best match to the parsed data e.g. and optionally from data retrieved from an API data store etc. about an item defined in the metadata that was parsed will be the individual item within the store front . If not the best match may be to redirect the user to the destination store front instead as another action . For example if the original link was for a specific song and the service first tried to find that specific song if there is no match the service may search for the same artist and if still no match then the service may search for the correct media type music and again if a match is not present the final result may be a link to the general store front. As an example the decay process of may be implemented.

A process can include parsing data from a URL associated with a source store. In turn a query may be issued to a destination store e.g. an appropriate country or regional store using the parsed data which may include an item ID. If in response the item is identified then a user may be redirected to that item. However if in response the item is not identified then a best match process may commence which may or may not find that exact same item. Such a process may query the source store using an item ID and then extract additional data e.g. metadata about the item. Using this additional data the destination store may once again be queried in an effort to optimally find the exact same item. However as the additional data may not be sufficient to uniquely identify the item a next best effort may be to provide a URL to a group of items at the destination store e.g. an album a tool category a director s films etc. . Such a process may be iterative in that some metadata may be used first and if a unique item is not returned then more metadata may be used.

As an example consider a US based user on an iPhone running an application about cooking e.g. the application Guia do Churrasco for planning an authentic Brazilian barbeque . The user may navigate various types of cuts of meat etc. and the application may display an ad banner for a particular 10 inch hardened steel knife having a wooden handle sold by a company that has Internet store locations in the US and Brazil. Using the redirection service the user will be directed to the US Internet store and if not to the exact same knife according to a best match or decay process to a page of the US Internet store that displays for example a number of 10 inch hardened steel knives having wooden handles e.g. manufactured by the same manufacturer etc. .

As shown in the process or starts when the service receives a request through a specialized affiliate link Receive Request . For the second step the service goes through a process to determine where the user is geographically located by looking up their IP address in a GeoIP database. This step also includes parsing relevant information from the URL Locate . After the user is located the service will then determine the most applicable URL for the user by identifying data in the requested URL. The service will lookup details about the intended destination whether it be to a specific item or more general e.g. this can include taking into account search items category links etc. . The service will then using the data from the previous query locate the best match for the user s geographic location Translate . Once the end point is determined the service will create a new URL for the store front and item. If there is no perfect match for the intended item the system will allow the precision to decay until a best match is made. The new URL takes into account the appropriate affiliate encoding Encode . Finally the user will be redirected to the appropriate affiliate network Redirect User .

Referring to the various details of the process commences at step when a user initiates a request by visiting an affiliate link from any Internet connected device which can include but is not limited to laptops desktops smart phones and tablet computers.

The service receives the request and performs a basic URL validation process at . The process includes ensuring the necessary information is included for the user to get to their destination as well as checking the general format of the link.

After the request has been received the next step is to resolve the user s Internet Protocol IP Address against a list of IP blocks and geographic regions in order to place the user within a geographical location. This is a common practice called geolocation. If the system is unable to determine the country of origin it will assume a default target country e.g. US .

The following step determines the format of the incoming URL so that data can be gathered. The URL is matched against a list of supported formats. Once the format is determined the service is able to extract the data required. Based on this data the service is able to determine items such as Advertiser Publisher Source Country Unique Item Identifier Search String and tracking data.

At this point the process can split based on what data was identified in step . The data can either be for a specific item or can contain search criteria see step . If the data contains search criteria then the process resumes at step . If the data identified is for a specific item at the service will then query a data store specific to the Advertiser s store front at step . If the data store returns information for the item specific query then the process moves to step . If no data is returned the process moves to step . When data is returned from the original data source the service notes the item s relevant attributes as at . Those relevant attributes are then used to query the data source specific to the user s location at .

Depending on the quality and number of results returned the service may repeat the query with reduced precision by omitting certain relevant attributes at . This process will continue until a best match is determined. The best match may have the same or reduced precision as the requested item.

The next step for the service is to determine who will be the beneficiary of the potential commissions that come from this URL through the process of skimming . Skimming is defined as the transparent process of rerouting a click with the Service Provider s affiliate code instead of a Publisher s for a pre defined percentage of clicks. For example if the effective skim rate was 15 then 15 out of 100 clicks would be redirected to use the Service Provider s affiliate tracking parameters instead of the Publisher s.

The determined beneficiary will have their specific affiliate tracking parameters attached to the final URL. If the Publisher is not active with an affiliate program for a specific online store front but there is an active affiliate program then by default this link is skimmed. The encoding of the new URL with the Service Providers affiliate tracking information is a revenue driver.

Once the end destination and beneficiary are determined the service will based on information associated with the original URL formulate a new URL to get the user to the proper destination based off the steps above . The new URL will be encoded with the affiliate tracking information for the beneficiary and will point to the result that was determined to be the best match from the original URL. If the destination online store front does not have an affiliate program the link will not contain any tracking code.

After the URL has been reformulated e.g. reformulated translated etc. into the new deep link with the proper tracking and affiliate codes the click information is then persisted into the Service Provider s database in step . The information regarding the geolocation date time and item they clicked on is queued up to be stored e.g. persisted into the Service Provider s database for tracking reporting and future skimming purposes e.g. stored locally and then directed to a database for longer term storage . This information may be later used for the Publisher s benefit and determining traffic origin and for trend analysis purposes reports etc.

Once the click information has been queued for persistence into the Service Provider s database the last step in the process is to redirect the user using the new URL created. The entire process up through this point is transparent to the user. Finally the user is redirected to the best match item in their geographically specific store or into the default store if their location doesn t have a unique store front.

Continuing with in a reception block the indicated affiliate LinkShare aka linksynergy receives the affiliate link with affiliate information from the redirection service GeoRiot . In a concatenation block the affiliate concatenates the landing page information and tracking information e.g. using an ampersand as specified by an Internet store etc. having an affiliate program . In a transmission block the affiliate transmits the link and converts the tracking information to an affiliate cookie. In a landing block the user lands at an appropriate landing page for the Internet store where the affiliate cookie is set for consumption by the Internet store s affiliate program for the benefit of the affiliate.

In the example of as the user is a US based user it is determined by the redirection service GeoRiot that the appropriate Internet store is a US iTunes store which has an affiliate program LinkShare for which the client is a member.

As described herein a method may skip an affiliate network redirect while still appending parameters to the end of a store link e.g. just as an affiliate network may perform for example to enhance performance e.g. end to end performance .

As indicated in a redirect block the process performed by the redirection service occurs without having the user stop on the redirection service s site e.g. target.georiot.com . Such a process may occur via a 3XX redirect e.g. as specified by the HTTP .

Continuing with in a reception block the indicated affiliate network Tradedoubler receives the affiliate link with affiliate information from the redirection service GeoRiot . In an affiliate redirection block the affiliate is redirected to the DE store. In a transmission block the affiliate transmits the link and converts the tracking information to an affiliate token. In a landing block the DE user lands at an appropriate landing page for the Internet store where the affiliate cookie is set for consumption by the Internet store s affiliate program for the benefit of the affiliate.

In the example of as the user is a DE based user it is determined by the redirection service GeoRiot that the appropriate Internet store is a DE iTunes store which has an affiliate program TradeDoubler for which the client is a member.

As indicated in a redirect block the process performed by the redirection service occurs without having the user stop on the redirection service s site e.g. target.georiot.com . Such a process may occur via a 3XX redirect e.g. as specified by the HTTP .

In the example of as the user is a MX based user it is determined by the redirection service GeoRiot that the appropriate Internet store is a MX iTunes store which does not have an affiliate program.

As indicated in a redirect block the process performed by the redirection service occurs without having the user stop on the redirection service s site e.g. target.georiot.com .

As indicated in a redirect block the process performed by the redirection service occurs without having the user stop on the redirection service s site e.g. target.georiot.com .

In the example of as the user is a DE based user it is determined by the redirection service GeoRiot that the appropriate Internet store is a DE amazon.com store.

As described herein translation of a URL can enhance user experience optionally with decay to control user experience when a user tries to access an incorrect store. As to affiliates a process may optionally handle an internal affiliate or an external affiliate. For example the amazon.com model may be referred to as an internal affiliate while the iTunes model may be referred to as an external affiliate. A process may optionally provide for skimming by a redirection service. For example such skimming may be passive e.g. where client has no account in country or active e.g. changing affiliate tracking parameters from client s to that of a redirection service .

As an example of a redirection process consider a user in Germany browsing and wanting to buy a song as listed on a redirection service s client s website that is based in the US e.g. with a link to a US e commerce store . In such an example when the user clicks on the link the redirection service collects metadata e.g. user s locale and intended destination and redirects the user e.g. using API or other mechanism to do searches and lookups to a German e commerce store hopefully to the desired song ready to purchase with a single click . In turn the user may buy the song from the German e commerce store e.g. not even knowing she has been redirected .

A client of a redirection service may be part of an affiliate program which may provide a commission for directing sales to an Internet store e.g. iTunes US where the client s website has an affiliate link to iTunes US . Where a client wants commissions on all purchases worldwide that client may have to sign up with as many affiliate programs available in as many countries. As an alternative a redirection service may allow that client to merely sign up with the redirection service where the redirection service manages affiliate programs in various regions. Accordingly in such an example when the client signs up for the redirection service that client may be automatically provided use of all relevant affiliate programs simultaneously e.g. via a single link per item on the client s site . In such an example prospective purchasers e.g. users are redirected to appropriate Internet store fronts e.g. iTunes stores that may be country specific stores where the redirection service ensures proper affiliate tracking for its client.

As to skimming a redirection service may practice passive skimming for example where the redirection service collects commissions where its client is not a member of an affiliate program in a foreign country. As to active skimming this pertains to situations where the client of the redirection service is active with an affiliate program associated with destination store but the affiliate tracking is switched to use the redirection service s account instead of the client s accounts. As an example active skimming may happen for countries where translation is necessary not for their base program country link and active skimming may happen where passive skimming is not high enough to meet an agreed upon percentage e.g. 15 or other percent .

If the decision block decides that the redirection service enabled link indicates that the publisher of the site is an affiliate of an affiliate program in a redirection block the redirection service redirects the user via an affiliate program site using a redirection URL that includes affiliate information. In a registration block the affiliate program site registers tracking information. In a redirection block the affiliate program site redirects the user to the Internet store using an appropriate URL. In an arrival block the user arrives at the Internet store and is able to purchase an item associated with the redirection enabled link that appeared on the iOS app website blog etc. where the affiliate information is intact.

As an example if the item is an iTunes store item and the user is located in the US or Canada that user may be redirected through LinkShare. If that user is located in one of the countries in Europe for example that user may be redirected through TradeDoubler. If that user is located in Australia or New Zealand that user may be redirected through DGM Pro and if that user is in Japan then that user may be redirected through LinkShare Japan.

In the example of in the process of an affiliate network redirect the click may be recorded and a cookie placed. For example in block the user may be redirected to the iTunes Preview page where the affiliate cookie is placed and in block the user is then redirected onto the relevant landing page inside the store. In such an approach because the user was directed to the correct store with the proper affiliate tracking the user is able to buy the product they were initially interested in purchasing and the publisher of the site will receive any resulting commissions. As indicated by blocks and if the user clicks on a link for an iTunes item and it is determined that the user is coming from a country where there is no affiliate program that user may be redirected to the proper iTunes store e.g. according to the translation block which can translate a link for one country store to a different country store based on country of a user . Accordingly the user will be able to purchase her desired item but no commission will be generated because there is no supporting affiliate program for that store.

While the example of is shown as including a redirection service and an affiliate program site a redirection service may optionally be included as a service of an affiliate program site. In such an example where the redirection service of the block is a service of the affiliate program site the block may continue directly to the block . In the example of a determination process may optionally be implemented to determine a beneficiary e.g. one or more parties that should or may benefit from traffic a redirect a purchase etc. .

As described herein a redirection service can provide a link proxy service that allows for multiple geographically segmented affiliate programs to be used simultaneously. The service can send a click on an affiliate link first to the redirection service where the service geo targets where the user is coming from translates the link to work best for the user s regional store and then affiliate encode the link such that the site owner e.g. publisher affiliate client etc. receives commissions on possible sales.

A redirection service can proceed via three steps to ensure that the final URL is best matched for a user and her regional Internet store. Such an approach ensures the site owner e.g. publisher affiliate client that it is maximizing its commissions and that the user does not receive an error after clicking on the item s link as it is provided according to the redirection service.

A redirection service may use geo targeting which is a practice of delivering content that is specific to a user s location. The redirection service may implement a process e.g. IP address resolution or other that identifies where the user is clicking from in order to determine which Internet store is the best match for that user.

A redirection service may use one or more rules and logic to quickly translate a link s intended destination into a link appropriate for an international user and his relevant Internet store. A redirection service may after a link is translated encode it with the appropriate affiliate parameters to match the standards for the relevant affiliate network if one exists. Matching the user s appropriate Internet store to the corresponding affiliate network and program helps to ensure that a sale will result in a commission for the owner of the site. Such a process can also provide for exchange of user level tracking parameters for example for seamless internal tracking.

For situations where an affiliate network allows for user level tracking a redirection service may pass those parameters back and forth between an affiliate network and a redirection service may optionally record such parameters e.g. for purposes of learning reporting commerce etc. .

Rerouting each user to the right item in the correct Internet store drastically improves affiliate conversion rates for a site owner e.g. publisher . Instead of sending every click to one Internet store and hoping that store can purchase from that store a redirection service can act to send each user to an appropriate regional Internet store where he has a better chance of finding the item and making a purchase.

It may be assumed throughout this description that each location user client affiliate etc. has appropriate hardware and software to perform various actions. Known terminals processors routers switches modems servers connecting links communication methods ISPs and or output devices interfaces may be used as appropriate.

As to the one or more interfaces the system may include one or more network interfaces configured for communication with the Internet either directly or indirectly. As to the other circuitry it may include wireless circuitry configured for communication via one or more wireless networks optionally including one or more cellular networks e.g. 3G 4G etc. . The system may optionally be configured as a single device or as a collection of devices.

In the method an application is configured to communicate directly or indirectly via the Internet e.g. a web browser or other application . In the example of communication is shown as occurring via HTTP noting that other types of communication may be used. The system acts to direct the application to an appropriate location e.g. the best location . As shown the system includes features to act on receipt of a URL and to formulate a redirect URL . As described in various example the redirect URL may be a best location URL for example based on logical operations performed by the system which may include one or more operations that rely on resources external to the system .

The URL may be formulated according to a data structure such as for example a data structure shown in one or more of the . Such data structures may be considered as having data fields for example as appended or concatenated to form a URL e.g. according to standard characters such as etc. . Data fields may be specific to one or more parties and may provide for one or more functions e.g. item related commission related etc. . Such a data structure may exist at one or more locations stored in a memory e.g. physical memory of a server a client etc. . Such a data structure may be formed using a process e.g. a product formed by a process . For example a data field or data fields may correspond to best location information determined by a decay process. Information included in one or more fields of the data structure may be or act as instructions to instruct an application e.g. a browser application a server application etc. to perform one or more actions e.g. access information transmit information package information etc. . As an example information may optionally be structured according to an API call that causes a machine to perform one or more operations and optionally return information.

As an example the system may include a URL parser block for parsing a received URL e.g. URL to provide information to a logic block for formulating a new URL e.g. URL . A received URL may optionally include special metadata dictated by a redirection service e.g. a service ID etc. that may instruct the system to use certain parser features logic etc. More generally a received URL may include information such as one or more of an application ID a client ID a user ID a store e.g. iTunes amazon.com etc. or a country a link is associated with US DE etc. . The system may respond to receipt of such information and formulate a new URL for redirection to an appropriate location e.g. as determined by a process performed at least in part by the system .

Instructions for performing operations described herein may optionally be stored in a computer e.g. a computer a phone a tablet etc. with circuitry such as a processor readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable ROMs EPROMs electrically erasable programmable ROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a bus. A computer readable medium can include any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer .

Although various examples of methods devices systems etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as examples of forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems etc.

