---

title: Emission of a commencement sound and a conclusion sound
abstract: Various embodiments associated with a commencement sound and a conclusion sound are described. The commencement sound can be a firing sound, such as a sound of a bullet exiting a rifle. The conclusion sound can be an impact sound, such as a sound of the bullet impacting a concrete wall. These sounds can replicate what it sounds like to have an experience around someone without actually subjecting that person to the experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09445208&OS=09445208&RS=09445208
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09445208
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140904
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

During basic and advanced training soldiers can be taught soldiering skills to make them more efficient and productive members of a military force. In one example a soldier can be trained how to effectively drive a sports utility vehicle over rough terrain. However this training can be limited if it does not properly simulate a real world situation for the soldier. Therefore training can be tailored to vividly resemble a potential real world situation.

In one embodiment a system comprises a source speaker component and a destination speaker component. The source speaker component can be configured to emit a commencement sound that communicates an initiation of an object in travel. The destination speaker component can be configured to emit a conclusion sound that communicates a result of the object in travel. The source speaker component the destination speaker component or a combination thereof can be implemented at least in part by way of hardware.

In one embodiment a system comprises a source speaker component a destination speaker component and a housing. The source speaker component can emit a commencement sound that communicates an initiation of a first object in travel. The destination speaker component can emit a conclusion sound that communicates a result of a second object in travel where the first object in travel and the second object in travel are not the same object in travel. The housing can retain the source speaker component and the destination speaker component.

In one embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is configured to store computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method. The method can comprise identifying an initiation command entered upon a graphical user interface for an audible sequence. The method can also comprise causing implementation of the audible sequence in response to identifying the initiation command where the audible sequence comprises a firing audible portion and an impact audible portion.

Various sounds can be used to recreate a real world experience such as a commencement sound e.g. firing sound a conclusion sound e.g. impact sound and a reverberation sound. These sounds can be realistic high fidelity sounds used in a realistic location for training purposes therapy purposes entertainment purposes etc. For example using gunfight sounds in soldier or police training can make the training more vivid and authentic can better prepare soldiers and police for stressful environments they may encounter etc. However practicing these aspects can have the benefit of not actually placing the soldiers and police in danger and not using actual weapons that can be costly.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

This sound experience can be used in various applications. In one example the system can create a sound experience for soldiers in training. While the soldiers are training they can hear sounds similar to that of combat which can make them more prepared to perform while under the stresses of combat. Similarly in actual combat operations the sound experience can be used to confuse an enemy force or in a law enforcement operation to confuse captors in a hostage situation. Additionally the system can be used in a therapeutic environment for soldiers such as to aid in treatment of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder PTSD e.g. use sounds to help patients disassociate sounds with trauma and to gradually desensitize patients from those sounds . In addition to military applications aspects disclosed herein can be used in non military applications. In one example the system can be used in an amusement park to make a ride seem more realistic. In this example the source speaker component can emit a sound of a lightning bolt coming from the sky and the destination speaker component can emit a sound of the lightning bolt impacting a tree on the ground.

The source speaker component can be retained by a first housing while the destination speaker component can be retained by a second housing that is physically separate from the first housing. Therefore the source speaker component can be physically separate from the destination speaker component such as being on different sides of a listener. The destination speaker component can emit the conclusion sound after a start of emission of the commencement sound as well as after the end of emission of the commencement sound. Therefore the source speaker component from the first housing can emit a sound of a weapon such as an artillery cannon firing a shell e.g. from a speaker and after a period of time the destination speaker component from the second housing can emit a sound of the shell impacting a target such as an abandoned building.

In one embodiment the first housing retains a transmitter e.g. part of the source speaker component while the second housing retains a receiver e.g. part of the destination speaker component . The housings can each retain a transmitter and receiver. The transmitter can be configured to transmit to the receiver a message that provides information with regard to when in time the destination speaker component should emit the conclusion sound e.g. a set time that the conclusion sound should be emitted after a set time that no conclusion sound should be emitted etc. . Therefore the first housing and second housing can be in communication with one another. This communication can be used to coordinate time emission of the commencement sound and conclusion sound. In one example the first housing can emit the commencement sound and send a message to the second housing that the commencement sound is emitted. The second housing can then emit the conclusion sound and send a message back to the first housing that the conclusion sound has been emitted. In response to receiving the message from the second housing the first housing can emit another commencement sound e.g. the same commencement sound a different commencement sound etc. .

In one embodiment the destination speaker component is configured to monitor emission of the commencement sound to produce a monitor result. The destination speaker component can be configured to decide a time to emit the conclusion sound based at least in part on the monitor result. The destination speaker component can be configured to emit the conclusion sound at the time. Therefore as opposed to directly communicating with one another the destination speaker component can determine on its own when to emit the conclusion sound based on when the commencement sound is emitted.

The source speaker component and the destination speaker component can share speaker hardware or be hardware independent of one another. In one example the source speaker component and the destination speaker component have their own individual speakers and share a speaker e.g. each component has its own speaker and then shares a speaker thus each component can function with two physical speakers . In another example a single speaker can be employed by both the source speaker component and the destination speaker component .

In one embodiment the reverberation sound is emitted later in time from the conclusion sound. In one example the reverberation sound is the reverberation from the initiation of the object in travel e.g. sound of artillery cannon vibration from the result of the object in travel e.g. dirt hitting the ground dislodged from cannon shell hitting a hillside or from a collateral action e.g. sound of bodies leaping to the ground to take cover . Therefore the reverberation sound can be emitted later in time from the commencement sound and or the conclusion sound.

The propulsion component can be configured to cause movement of a housing that retains at least part of the system to a location that is based at least in part on the sound instruction . This movement of the system can be tele operation e.g. by way of an interface or proactive e.g. automatic . Thus the system can be mobile e.g. employ wheels to drive employ rotors to fly employ a boat engine to travel by water etc. . The sound instruction can for example state that the sound should be emitted x feet from a right side of the user of where x is a real number. The propulsion component can cause movement of the housing such that a speaker of the source speaker component and or destination speaker component is positioned x feet away from the right side of the user of . As the user of moves the housing can move along with her by way of the propulsion component . The housing can also be moved from a first location to a second location by the propulsion component and remain in the second location for a set period of time.

In one example the system can retain a memory chip that retains a set of sound files as well as an internal clock. The sound instruction of can designate which sound file to play at a certain time and this can be recognized by the analysis component . In this example the sound instruction of can be an instruction to play a commencement sound of an AK 47 firing. The identification component can find an AK 47 sound file in the memory chip. More than one AK 47 sound file can exist and if the instruction does not specify then the system can use internal logic to select a sound file to use. Alternatively if no AK 47 sound file exists on the memory chip the system can improvise e.g. identify a similar sounding sound file or send an error message. The AK 47 sound file can include commencement conclusion and or reverberation sound information e.g. as one file as three separate files etc. . Once identified the recognition component can find the AK 47 sound file and thus give the system access to the AK 47 sound file. The implementation component can cause emission of the appropriate sound e.g. send an instruction to the source speaker component to play an AK 47 commencement sound from the sound file .

The source speaker component can be configured to emit a commencement sound that communicates an initiation of a first object in travel. The destination speaker component can be configured to emit a conclusion sound that communicates a result of a second object in travel. Thus a single system e.g. the system can retain the capability of functioning as a source and destination for sound.

In addition to the source speaker component and the destination speaker component the system can comprise the echo speaker component of . The echo speaker component of can be configured to emit a reverberation sound that communicates an echo of a third object in travel e.g. the first object in travel the second object in travel and the third object in travel are all different objects . The housing can retain the echo speaker component. Thus a single system e.g. the system can retain the capability of functioning as a source and destination for sound as well as supply reverberation sound.

In one example the system can comprise a single speaker along with a hardware and software combination e.g. the system discussed below can retain software . Depending on the instruction provided the system can emit the commencement sound the conclusion sound or the reverberation sound e.g. of different objects or of the same object . Thus one system can function in different roles. Further the source speaker component and the destination speaker component e.g. along with the echo speaker component of can be one physical item that functions in different roles.

The first object in travel and the second object in travel are not the same object in travel e.g. not the identically same object travelling at the same time and the same can be said for the third object in travel. In one embodiment the first object in travel and the second object in travel can be different object types e.g. the first object is a bullet and the second object is an artillery shell . In one embodiment the first object in travel and the second object in travel are different iterations of the same object type e.g. the first object and second object are both water crashing as a wave one earlier in time and one later in time .

In one example the antenna can be in communication with a computer system that sends an instruction to play file A that is retained in the computer readable medium . The processor can follow the instruction access file A and cause the speaker to play the sound associated with file A. The speaker component might not be informed if it is functioning as the source speaker component of the destination speaker component of or the echo speaker component of . To put another way the speaker component can function without knowledge of its own role. However file A may be designated as a conclusion sound and therefore the speaker component may recognize that it is functioning as the destination speaker component of . In one embodiment the computer readable medium can retain a sound file set for various situations such as file A. In addition the computer readable medium can retain protocol for component operations positional calculations software for implementations of the graphical user interface or software for communicating with other entities e.g. the central processing system .

In one example the antenna can receive the instruction from the computer as well as file A from the computer. Therefore as opposed to accessing a file retained in the computer readable medium the file can be received concurrently with the instruction. File A can be retained in the computer readable medium for future use such that file A is not required to be sent for every use of file A by the speaker component .

The sound selection portion can be used to select a sound to be emitted e.g. single sound such as a single conclusion sound sound set that comprises the commencement sound and conclusion sound etc. . The source selection portion the destination selection portion and the echo selection portion can be used to select where the sound is to be emitted. This selection can be for a specific speaker or for an area to emit the sound e.g. a component selects a best speaker in the area for use or if no speaker is in the area then the component selects a speaker to move to that area via the propulsion component of . The timing selection portion can be used to select when the sound is to be emitted. Portions of the interface can be multi layered such as the sound selection portion first asking whether a gun or cannon sound is to be used and if gun is selected then a second question can be which type of gun.

While the interface is shown it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the sound experience can be proactively created. In one example the system of can retain an artificial intelligence component that can make inferences and decisions. Information can be gathered e.g. soldier movement and based on this information the artificial intelligence component can determine what sounds to emit where to emit those sounds when to emit those sounds which speaker s to use where to move at least one speaker etc. The artificial intelligence component can be self learning such that the artificial intelligence component can update logic base on effectiveness of a sound experience.

Furthermore the interface can be implemented with fewer than the portions shown and or be used with some portions being ignored. In one example a person can select the sound and source by way of portions and and a component can select the destination based on various factors e.g. simulated wind speed simulated rain etc. . Once the interface gathers appropriate information and or the component makes the appropriate data selection s the proper destinations can be identified and information can be sent e.g. wirelessly . Example information are sound files themselves instructions on what sound files to use attenuation factors time information etc. In addition different information can be sent to different components e.g. a firing sound file sent to the source speaker component and an impact sound file sent to the destination speaker component .

As an example sequence a person can enter data by way of the portions . A component can calculate a plan for various components e.g. components and of and send data to each component in use such that the plan can be properly implemented. The components can then use this data to implement the plan.

In one embodiment the initiation command comprises a location command that identifies a location from which at least part of the audible sequence is emitted. Action can include causing at least part of the audible sequence to be outputted from the location. Also action can include causing a hardware element to move to the location and causing the audible sequence to at least in part be outputted after the hardware is moved to the location.

The audible sequence can comprise a firing audible portion and an impact audible portion. The firing audible portion can be implemented at a first location while the impact audible portion is implemented at a second location. The second location is distinct from the first location e.g. they are physically separate they are remote from one another etc. and the firing audible portion can be implemented earlier in time than the impact audible portion. In addition to the firing audible portion and the impact audible portion the audible sequence can comprise an echo audible portion. The echo audible portion can be implemented at a third location that is distinct from the first location and from the second location. The echo audible portion can be implemented later in time than the impact audible portion.

