---

title: Mutant Cas9 proteins
abstract: Methods of making mutant Cas9 proteins are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09074199&OS=09074199&RS=09074199
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 09074199
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 906 374 filed on Nov. 19 2013 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. P50 HG005550 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Bacterial and archaeal CRISPR Cas systems rely on short guide RNAs in complex with Cas proteins to direct degradation of complementary sequences present within invading foreign nucleic acid. See Deltcheva E. et al. CRISPR RNA maturation by trans encoded small RNA and host factor RNase III. 471 602 607 2011 Gasiunas G. Barrangou R. Horvath P. Siksnys V. Cas9 crRNA ribonucleoprotein complex mediates specific DNA cleavage for adaptive immunity in bacteria. 109 E2579 2586 2012 Jinek M. et al. A programmable dual RNA guided DNA endonuclease in adaptive bacterial immunity. 337 816 821 2012 Sapranauskas R. et al. The CRISPR Cas system provides immunity in 39 9275 9282 2011 and Bhaya D. Davison M. Barrangou R. CRISPR Cas systems in bacteria and archaea versatile small RNAs for adaptive defense and regulation. 45 273 297 2011 . A recent in vitro reconstitution of the type II CRISPR system demonstrated that crRNA CRISPR RNA fused to a normally trans encoded tracrRNA trans activating CRISPR RNA is sufficient to direct Cas9 protein to sequence specifically cleave target DNA sequences matching the crRNA. Expressing a gRNA homologous to a target site results in Cas9 recruitment and degradation of the target DNA. See H. Deveau et al. Phage response to CRISPR encoded resistance in 190 1390 February 2008 .

Cas9 is a DNA nuclease that can be programmed to target nearly any region of a genome by expressing a guide RNA gRNA that contains a motif that recruits Cas9 and 20 basepairs of complementarity to a region of the genome where targeting is desired. All characterized and putative Cas9 family members are several kilobases in size 3 000 basepairs with the smallest functionally validated member NM Cas9 Cas9 being 3 249 basepairs in size. The large size of this protein limits its potential for biotechnology and therapeutic applications due to difficulties of delivery and manipulation.

Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to an RNA guided DNA binding protein of a Type II CRISPR System that binds to the DNA and is guided by the one or more RNAs which has been engineered to omit portions of the protein while still functioning as an RNA guided DNA binding nuclease that can bind to target DNA and create a double stranded break in target DNA. According to one aspect the RNA guided DNA binding protein of a Type II CRISPR System is a Cas9 protein.

Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to an RNA guided DNA binding protein of a Type II CRISPR System which has been engineered to omit portions of the protein while still functioning as an RNA guided DNA binding nickase that can bind to target DNA and create a single stranded break or nick in target DNA. According to one aspect the RNA guided DNA binding protein of a Type II CRISPR System is a Cas9 protein.

Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to an RNA guided DNA binding protein of a Type II CRISPR System which has been engineered to omit portions of the protein while still functioning as an RNA guided DNA binding protein which is nuclease null that is the RNA guided DNA binding protein lacks nuclease activity. According to one aspect the RNA guided DNA binding protein of a Type II CRISPR System is a Cas9 protein.

According to one aspect portions of an RNA guided DNA binding protein are identified for deletion by identifying within a population of species of the RNA guided DNA binding protein sequences which are not well conserved or are otherwise highly divergent within a particular RNA guided DNA binding protein family. In order to identify sequences which are not well conserved within the context of this disclosure an alignment was obtained from PFAM or otherwise created from a collection of sequences resulting from a database search of Cas9 homologs. This alignment was computationally conditioned and the conservation was calculated as the per position relative entropy of amino acid frequencies. The sequences are then removed from the RNA guided DNA binding protein to produce a mutant.

According to certain aspects the present disclosure describes synthetic NM Cas9 deletion mutants that are smaller in size yet retain near wild type protein activity. The synthetic NM Cas9 deletion mutants can be used to bind to DNA as a co localization complex with guide RNA in a cell and create a double stranded break a single stranded break or to locate an effector group near target DNA of interest to perform a desired function.

According to one aspect the cell is a prokaryotic cell or a eukaryotic cell. According to one aspect the cell is a bacterial cell a yeast cell a plant cell or an animal cell. According to one aspect the cell is a mammalian cell.

According to one aspect the RNA is between about 10 to about 500 nucleotides. According to one aspect the RNA is between about 20 to about 100 nucleotides.

According to one aspect the one or more RNAs is a guide RNA. According to one aspect the one or more RNAs is a crRNA. According to one aspect the one or more RNAs is a tracrRNA. According to one aspect the one or more RNAs is a tracrRNA crRNA fusion.

According to one aspect the target DNA is genomic DNA mitochondrial DNA viral DNA conjugatable element or exogenous DNA.

According to one aspect the RNA guided DNA binding protein is of a Type II CRISPR System that binds to the DNA and is guided by the one or more RNAs. According to one aspect the RNA guided DNA binding protein is a Cas9 protein that binds to the DNA and is guided by the one or more RNAs.

Further features and advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention will become more fully apparent in the following description of embodiments and drawings thereof and from the claims.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to mutant RNA guided DNA binding proteins of the Type II CRISPR system. Such mutants are created by removing sequences that are not well conserved or are otherwise highly divergent among species within a genus of RNA guided DNA binding proteins of the Type II CRISPR system. According to one aspect the sequences of species within a family of RNA guided DNA binding proteins are aligned and sequences of low conservation are determined. These sequences are then deleted from a particular RNA guided DNA binding protein. Exemplary RNA guided DNA binding proteins include Cas9 proteins present for example in Type II CRISPR systems. Such Cas9 proteins and Type II CRISPR systems are well documented in the art. See Makarova et al. 9 June 2011 pp. 467 477. The mutant DNA binding proteins described herein can be used to make double stranded cuts in target DNA single stranded cuts in target DNA or to bind to target DNA in a manner to locate an effector group near the target DNA such that that effector group can interact with the target DNA. Such effector groups include activators or repressors known to those of skill in the art.

Exemplary DNA binding proteins having nuclease activity function to nick or cut double stranded DNA. Such nuclease activity may result from the DNA binding protein having one or more polypeptide sequences exhibiting nuclease activity. Such exemplary DNA binding proteins may have two separate nuclease domains with each domain responsible for cutting or nicking a particular strand of the double stranded DNA. Exemplary polypeptide sequences having nuclease activity known to those of skill in the art include the McrA HNH nuclease related domain and the RuvC like nuclease domain. Accordingly exemplary DNA binding proteins are those that in nature contain one or more of the McrA HNH nuclease related domain and the RuvC like nuclease domain.

According to one aspect a DNA binding protein having two or more nuclease domains may be modified or altered to inactivate all but one of the nuclease domains. Such a modified or altered DNA binding protein is referred to as a DNA binding protein nickase to the extent that the DNA binding protein cuts or nicks only one strand of double stranded DNA. When guided by RNA to DNA the DNA binding protein nickase is referred to as an RNA guided DNA binding protein nickase.

An exemplary DNA binding protein is an RNA guided DNA binding protein of a Type II CRISPR System. An exemplary DNA binding protein is a Cas9 protein.

In Cas9 generates a blunt ended double stranded break 3 bp upstream of the protospacer adjacent motif PAM via a process mediated by two catalytic domains in the protein an HNH domain that cleaves the complementary strand of the DNA and a RuvC like domain that cleaves the non complementary strand. See Jinke et al. 337 816 821 2012 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Cas9 proteins are known to exist in many Type II CRISPR systems including the following as identified in the supplementary information to Makarova et al. Nature Reviews Microbiology Vol. 9 June 2011 pp. 467 477C7 YS 314 ATCC 13032 Kitasato ATCC 13032 Bielefeld R DSM 44385 ATCC 19977 IFM10152PR4RHA1B4 uid3657311B A6DSM 17836 uid43465DSM 43183 Bd1DJO10A DSM 20476EX H1NCTC 9434DSM 7271 JIP02 86ATCC BAA 835DSM 13941RS1 PCC6803Pei191 uncultured Termite group 1 bacterium phylotype Rs D17S85 ATCC 10987 GG UCC118 A909 NEM316 2603 GGS 124 MGCS10565 UCN34 uid46061 Challis subst CH1 NN2025 uid46353 M1 GAS MGAS5005 MGAS2096 MGAS9429 MGAS10270 MGAS6180 MGAS315 SSI 1 MGAS10750 NZ131 CNRZ1066 LMD 9 LMG 18311 A3 Loch Maree B Eklund 17B Ba4 657 F Langeland H10ATCC 29328 ATCC 33656 163K 53 DSM 12112 BTAi1 X14 BisB18 BisB5DS 1DFL 12Pal 5 FAPERJ Pal 5 JGI B510 uid46085ATCC 11170TPSY uid29975EF01 2 053442 alpha14 Z2491DSM 2638 269 97 81116 RM2100 DSM 9187 T6c ATCC 700345 Paris 130Z U112 FSC 198 WY96 3418 and ATCC 35405. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure are directed to a mutant of a Cas9 protein present in a Type II CRISPR system such as any one of the species identified above. An exemplary Cas9 protein is that found in such as 053442 alpha14 Z2491.

Cells according to the present disclosure include any cell into which foreign nucleic acids can be introduced and expressed as described herein. It is to be understood that the basic concepts of the present disclosure described herein are not limited by cell type. Cells according to the present disclosure include eukaryotic cells prokaryotic cells animal cells plant cells fungal cells archael cells eubacterial cells and the like. Cells include eukaryotic cells such as yeast cells plant cells and animal cells. Particular cells include mammalian cells. Particular cells include stem cells such as pluripotent stem cells such as human induced pluripotent stem cells.

Target nucleic acids include any nucleic acid sequence to which a mutant RNA guided DNA binding protein nuclease can be useful to nick or cut. Target nucleic acids include genes. For purposes of the present disclosure DNA such as double stranded DNA can include the target nucleic acid and a co localization complex can bind to or otherwise co localize with the DNA at or adjacent or near the target nucleic acid and in a manner in which the co localization complex may have a desired effect on the target nucleic acid. Such target nucleic acids can include endogenous or naturally occurring nucleic acids and exogenous or foreign nucleic acids. One of skill based on the present disclosure will readily be able to identify or design guide RNAs and mutant Cas9 proteins which co localize to a DNA including a target nucleic acid. DNA includes genomic DNA mitochondrial DNA viral DNA a conjugatable element or exogenous DNA.

Foreign nucleic acids i.e. those which are not part of a cell s natural nucleic acid composition may be introduced into a cell using any method known to those skilled in the art for such introduction. Such methods include transfection transduction viral transduction microinjection lipofection nucleofection nanoparticle bombardment transformation conjugation and the like. One of skill in the art will readily understand and adapt such methods using readily identifiable literature sources.

According to one aspect the genetic material required to encode a Cas9 protein is reduced by deleting portions of the Cas9 protein which are not well conserved or otherwise diverge within species within a family of Cas9. By reducing the size of the nucleic acid required to encode a functioning Cas9 additional nucleic acids can be included with a vector designed to deliver the Cas9 such as nucleic acids encoding guide RNA or regulatory elements or effector domains. If one uses the smallest characterized Cas9 family member 4 500 kilobases of DNA will be required to encode for the necessary genetic elements Cas9 protein and gRNA in order to properly localize Cas9 to the desired genomic locus. At 4 500 basepairs Cas9 is near the size limit for packaging within AAV based viral vector which is a regulatory approved viral vector in Europe. Further some of the first transcriptional and epigenetic effector domains to be fused to programmable DNA binding proteins are greater than 2 000 basepairs and thus far out of the packaging limit for AAV vectors and approaching the limit of lentiviral packaging systems 8 000 basepairs once fused to Cas9.

The following examples are set forth as being representative of the present disclosure. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the present disclosure as these and other equivalent embodiments will be apparent in view of the present disclosure figures and accompanying claims.

To overcome the issues of large gene size encoding Cas9 a targeted deletion is carried out of various regions within one of the smallest characterized Cas9 family member NM Cas9 Cas9 . NM Cas9 is 3 249 bp in size. Requirements for targeting to the genome and the residues involved in nuclease activity are determined. To generate versions of NM Cas9 which are smaller in size an alignment of Cas9 proteins was generated and contiguous stretches of low conservation were identified for deletion. Several regions of interest were identified and selectively removed from NM Cas9 which was then assessed for function by using a Cas9 repressor assay. In the assay a variant of NM Cas9 was used that lacks nuclease activity but is able to be targeted to the 5 region of a reporter gene. If NM Cas9 is able to bind to the reporter gene it will repress transcription and in the case of a fluorescent reporter the cells will appear non fluorescent.

Cas9 alignment and deletion prediction Full length sequences of Cas9 homologs were obtained either from the PFAM database or from a database search such as jackHMMER R. D. Finn J. Clements S. R. Eddy Nucleic Acids Research 2011 Web Server Issue 39 W29 W37 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . In case the collection of sequences is not aligned an alignment is created using an alignment algorithm such as CLUSTALW Sievers F Wilm A Dineen D G Gibson T J Karplus K Li W Lopez R McWilliam H Remmert M Soding J Thompson J D Higgins D G 2011 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety or equivalent. The alignment was computationally cut to the positions of the sequence of interest and conditioned to diminish alignment bias e.g. sequences with a greater than 95 pairwise identity were removed . Conservation is calculated as the entropy or relative entropy of amino acid frequencies per position taking into account the amount of amino acids and gaps at that position. Deletions are targeted towards regions of low conservation. In iterations with experimental verification the deletions are expanded or shifted.

Deletion construction and characterization Bacterial plasmids expressing nuclease null NM Cas9 were previously generated as described in Esvelt K. M. Mali P. Braff J. L. Moosburner M. Yaung S. J. and Church G. M. 2013 10 1116 1121 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. To create targeted deletions within NM Cas9 Gibson assembly was employed as described in Gibson D. G. Young L. Chuang R. Y. Venter J. C. Hutchison C. A. 3rd and Smith H. O. 2009 6 343 345 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Primers containing overlapping complementarily and which are designed to remove targeted regions within NM Cas9 along with inserting a SGGGS linker were purchased and used in PCR reactions. PCR fragments were gel purified assembled in vitro using Gibson assembly and transformed into . Clones were sequence verified and tested using a modified form of previously generated NM Cas9 reporter plasmids See 2013 10 1116 1121 in which a single plasmid instead of two contains the NM Cas9 spacer targeted protospacer and YFP reporter for NM Cas9 activity. Briefly in this assay cells are co transformed with synthetic NM Cas9 variants and the reporter plasmid. The doubly transformed cells are then grown up at 37 C. and the amount of YFP fluorescence is measured using a fluorescence plate reader and compared to cells that are transformed with a control plasmid with wild type nuclease null NM Cas9 and the reporter plasmid.

The below sequences are for the two largest NM Cas9 single deletion mutants generated and the YFP reporter plasmid. The sequence of the SGGGS linker which replaces the deleted regions within NM cas9 is shown in CAPS.

According to the methods described herein several deletions within NM Cas9 have been identified the largest NM Cas9 255 449 removes 595 basepairs and shows only a 16 decrease in activity as measured by the reporter assay See . According to certain aspects mutant Cas9 proteins are provided which have 1000 fewer base pairs compared to the wild type Cas9 such as NM Cas9 and retain near wild type levels of activity.

Along with targeting regions of low sequence conservation in the case where a nickase or nuclease null allele of Cas9 is desired one can target the Cas9 nuclease domains along with their surrounding nucleotides for deletion. Utilizing such an approach a functional NM Cas9 allele lacking the HNH motif and surrounding nucleotides NM Cas9 567 654 was made which retained near wild type ability to bind DNA as determined by the YFP reporter assay.

Aside from taking a targeted approach to generating Cas9 deletions aspects of the present disclosure include a high throughput approach for random deletion creation and screening of functional mutants. According to an exemplary method plasmid DNA containing the desired Cas9 allele can be sheared using a promiscuous nuclease sonication repeatedly pipetting the sample or other chemical enzymatic or environmental means. Once fragmented the plasmid DNA can be treated with exonucleases to remove nucleotides from the Cas9 gene. After exonuclease treatment fragmented ends are made blunt ended with enzymes such as Mung Bean nuclease or Klenow polymerase and ligated together to regenerate a Cas9 plasmid containing a random deletion. To insert an exogenous domain such as a linker or effector motif within the deleted portion of Cas9 such domains can be ligated to the blunt ended fragmented DNA and subsequent circularization of the plasmid will produce a Cas9 coding sequence where the exogenous domain has been inserted within the deleted portion of Cas9. The library of circularized molecules will then be transformed into and plasmid DNA will be extracted. At this point the library can be transformed into cells containing a reporter assay for Cas9 activity and members of the library that maintain functional activity can be identified. Alternatively to reduce the size of the library to be screened the coding sequence for Cas9 from the newly generated library can be isolated via digestion or PCR and the fragments can be size selected to be shorter than the initial wild type Cas9 gene. These smaller members can then be ligated back into the starting vector and transformed into cells containing the reporter of Cas9 activity.

Aside from plasmid shearing a library of oligonucleotides can be generated that have 3 homology to the Cas9 gene but contain 5 homology to each other where the 3 end of each oligonucleotide binds to a different stretch of around 30 basepairs within Cas9. These oligonucleotides cover both the sense and anti sense strands of the Cas9 coding sequence. PCR can then be performed with these oligonucleotides to generate a series of Cas9 fragments with each product from a given sense PCR reaction having complementarity to all other anti sense PCR products and vice versa. These fragments can then be annealed together using methods such as Gibson assembly or overlap extension PCR followed by ligation into a vector backbone and transformed into cells generating a library of Cas9 variants with random stretches of the Cas9 gene removed. For longer linkers or to insert an effector domain within the deleted regions the oligonucleotides on their 5 ends should contain complementarity towards the longer linker or effector domain and this domain should then be included in the Gibson assembly reaction or during overlap extension PCR. Once a library has been generated functional variants can be identified using a reporter assay such as the YFP reporter system described herein.

