---

title: System and method for dynamic facial features for speaker recognition
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable storage media for performing speaker verification. A system configured to practice the method receives a request to verify a speaker, generates a text challenge that is unique to the request, and, in response to the request, prompts the speaker to utter the text challenge. Then the system records a dynamic image feature of the speaker as the speaker utters the text challenge, and performs speaker verification based on the dynamic image feature and the text challenge. Recording the dynamic image feature of the speaker can include recording video of the speaker while speaking the text challenge. The dynamic feature can include a movement pattern of head, lips, mouth, eyes, and/or eyebrows of the speaker. The dynamic image feature can relate to phonetic content of the speaker speaking the challenge, speech prosody, and the speaker's facial expression responding to content of the challenge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218815&OS=09218815&RS=09218815
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09218815
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141124
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 101 704 filed May 5 2011 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to speaker verification or recognition and more specifically to confirming an identity of a particular speaker based on dynamic facial features of a user while the user is speaking.

Speaker verification or recognition is the process of identifying a particular speaker and not necessarily what that speaker is saying. Speaker verification can provide benefits in many applications contexts and devices. For example a smartphone can incorporate speaker verification to ensure that only authorized users can access local and or network resources through the smartphone. Speaker verification can be beneficial for users that have difficulty using traditional computing input devices such as a keyboard or mouse or for users that prefer using speaker verification systems. However existing speaker verification approaches rely on acoustic characteristics of the voice of a speaker. Each speaker s voice has unique characteristics which can provide a certain level of biometric identification Such as pitch tone and amplitude. However a noisy background a bad connection or other difficult speaking conditions for example can make detection of these unique characteristics difficult. These shortcomings can lead to user frustration if the system is unable to verify the identity of a known user. These shortcomings can also lead to security risks if the system misrecognizes the identity of a user.

Further attackers can deceive many existing speaker verification systems with relative ease. For example an attacker can pose as a particular speaker by playing back a sufficiently high quality voice recording of that speaker. In the face of these difficulties whether due to unintentional factors or due to intentional human fraud the robustness of speaker verification systems can degrade. Existing speaker verification approaches provide a useful authentication technology but lack a described level of robustness.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

Disclosed are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for performing speaker verification. A system configured to practice the method receives a request to verify a speaker and generates a text challenge that is unique to the request. In response to the request the system prompts the speaker to utter the text challenge and records a dynamic image feature of the speaker as the user utters the text challenge. The system can generate the text challenge to elicit one or more highly distinctive behaviors of the speaker. The dynamic image feature can include a pattern of movement of any body part such as head lips mouth eyes and eyebrows. The pattern of movement can be based on any observable body part such as a shoulder shrug hand gesture nod wink twitch and so forth. The dynamic image feature can relate to phonetic content of the speaker speaking the text challenge speech prosody and or a facial expression of the speaker in response to content of the text challenge. Then the system can perform speaker verification of the user based on the dynamic image feature and the text challenge. For example the system can perform speaker verification based on a database of speaker behaviors a speaker profile and or a location of the speaker.

Also disclosed herein are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for identifying a user. A system configured to practice this method prompts the user to utter a unique text challenge and records audio and video of the user while the user utters the unique text challenge. If the unique text challenge is unpredictable or unguessable then the system can provide enhanced security and certainty that the user is not an imposter. Then the system performs a comparison of the audio and the video to a database of observable behavior based on the unique text challenge and identifies the user based on the comparison. The system can further ensure that the audio and the video match. For example the system can identify features of the user in the video analyze the features and temporally align the features to the audio based on the unique text challenge. The features can include a degree of a mouth opening symmetry of the mouth opening lip rounding lip spreading visible tongue position head movement eyebrow movement eye shape and or a facial expression of the user in response to the unique text challenge.

Further disclosed herein are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for serving requests for speaker verification as a service. A system configured to practice this method receives from a user verification device a request to confirm a user identity and retrieves a user profile associated with the user identity. Then the system generates a unique text challenge based on the user profile and instructs the user verification device to prompt the user to utter the unique text challenge. The system receives from the user verification device an audio recording and a video recording of the user uttering the unique text challenge and performs an analysis of the audio recording and the video recording based on the user profile. Then the system can send a confirmation to the user verification device if the analysis meets a verification threshold. In one variation the system also receives from the user verification device an indication of desired user verification certainty and sets the verification threshold based on the desired user verification certainty. The user verification device can use the confirmation as part of a multi factor authentication of the user.

The user profile can be generated as part of a user enrollment process. For example the user can voluntarily and actively enroll in the speaker verification system by providing speech samples so that the system can generate the user profile and determine which types of text challenges elicit which types of visual or observable features while the user speaks the text challenge. Using the user profile the system can generate unique text challenges designed to elicit a distinctive identifiable behavior in the user as the user utters the unique text challenge.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The present disclosure addresses the need in the art for more effective speaker verification or identification. A brief introductory description of a basic general purpose system or computing device in which can be employed to practice the concepts is disclosed herein followed by a discussion of a natural spoken language dialog system. A more detailed description of speaker verification and the various approaches will then follow. The disclosure now turns to .

With reference to an exemplary system includes a general purpose computing device including a processing unit CPU or processor and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM to the processor . The system can include a cache of high speed memory connected directly with in close proximity to or integrated as part of the processor . The system copies data from the memory and or the storage device to the cache for quick access by the processor . In this way the cache provides a performance boost that avoids processor delays while waiting for data. These and other modules can control or be configured to control the processor to perform various actions. Other system memory may be available for use as well. The memory can include multiple different types of memory with different performance characteristics. It can be appreciated that the disclosure may operate on a computing device with more than one processor or on a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability. The processor can include any general purpose processor and a hardware module or software module such as module module and module stored in storage device configured to control the processor as well as a special purpose processor where software instructions are incorporated into the actual processor design. The processor may essentially be a completely self contained computing system containing multiple cores or processors a bus memory controller cache etc. A multi core processor may be symmetric or asymmetric.

The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in ROM or the like may provide the basic routine that helps to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up. The computing device further includes storage devices such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive or the like. The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device is connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The drives and the associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function includes the software component stored in a non transitory computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out the function. The basic components are known to those of skill in the art and appropriate variations are contemplated depending on the type of device such as whether the device is a small handheld computing device a desktop computer or a computer server.

Although the exemplary embodiment described herein employs the hard disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. Non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device represents any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface generally governs and manages the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

For clarity of explanation the illustrative system embodiment is presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks labeled as a processor or processor . The functions these blocks represent may be provided through the use of either shared or dedicated hardware including but not limited to hardware capable of executing software and hardware such as a processor that is purpose built to operate as an equivalent to software executing on a general purpose processor. For example the functions of one or more processors presented in may be provided by a single shared processor or multiple processors. Use of the term processor should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software. Illustrative embodiments may include microprocessor and or digital signal processor DSP hardware read only memory ROM for storing software performing the operations discussed below and random access memory RAM for storing results. Very large scale integration VLSI hardware embodiments as well as custom VLSI circuitry in combination with a general purpose DSP circuit may also be provided.

The logical operations of the various embodiments are implemented as 1 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a general use computer 2 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a specific use programmable circuit and or 3 interconnected machine modules or program engines within the programmable circuits. The system shown in can practice all or part of the recited methods can be a part of the recited systems and or can operate according to instructions in the recited non transitory computer readable storage media. Such logical operations can be implemented as modules configured to control the processor to perform particular functions according to the programming of the module. For example illustrates three modules Mod Mod and Mod which are modules configured to control the processor . These modules may be stored on the storage device and loaded into RAM or memory at runtime or may be stored as would be known in the art in other computer readable memory locations.

Having disclosed some components of a computing system the disclosure now turns to which illustrates a functional block diagram of an exemplary natural language spoken dialog system. Spoken dialog systems aim to identify intents of humans expressed in natural language and take actions accordingly to satisfy the human requests. Natural language spoken dialog system can include an automatic speech recognition ASR module a spoken language understanding SLU module a dialog management DM module a spoken language generation SLG module and synthesizing module . The synthesizing module can be any type of speech output module. For example it can be a module wherein one prerecorded speech segment is selected and played to a user. Thus the synthesizing module can represent any type of artificial speech output. The present disclosure can be incorporated as part of the ASR module and can be included as part of other components of the dialog system as well.

The ASR module analyzes speech input and provides a textual transcription of the speech input as output. SLU module can receive the transcribed input and can use a natural language understanding model to analyze the group of words that are included in the transcribed input to derive a meaning from the input. The role of the DM module is to interact in a natural way and help the user to achieve the task that the system is designed to support. The DM module receives the meaning of the speech input from the SLU module and determines an action such as for example providing a response based on the input. The SLG module generates a transcription of one or more words in response to the action provided by the DM . The synthesizing module receives the transcription as input and provides generated audible speech as output based on the transcribed speech.

Thus the modules of system recognize speech input such as speech utterances transcribe the speech input identify or understand the meaning of the transcribed speech determine an appropriate response to the speech input generate text of the appropriate response and from that text generate audible speech from system which the user then hears. In this manner the user can carry on a natural language dialog with system . Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand the programming languages for generating and training ASR module or any of the other modules in the spoken dialog system. Further the modules of system can operate independent of a full dialog system. For example a computing device such as a smartphone or any processing device having a phone capability can include an ASR module wherein a user says call mom and the smartphone acts on the instruction without a spoken dialog. A module for performing speaker verification can join the system at any point or at multiple points in the cycle or can be integrated with any of the modules shown in .

Having disclosed some components of a computing system and a natural language spoken dialog system the disclosure returns now to a discussion of speaker verification. The speaker verification approach disclosed herein provides several benefits. For example head movements and facial expressions are a noisy data source meaning that users usually exhibit at least some of these behaviors but it is difficult to correlate these behaviors precisely with what is being spoken. As another example speaker recognition or verification systems that rely exclusively on an acoustic speech signal degrade quickly in noisy environments.

Speaker verification can be based on audio and or on an image of a user. However a dynamic image or video data can provide more information upon which to identify an individual particularly if the individual is speaking. Patterns of movement vary widely from speaker to speaker such as movement acceleration position and orientation of the head shoulders ears nose cheeks lips mouth eyes eyebrows and other facial features. These movements accelerations positions and orientations can all serve as biometric measures to identify a particular user. These biometric measures can add more dimensions for robustly recognizing an identity or verifying a speaker. A non facial response can also be encoded as part of a user s identity for recognition of that user. This disclosure describes a speaker verification or speaker recognition system in which the speaker reads aloud an unpredictable passage of text. The system captures analyzes and or temporally aligns captured features of the speaker s dynamic image or video data to the speaker s recorded speech. The dynamic image features can relate to the phonetic content of speech speech prosody and or facial expressions in response to the content of the passage. The system can control or generate passages of text that are designed or intended to elicit highly distinctive behavior on an individual basis. Then the system can exploit the highly distinctive behavior to verify or recognize a user identity. This approach can be used for speaker verification alone as part of another authentication approach and or in conjunction with other compatible user identification approaches such as password verification or other biometric authentication schemes.

An exemplary speaker verification or speaker recognition system prompts a speaker to read aloud an unpredictable passage of text presented and records or receives features of the speaker s dynamic image analyzes those features and temporally aligns the features to the speaker s corresponding speech. The system can achieve high recognition accuracy because the system already knows the intended spoken message. Further the system can achieve high accuracy alignment of the speech and features. The dynamic image features can include features that relate to the phonetic content of speech such as degree and symmetry of mouth opening lip rounding or spreading or visible tongue position. The dynamic image features can also include features that relate to speech prosody such as head or eyebrow movements and changes in eye shape that tend to occur during emphasized words or at the ends of phrases. The system can analyze facial expressions of the speaker in response to the content. Facial expressions provide yet another dynamic pattern to distinguish among or identify individuals. The system can control or select which passage the user speaks. In this way the system has the flexibility to select material that elicits the most highly distinctive behavior or material that is expected to elicit highly distinctive behavior for each individual user. Incorporation of dynamic image features improves system robustness especially in noisy environments where the acoustic speech signal quality may be degraded or in dark environments where still images are low quality.

In some example implementations the system does not rely explicitly on representations of a person s facial features. For example the system can analyze any image feature set represented as pixel based gradients across an image that may not even correlate to physical objects much less faces. However patterns of these gradients aggregated over space regions of the image and time multiple frames from the video can provide adequate speaker representations.

The system disclosed herein can elicit and record a range of observable behaviors that provides multiple features usable for speaker verification or recognition. The system can temporally correlate or align speech output and multi dimensional head and facial movements and expressions. The combination of multi dimensional movements the dynamic aspect of the user behavior elicited and the unpredictability of the text passage greatly reduces the chances of an attacker defeating the system through technological means.

The disclosure turns now to a discussion of several exemplary architectures for implementing speaker verification. illustrates a first exemplary architecture for performing speaker verification. In this architecture a speaker verification system intends to verify the identity of a speaker such as through an input device including a keyboard mouse touch screen voice command processor and so forth. The speaker verification system can optionally retrieve some indication of an asserted identity of the speaker and retrieve a corresponding user profile . Based on the user profile the speaker verification system can retrieve a text passage from a text generator and prompt the speaker via an output device to utter the text passage.

The text generator can determine which words to include in the text passage a length of the text passage and other characteristics of the text passage based on a desired level of security or certainty of the speaker verification. For example in a high security situation the text generator can generate a longer text passage and or include multiple portions intended to elicit or trigger a respective particular facial movement expression or other observable behavior as the user speaks the text passage whereas the text generator can generate a simpler or shorter text passage in lower security situations. The text generator can optionally generate text in languages other than English. For example a user profile can indicate languages spoken by a particular user. Based on that user profile the text generator can choose a language in which to generate the text passage. In a higher security situation the text generator can choose a language that is more uncommon or that elicits a more identifiable facial movement expression or other observable behaviors.

The speaker verification system records the speaker while the speaker utters the text passage such as with a microphone and or a video camera . The speaker verification system can compare features of the speaker to a database of dynamic image features . The system can determine the identity of the speaker based on a similarity threshold between a combination of detected features of the speaker and a combination of known or expected features associated with a particular identity. The system can raise or lower the similarity threshold in different situations. The speaker verification system can then use the determined identity of the speaker optionally with results of other aspects of a multi factor authentication scheme such as an analysis of acoustic characteristics of the speaker s voice or a combination of a username and password to provide access to services files information and or other additional resources.

The client device determines a need for verifying the identity of the speaker . The client device communicates that need to the speaker verification service via the network . The client device optionally retrieves information from a user profile and sends that information to the speaker verification service . The speaker verification service retrieves or generates a text challenge optionally based on the user profile information via a text generator designed to elicit highly distinctive behavior from the speaker as the speaker speaks the text challenge. The speaker verification service then transmits the text challenge to the client device via the network . The client device prompts the speaker via an output device such as a visual prompt on a display or an audible output to say the text challenge. The client device captures information about the speaker as the speaker says the text challenge such as a series of still images via a camera or video data via a camera . The client device can capture other inputs via other input devices such as a microphone accelerometer or other sensor. The client device can optionally align the various inputs and transmit the inputs to the speaker verification service . For example the client device can align audio and video recordings such that they are temporally synchronized. Further inasmuch as the system knows what the spoken text is supposed to be based on the text challenge the system can more easily align the audio with the video. If the client device does not align the inputs then the speaker verification service can align the inputs. The speaker verification service can then compare the inputs i.e. the video and audio of the speaker saying the text challenge to a database of dynamic image features . The speaker verification service can select specific dynamic image features from the database based on user profile information. If the speaker verification service determines that the inputs are a sufficiently close match to the dynamic image features based on a similarity threshold then the speaker verification service confirms the identity to the client device through the network . The speaker verification service can optionally provide a certainty score of the identification accuracy to the client device .

In one variation the client device computes image and audio features based on a local database of dynamic image features and transmits that information via the network to the speaker verification service . However the arrangement shown in can provide additional security over this variation as well as reduced computing power and or storage requirements on the client device . In yet another variation the client device transmits the information to an entirely separate third party such as a specialized processor optimized for such calculations which then compares the inputs to the database of dynamic image features and in turn transmits results to the speaker verification service .

The certainty score of the identification accuracy can be based on a number of different sources. For example the certainty score can be based on a matching threshold to the dynamic image features. Very close matches provide a higher certainty score and less close matches provide lower certainty scores. Another example is image or video quality. If the camera is low resolution captures at 8 bit color depth or only captures 12 frames per second the resulting certainty score may be lower than the score from a high definition camera that captures at 60 frames per second or 24 bit color depth. Similarly the image quality of the captured video can affect the certainty score. If the captured video is grainy dimly lit and low contrast the resulting certainty score can be lower than the score of video captured in a bright area with sharp details.

Once the client device receives the confirmed identity the client device can allow the speaker to access additional resources or decide whether to impose additional authentication requirements on the speaker . For example if the certainty score from the speaker verification service indicates a 90 or greater certainty then the client device can forego any additional authentication mechanisms. If the speaker verification service indicates a certainty 70 up to 90 certainty then the client device can require the user to enter a PIN as an additional authentication or identification mechanism. If the speaker verification service indicates less than a 70 certainty then the client device can require the user to enter a username and a password. In this way the speaker verification service can verify the speaker identity with greater certainty and or accuracy.

Having disclosed some basic system components and concepts the disclosure now turns to the exemplary method embodiments shown in . For the sake of clarity each of the methods is discussed in terms of an exemplary system as shown in configured to practice the respective method. The steps outlined herein in each of the methods are exemplary and can be implemented in any combination thereof including combinations that exclude add or modify one or more steps.

The user profile can be generated as part of a user enrollment process. For example the user can voluntarily and actively enroll in the speaker verification system by providing speech samples so that the system can generate the user profile and determine which types of text challenges elicit which types of visual or observable features while the user speaks the text challenge. Alternatively the system can monitor user speech mannerisms video conversations and or other inputs that the user does not primarily intend as part of an enrollment process. The system can use this passively gathered information to create modify or augment a user profile. Using the user profile the system can generate unique text challenges designed to elicit a distinctive identifiable behavior in the user as the user utters the unique text challenge.

One user can be associated with multiple user profiles. For example a bilingual user can have two different user profiles one for each language. If the text challenge is in the first language then that user s dynamic image features while uttering the text challenge may be different than when the user utters a text challenge in the second language. Similarly a user s behaviors mannerisms and other observable behavior may differ based on location. For example a user may be more relaxed at home or at the park than at his or her workplace. The system can account for these differences with separate user profiles or with a location based profile modifier.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non transitory computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures objects and the functions inherent in the design of special purpose processors etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. For example the principles herein can be applied to speaker verification as part of a computing device login in addition to or in conjunction with a traditional login. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

