---

title: Cloud-based management platform for heterogeneous wireless devices
abstract: A method of managing heterogeneous wireless devices in three or more different types of networks is disclosed. Each type of network uses a different type of radio access technology. The method includes receiving measurement data from a plurality of heterogeneous wireless devices via a control interface, wherein a heterogeneous wireless device provides connections to client devices via one or more of the three or more radio access technologies. The method includes searching, using a processor, for optimized adjustments to one or more parameters associated with one or more of the plurality of heterogeneous wireless devices based at least in part on a set of network optimization goals and the measurement data received from the plurality of heterogeneous wireless devices. The method includes transmitting at least some of the optimized adjustments of the one or more parameters to the one or more of the plurality of heterogeneous wireless devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661515&OS=09661515&RS=09661515
owner: PLUME DESIGN, INC.
number: 09661515
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140424
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 816 011 entitled CLOUD BASED MANAGEMENT PLATFORM FOR HETEROGENEOUS WIRELESS DEVICES filed Apr. 25 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 830 990 entitled OPEN LAYERED ARCHITECTURE FOR COGNITIVE SOFTWARE DEFINED WI FI NETWORKS filed Jun. 4 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Heterogeneous wireless networks are not without various problems they are difficult to manage control monitor secure and optimize. For example the spectrum allocated to the different types of wireless networks remain scarce thus limiting the ability of the networks to accommodate the growing demand for mobile data driven by mobile devices including smartphones and the like. In addition wireless connectivity can be fragmented and the roaming between networks is at best ad hoc. In the unlicensed spectral bands Wi Fi access points APs are deployed in an ad hoc manner by end users enterprises and hot spot operators all sharing the Wi Fi spectrum using a crude channel sharing mechanism carrier sense multiple access that was not designed for the current density of unlicensed wireless devices. Wi Fi APs are being embedded into other communication devices such as cable modems and DSL routers where configuration and management become more challenging due to constrained interfaces and access. The licensed spectral band is also undergoing a paradigm shift with the emergence of Heterogeneous Networks HetNets wherein macrocells with large coverage areas are complemented by small cells micro pico and femtocells some of which have integrated Wi Fi the latter being deployed to cover small areas with poor coverage and or high capacity demands. Currently stand alone Wi Fi APs are configured and managed by their end users while embedded and hotspot APs are typically pre configured. Small cells are currently being trialed by operators. The mechanism for how they will be configured and managed when deployed into the field has not yet been fully determined but due to cost and manpower constraints is likely to differ from the individual fine tuning used today for configuration and management of macrocells. In addition different wireless devices do not possess an efficient and reliable handoff mechanism to switch from one type of network to another even though such a mechanism can improve the performance of the particular wireless device as well as the overall network performance.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Today s wireless networks are ubiquitous and highly heterogeneous. A heterogeneous wireless network HWN is a wireless network that includes devices using different underlying radio access technology. illustrates one example of a heterogeneous wireless network . Heterogeneous wireless network includes Wi Fi networks . A Wi Fi network is a wireless local area network WLAN that is based on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards.

Heterogeneous wireless network includes Internet Protocol IP based cellular networks such as cellular networks based on the fourth generation 4G Long Term Evolution LTE mobile telecommunications technology. LTE networks are increasingly migrating from flat to hierarchical architectures in order to address capacity and coverage issues. Thus a 4G LTE network may include macrocells and various levels of small cells e.g. femtocells picocells and microcells with lower power cellular base stations.

Heterogeneous wireless network also includes millimeter wave networks . Millimeter waves occupy the frequency spectrum from 30 GHz to 300 GHz. They are found in the spectrum between microwaves 1 GHz to 30 GHz and infrared IR waves which is sometimes known as the extremely high frequency EHF band. The wavelength for millimeter waves is in the 1 mm to 10 mm range. Today the spectrum from DC through microwave 6 GHz is close to being fully deployed. Millimeter waves thus partially alleviate the problem by providing more room for expansion. However millimeter waves typically have shorter transmission ranges e.g. a range of 10 meters unless multiple antenna technology is used to steer energy in a particular direction which increases range.

Heterogeneous wireless network also includes cognitive radio networks . Cognitive radio is a generic term used to describe a radio that is aware of the environment around it and can adapt its transmissions according to the interference it sees. In their simplest embodiments cognitive radios can recognize the available systems around them and adjust their frequencies waveforms and protocols to access those systems efficiently. Conceptually cognitive radios include multiple domains of knowledge model based reasoning and negotiation. The knowledge and reasoning can include all aspects of any radio etiquette such as RF bands air interfaces protocols and spatial as well as temporal patterns that moderate the use of the radio spectrum. An important feature that differentiates cognitive radios from normal radios is their agility along the following dimensions spectrum agility technology agility and protocol agility. Spectrum agility or frequency agility refers to the strategies for discovery of available spectrum as well as opportunistic transmission in the identified spectrum. Its operation requires the design of effective algorithms and protocols for appropriate selection of transmission frequencies coordination and cooperation. Technology agility refers to the operation of a single radio device across various access technologies. Such seamless interoperability can be enabled by multifunction radio technologies realized as a system on chip SoC that can operate for example using disparate technologies such as Wi Fi Bluetooth FM and GPS transceivers. Protocol agility refers to constituting a dynamically reconfigurable protocol stack on radio devices so that they can proactively and reactively adapt their protocols depending on the devices they interact with. The vision is that cognitive radios equipped with such agility would be a first step towards enabling radios that follow an etiquette in a society of radios. Such cognitive behavior could extend to networks of radios so that they mimic human behavior in civilized society.

Cognitive radio networks extend the software defined radio SDR framework to the development of dynamic spectrum access DSA algorithms that exploit temporal and spatial variability in the spectrum. This is done via a initial cooperative neighbor discovery and association b spectrum quality estimation and opportunity identification and c radio bearer management. These in turn imply a framework that senses neighborhood conditions to identify spectrum opportunities for communication by building an awareness of spectrum policy local network policy and the capability of local nodes including non cooperative or legacy nodes . The fundamental issues which need to be addressed include understanding the information theoretic limits of such networks constructing propagation models for such net works devising efficient algorithms for spectrum sensing as well as fostering mechanisms for spectrum coexistence.

Heterogeneous wireless networks are not without various problems they are difficult to manage control monitor secure and optimize. For example the spectrum allocated to the different types of wireless networks remain scarce thus limiting the ability of the networks to accommodate the growing demand for mobile data driven by mobile devices including smartphones and the like. In addition wireless connectivity can be fragmented and the roaming between networks is at best ad hoc. In the unlicensed spectral bands Wi Fi access points APs are deployed in an ad hoc manner by end users enterprises and hot spot operators all sharing the Wi Fi spectrum using a crude channel sharing mechanism carrier sense multiple access that was not designed for the current density of unlicensed wireless devices. Wi Fi APs are being embedded into other communication devices such as cable modems and DSL routers where configuration and management become more challenging due to constrained interfaces and access. The licensed spectral band is also undergoing a paradigm shift with the emergence of Heterogeneous Networks HetNets wherein macrocells with large coverage areas are complemented by small cells micro pico and femtocells some of which have integrated Wi Fi the latter being deployed to cover small areas with poor coverage and or high capacity demands. Currently stand alone Wi Fi APs are configured and managed by their end users while embedded and hotspot APs are typically pre configured. Small cells are currently being trialed by operators. The mechanism for how they will be configured and managed when deployed into the field has not yet been fully determined but due to cost and manpower constraints is likely to differ from the individual fine tuning used today for configuration and management of macrocells. In addition different wireless devices do not possess an efficient and reliable handoff mechanism to switch from one type of network to another even though such a mechanism can improve the performance of the particular wireless device as well as the overall network performance.

Cloud management system can also support network initiated seamless roaming between devices in the same networks e.g. based on the handover protocol in cellular or via a global SSID for Wi Fi APs as well as network initiated handoff between heterogeneous networks e.g. from LTE to Wi Fi or vice versa based on information available in the cloud about network conditions and traffic loads. A monitoring and analytics dashboard as part of a network operations center or control console can also be provided to manage and track network status of all wireless devices under cloud management. Additional software and services may also be included in cloud management system including application delivery optimization traffic shaping and other application layer services.

With continued reference to cloud management system includes a cloud management master control plane that provides management of or provides communication between a plurality of software defined networking SDN modules including a Wi Fi SDN module a HetNet SDN module a WiGig millimeter wave SDN module and a cognitive radio SDN module . Each of the SDN modules provides configuration monitoring analytics security optimization and radio resource management of its corresponding type of wireless network. For example Wi Fi SDN module provides configuration monitoring analytics security optimization and radio resource management of Wi Fi networks . Because each of the SDN modules collects information from its networks the collected information can be used by cloud management master control plane to globally manage the entire heterogeneous wireless network . For example the collected information can be used for cloud based radio resource management including channel allocation power control resource allocation energy optimization QoS Quality of Services optimization traffic shaping and the like for the entire heterogeneous wireless network . In another example the collected information may be used by a session handoff module for providing network initiated handoffs between heterogeneous networks e.g. from LTE to cognitive radio or vice versa which takes into consideration the overall network performance and other factors such as cost energy consumption and user preferences.

With continued reference to a software and services layer is layered on top of cloud management master control plane . The software and services provided may include video delivery data service home security enterprise service targeted advertising per session QoS optimization prioritization load balancing multi site support traffic shaping network resource allocation and the like.

The OBI serves as the interface between the cloud managed heterogeneous devices and cloud management system . The OBI includes transport protocols security protocols and application data protocols. It is a configuration and monitoring interface that enables device registration tracking and dynamic configuration. Robust security is required to ensure integrity of the individual devices as well as the overall network. The OBI can be implemented based on a standard API e.g. demonstrated via open source codes such as OpenWRT or via a software agent that resides on the devices. It may use existing management interfaces such as TR 069 SNMP Thrift HTTPS SSH CLI and command line tools to implement its functionality.

Radio resource management RRM is one of many types of optimization that can be provided by cloud management system . RRM manages the interference between wireless devices while optimizing overall network performance. RRM can be applied to any wireless device under control of the cloud management system however the nature of the RRM will depend on the wireless network e.g. Wi Fi LTE millimeter waves radio and cognitive radio to which the optimization is applied. As an illustrative example dynamic RRM based on Wi Fi networks is discussed next. However the cloud based RRM is not limited to Wi Fi networks only. Techniques for RRM which can be developed for any wireless network include power control for cellular networks and advanced sensing techniques coupled with dynamic spectrum management for cognitive radio networks.

Wi Fi networks are formed using one or more Wi Fi APs which can be deployed in homes apartments office buildings and as outdoor hotspots. illustrates a Wi Fi network in which a Wi Fi enabled client or may connect to any authorized AP or when the client is within the AP s coverage area. Once a client is within the coverage area of a particular AP the signal received by the client generally has a signal strength above the level required for connectivity to that AP. However clients close to the AP typically receive stronger AP signals than clients farther away from the AP and enjoy superior performance commensurate with the greater signal strength. APs are connected to the backbone Internet with traffic routed to and from their clients via standard Internet protocols. When a client is within the coverage areas of multiple APs the AP for the Wi Fi connection is typically selected based on static client preferences e.g. a preferred service set ID or SSID or the best signal strength. For example client in is within the coverage areas of two APs AP and AP but client may connect to AP based on its preferred SSID. Wi Fi APs operate in both the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz spectral bands with channel bandwidths of 20 MHz 40 MHz 80 MHz or 160 MHz depending on the particular Wi Fi standard used.

One way to reduce the interference experienced by clients in a Wi Fi network is via channel allocation. illustrates that clients connected to a particular AP may experience interference caused by other APs within the Wi Fi network. The wireless channels in a Wi Fi network are shared across all APs and their clients. When a given channel is used simultaneously by different APs with overlapping coverage areas the APs create interference to each other s clients as shown in . The magnitude of this interference depends on many factors including the propagation conditions the carrier frequency and the distance between the interfering AP and the client. The channel allocation mechanism in 802.11 attempts to avoid such interference by assigning different channels to APs within close proximity to each other this channel assignment may be done manually or based on local measurements. With this orthogonal frequency reuse the APs use different frequencies and inter AP interference is minimized. While this channel allocation works well for avoiding interference in low density AP deployments in dense deployments there are not enough channels for this method to be viable. For example only three non overlapping channels are available in the 2.4 GHz band making it difficult and at times impossible for APs with overlapping coverage areas operating in this band to each be assigned a unique channel.

To mitigate co channel interference between APs relatively close to each other that are operating on the same channel a second interference mitigation mechanism carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance CSMA CA is used. CSMA CA avoids simultaneous transmissions by two APs on the same channel by staggering the two APs transmissions in time. Prior to transmitting a frame an AP monitors the wireless channel for other Wi Fi transmissions with received power exceeding a given carrier sense threshold CST . The CST defines a carrier sense radius around each transmitting device any listening device within this radius will detect interference above the CST. The carrier sense radius as a function of azimuthal angle traces out a circle in ideal free space propagation. In more typical operating environments the radius as a function of azimuthal angle will have an irregular shape due to the different shadowing and multipath experienced at different client locations. A random back off mechanism ensures that listening devices that detect the channel as occupied will not all simultaneously attempt to transmit as soon as the channel becomes unoccupied.

Carrier sensing generally works well in low density deployments of APs where there are sufficient channels to avoid interference between APs and aggressive frequency reuse is not needed. However in dense deployments with neighboring APs using the same channel carrier sensing induces a tradeoff between aggressive frequency reuse and higher levels of interference as illustrated in . In when the CST is high the carrier sense radius is small. Hence AP and AP will transmit simultaneously each causing interference to the other AP s client. If this interference does not preclude successful packet reception then throughput is high if the interference is sufficiently high so as to cause packet errors then these packets need to be retransmitted thereby reducing throughput and increasing delay. In when the CST is low the carrier sense radius is large. This will preclude AP and AP from transmitting simultaneously. If both APs have data to transmit one will back off thereby reducing its throughput and increasing delay.

Current Wi Fi networks use a static CST that can be AP specific. Selecting static CST rarely optimizes network performance since whether or not two neighboring APs A and B transmit simultaneously depends on whether the power received from AP A at AP B and vice versa is below threshold. This is not the best criterion to use in particular packet errors are caused not by the interference between neighboring APs but are caused by the interference between a given AP and the client associated with the neighboring AP. As shown in with a low CST AP and AP fall within each other s carrier sense radius and hence will never transmit simultaneously. However since client is far from AP and client is far from AP a transmission from AP to client could occur simultaneously with a transmission from AP to client with minimal interference between them. Fundamentally whether AP should transmit when AP is transmitting should depend on how that interference impacts the signal received by AP s client i.e. it should depend on the signal to interference plus noise SINR at AP s client. In addition to adapting to SINR CSTs should also adapt to the AP density as more APs are added to the network as well as adapt to the client data requirements and changing propagation conditions of APs sharing the same channel. Setting the threshold adaptively can both increase throughput and reduce packet error probability.

As shown in some of the APs managed by cloud management system may be standalone Wi Fi APs . Alternatively some of the Wi Fi APs may be embedded into other devices such as cable modems DSL modems and the like. Standalone Wi Fi APs may be connected to a cable modem and cable modem may be connected to a cable modem termination system CMTS via a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC network . CMTS may be further connected to cloud management system via an operator core network . Data packets that are sent from CMTS to the Internet are routed through an Internet Gateway . Some APs managed by cloud management system may be integrated units each integrating a cable modem and a Wi Fi AP as a single unit. Integrated units may be connected to CMTS via HFC network .

In some embodiments a software agent is installed on the APs. For example a piece of software may be installed on an AP by an end user or a network administrator. In another example an application may be downloaded from a website and the application acts as an agent between the AP and cloud management system . Cloud management system may manage and configure the parameters of an AP using different protocols including Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP Control And Provisioning of Wireless Access Points CAPWAP Technical Report 069 181 TR 069 TR 181 Command Line Interface CLI Extensible Markup Language XML and the like.

At the heterogeneous wireless devices that are installed in the networks managed by cloud management system are discovered. For example the APs that are installed in the Wi Fi networks managed by cloud management system are discovered. Cloud management system is configured to manage a heterogeneous group of APs. The APs may support different Wi Fi protocols including 802.11a 802.11c 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac and the like. The APs can be made by different third party vendors. Some of the APs may be purchased off the shelf. Therefore the APs that are managed by cloud management system have a wide range of capabilities configurable parameters and interfaces. Cloud management system discovers the APs within the Wi Fi networks including their capabilities configurable parameters interfaces and the like. This information may be used by cloud management system to more optimally search for a set of configurable parameters for any AP managed by cloud management system to achieve improved overall network performance. For example a search algorithm that is run by cloud management system may take into consideration that a particular parameter is not configurable on a particular AP to reduce the search complexity by either searching over a smaller set of configurable parameters or simplifying the search based on a partition of the APs based on their configurability.

At measurement data is received from the wireless devices. For example measurement data is received from the Wi Fi APs such that the measurement data is locally collected by the APs and then sent to cloud management system . The measurement data collected by an AP may include data regarding the AP s clients and data regarding clients connected to neighboring APs. The measurement data may include receive signal strength indication RSSI channel quality index CQI throughput packet error rate and the like. RSSI is a measurement of the power present in a received radio signal. CQI is a measurement of the communication quality of wireless channels. In some embodiments the measurement data is Wi Fi standard based measurement data e.g. 802.11 standard based measurement data measured by the APs. In some embodiments the APs may collect additional measurement data that is optional or not specified in the 802.11 standards.

At adjustments to parameters associated with one or more wireless devices are searched to optimize the overall network performance. For example adjustments to Wi Fi parameters associated with one or more APs are searched to optimize the Wi Fi overall network performance. As cloud management system receives measurement data from many APs including APs installed in multiple Wi Fi networks the measurement data may be used by cloud management system to compute Wi Fi parameters that can optimize network performance in a global sense achieving superior network performance.

The Wi Fi overall network performance may be defined by different metrics. In some embodiments the metrics may be a set of network optimization goals defined by a network operator. The goals may include increasing the average network throughput increasing the geometric mean throughput reducing interference reducing outage probability reducing delay increasing coverage improving fairness supporting specific quality of service metrics for high priority traffic reducing network cost or backhaul cost reducing spectrum cost reducing infrastructure cost and the like.

Different Wi Fi parameters may be dynamically adjusted to optimize the Wi Fi overall network performance. As will be described in greater detail below Wi Fi parameters that can be dynamically and optimally adjusted may include CSTs channel allocation transmit power multiple input multiple output MIMO antenna parameters backoff parameters and the like.

Different optimization techniques may be employed by cloud management system for searching the optimized Wi Fi parameters. In some embodiments the network optimization goals are evaluated based at least in part on the measurement data received from the APs. For example an aggregate network throughput may be computed based on throughput measurement data received from the APs. The set of network optimization goals may be represented by an objective function or a cost function in an optimization problem. An optimized Wi Fi parameter resulting from the search is a feasible solution or optimal solution that minimizes or maximizes the objective function subject to different constraints. Since multiple types of Wi Fi parameters may be adjusted simultaneously during a search different techniques to combat interference increase throughput or maximize coverage may be leveraged at the same time. For example instead of determining channel allocation and CST individually or locally they can be optimized simultaneously in a global sense. Some constraints may be requirement constraints that are configurable by the network operator. For example one requirement constraint may impose a minimum percentage of AP clients in the Wi Fi networks with a throughput above a certain threshold.

The optimization may be either distributed or centralized. When the optimization is distributed the optimization may be based on a cost function for a given user or a given application. The cost function may be a weighted combination of throughput or potential throughput outage probability delay network cost or backhaul cost spectrum cost infrastructure cost and the like. When the optimization is centralized the optimization may be based on a cost function associated with many users or applications. The cost function may be a weighted combination of throughput or potential throughput outage probability delay network cost or backhaul cost spectrum cost infrastructure cost fairness and the like. Each element of the cost function may be weighted based on the element the user and or the application priority.

With continued reference to at at least some of the optimized adjustments to the one or more parameters are transmitted to the one or more wireless devices. For example at least some of the optimized adjustments to the one or more Wi Fi parameters are transmitted to the one or more APs. The received adjustments may be used by the APs for self configuration self optimization and self healing such that the APs can collectively form a self organizing network.

The received adjustments may be used to initialize an AP that has been recently installed. For example after an AP is first installed the AP collects initial measurement data and sends the data to cloud management system . Cloud management system then computes the parameters for AP and sends them to the AP for self configuration.

The received adjustments may be used to re configure an existing AP. When the existing AP connects to cloud management system for the first time the existing AP is treated as a new installation for the purpose of network optimization. Cloud management system computes new parameters for the existing AP based on the received measurement data from the existing AP and other APs and cloud management system sends the new parameters to the existing AP for reconfiguration.

The received adjustments may also be used to periodically update the Wi Fi parameters of an existing AP. These adjustments are computed based on dynamic real time measurements made periodically by the APs.

The received adjustments may also be used by the APs for self healing any network topology changes. For example a network topology change may be caused by the failure of an AP. Cloud management system detects the failure and the parameters of the surrounding APs are automatically adjusted to fill in the resulting coverage hole. In another example a network topology change may be caused by new APs being installed on a Wi Fi network. The network topology change may be detected by cloud management system which is triggered by the detection to initiate a new search.

In some embodiments the search performed by cloud management system may create local neighborhoods for local optimization in addition to global optimization. illustrates that APs may be divided into a plurality of local neighborhoods for local optimization. As shown in APs within a localized region are grouped together for local optimization. Similarly APs within another localized region are grouped together for local optimization. A local optimization may be performed prior to a global optimization across the entire network. The local optimization has a lower computational complexity and it avoids changing parameters across the entire network at the same time. The global optimization avoids local minima that may arise when only local parameters within a neighborhood are accounted for in the local optimization.

The AP coordination enabled by cloud management system provides additional functionality beyond the optimization of AP configuration including load balancing power control coordinated scheduling cross layer optimization seamless handovers and the like. Cloud management system can perform load balancing by moving a client connected to a heavily congested AP to a nearby AP that is less congested. Cloud management system can also enable seamless session handoff between APs such that mobile users experience no disruption in a streaming application such as video. Cloud management system can provide throughput maps showing the throughput available at different locations throughout the Wi Fi network as shown in . These maps are generated based on throughput calculations taking into account the RSSI and interference estimates the measured throughputs of clients and their estimated locations and the measured noise floor at each AP. Throughput maps identify coverage holes in the network. Moreover they can also be used to optimize new AP deployments by determining which of several possible locations provides the largest improvement in network throughput and coverage.

Wi Fi APs operate in the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands. These bands have three and thirteen non overlapping channels of 20 MHz respectively. The 802.11a g standard allows only one 20 MHz channel to be assigned to an AP and its clients while the 802.11n and 802.11ac standards allow up to two 20 MHz and up to four 40 MHz channels respectively to be assigned to each AP. When more than one channel is assigned to an AP there is the notion of a primary channel and secondary channels. The primary channel is used by an AP to communicate with devices that are restricted to the bandwidth associated with the channel. The secondary channels are used by an AP to communicate with devices that support bandwidths larger than that of the primary channel. For example in 802.11n two 20 MHz channels a primary and a secondary channel are bonded together to form a 40 MHz channel but only the primary channel is used for communication with 802.11a g devices as the latter only support 20 MHz channels. All packet transmissions between an AP and its clients occur either over only the primary channel or over the primary channel as well as one or more secondary channels. The AP generally prioritizes the use of its primary channel in its transmissions. Conversely the secondary channels can only be used if the interference caused by the AP on this channel is below the CST of neighboring APs on their primary channel. Channel assignment in 802.11 entails assigning each AP a primary channel and one or more secondary channels.

The primary and secondary channel assignments are examples of Wi Fi AP parameters that can be adjusted dynamically and automatically to optimize the overall network performance based on a set of network optimization goals. The primary and secondary channel assignments are chosen optimally or sub optimally based on the set of network optimization goals. The primary and secondary channel assignments and other types of Wi Fi parameters may be adjusted simultaneously during a search. However in some cases an optimal adjustment may not be available and cloud management system optimizes the APs channel assignment as follows 

1. Each AP is typically assigned the maximum bandwidth it can support 20 MHz for 802.11a g APs 40 MHz for 802.11n APs and 160 MHz for 802.11ac APs. This increases the likelihood that the clients associated with each AP can be served at the highest data rates possible. In some cases assigning the maximum bandwidth that the AP can support is not the optimum solution in increasing network performance in such cases a smaller bandwidth is assigned to that AP.

2. The primary channel assignment scheme is such that the closest APs are assigned non overlapping primary channels. This minimizes contention when all the APs use only primary channels.

3. Secondary channels if applicable are assigned to the APs to minimize interference on the primary channels.

4. Channels are assigned to minimize interference from APs not under the control of cloud management system .

5. Channel assignments are periodically re optimized as the load in each basic service set BSS and the associations of clients to a BSS e.g. due to mobility or load balancing change over time.

In some embodiments cloud management system optimizes the assignment of primary channels of APs such that APs with their primary channels on the same frequency channel whether controlled by cloud management system or not are farthest apart. illustrates an embodiment in which primary channels are assigned such that APs with their primary channels on the same frequency channel are farthest apart. APs and are managed by cloud management system while AP is not. The primary channels for AP AP and AP are assigned different frequency channels whereas the primary channel of AP is assigned the same frequency channel as the AP farthest away i.e. the primary channel of AP . In some embodiments simple models for interference are used for optimizing the assignment of the primary channels as described above. In some embodiments low complexity computational techniques for approximately solving a combinatorial optimization problem are used for optimizing the assignment of the primary channels as described above. These techniques include belief propagation convex optimization and genetic mutation.

Given the assignment of primary channels secondary channels if applicable are assigned to the APs to minimize interference on primary channels. However since the number of channels available is limited and cloud management system first assigns the maximum bandwidth to each AP an AP s primary channel may overlap with a neighboring AP s secondary channels as shown in . As indicated in neighboring APs have non overlapping primary channels denoted by P while the secondary channel S of each AP overlaps with the primary channel of the other AP. In addition secondary channel S or S of AP overlaps with secondary channel S or S of AP . Based on the 802.11 standard AP can transmit at its maximum power on its primary channel and will often do so to clients located on the edge of its coverage area. Without dynamic configuration of the CST i.e. if the CST is set statically the CST is typically set at a level such that AP cannot reuse this channel which is a secondary channel for AP for transmission when AP transmits at maximum power. For clients well in the interior of its coverage region AP will typically transmit at a lower power on its primary channel and one or more of its secondary channels. If the CST is set statically it is typically set at a level such that AP can reuse these channels when AP transmits at this lower power level. Thus this results in fractional frequency reuse. As will be described in greater detail below dynamic adaptation of the CST and dynamic adaptation of power can provide additional degrees of freedom for optimization resulting in further improved performance.

The transmit power levels of the APs are examples of Wi Fi AP parameters that can be adjusted dynamically and automatically to optimize the overall network performance based on a set of network optimization goals. Cloud management system also tunes the individual transmit power at APs based on their radio measurements. The transmit power at each AP is selected optimally or sub optimally based on the network optimization goals. For example reducing transmit power at a given AP reduces interference between the given AP and other devices on the same channel. However this also reduces SNR and RSSI between the AP and its connected devices. Thus power control optimizes this tradeoff. As another example CST values can be taken into account while setting the transmit power of an AP. In particular the transmit power of a given AP can be set such that neighboring APs only back off when their interference to at least one client of the given AP is above a given threshold. This form of power control is especially useful when an AP is serving clients experiencing relatively good channel quality and hence interference from neighboring APs would not create significant degradation. In addition cloud management system detects coverage holes via the RF coverage maps as discussed below. Upon detection of a coverage hole cloud management system increases the transmit power of APs in the vicinity of the coverage hole up to the maximum level to fill in the hole. As another example transmit power control can be jointly optimized with primary and secondary channel allocation to improve the network optimization.

In some embodiments cloud management system dynamically adapts the CSTs of the APs. In dense Wi Fi deployments if the CST is low the coverage area of the AP is typically much smaller than its carrier sense radius. As a result an AP would sense the medium and avoid transmitting to its client even when the client is far from the interfering AP e.g. see Client of and is thus capable of receiving the transmission from the AP. On the other hand if the CST is high a number of transmitters access the same channel simultaneously creating higher interference as shown in . Therefore the CST value on APs should be set dynamically based on client locations propagation conditions load and network topology.

In some embodiments cloud management system dynamically adjusts the CST to systematically create periods of high reuse and low reuse. During the high reuse periods the CST is high so neighboring APs on the same channel will typically transmit packets simultaneously leading to high data rates but potentially higher packet loss due to interference. Conversely during periods of low reuse neighboring APs transmit at different times in order to protect the weaker links thereby preventing their outage. This can be achieved by using different CST values during different periods. Specifically high CST values are used during high reuse periods while low CST values are used during low reuse periods. The CST values and the division of time between the high and low reuse phases are optimized based on the channel and load measurements. In some embodiments larger channel bandwidths are assigned to the APs to provide more flexibility to the neighboring APs in reusing the channel in time.

While the CST settings of provide aggressive reuse for AP and AP AP is precluded from transmitting. Thus during other time intervals as shown in the dynamic CST would configure AP with a high CST while AP and AP are configured with low CST values. During such intervals when AP transmits to client AP and AP backs off from transmitting upon sensing AP s transmissions thereby ensuring client is protected from the potential interference. This ensures that the network can guarantee that all clients obtain satisfactory user experience. This dynamic CST optimization scheme may be coupled with dynamic channel assignment discussed earlier to jointly optimize the channel allocation and frequency reuse for each channel. This dynamic CST optimization scheme may be coupled with dynamic channel allocation discussed earlier to jointly optimize channel allocation and transmit power for each channel. Dynamic CST power control and channel allocation may also be jointly optimized.

In some embodiments cloud management system dynamically optimizes the MIMO parameters of the APs. By introducing standards based support for multiple antennas the 802.11n and 802.11ac standards provide additional spatial dimensions for optimization. This flexibility allows for higher data rates and improved link reliability within the same bandwidth. In particular compared to single antenna transmission reception MIMO schemes provide a three fold advantage in terms of increased data throughput spatial multiplexing increased link reliability transmit diversity and array gain spatial beamforming .

The 802.11n and 802.11ac standards support up to 4 and 8 transmit and receive antennas respectively with an equal number of maximum spatial streams. The 802.11n ac standards provide support for achieving the aforementioned advantages via spatial precoding and beamforming schemes. The peak rate achieved in 802.11n is 600 Mbps while that in 802.11ac is more than 1 Gbps. In addition the 802.11ac standard supports Multi User MIMO MU MIMO wherein multiple clients each equipped with one or more antennas can simultaneously transmit receive within the same frequency channel.

1. Transmission Selection between Spatial Multiplexing and Diversity There is a tradeoff between maximizing the data rate via transmitting multiple spatial streams and providing adequate link reliability in the presence of fading and multipath propagation via diversity for each spatial stream. This paradigm is referred to as the Diversity Multiplexing DM tradeoff. In some embodiments cloud management system optimizes the transmission scheme by exploiting the DM tradeoff depending on the radio link conditions between each AP to its client.

2. Beamforming Beamforming at the AP provides increased signal to noise ratio SNR at a client alternatively given knowledge of the channel statistics the solution can minimize interference to clients connected to neighboring APs on the same channel.

3. Switching between Single User and Multi User MIMO In high geometry and sufficiently uncorrelated scenarios the solution will enable APs to spatially precode and transmit to multiple clients provided their spatial signatures are sufficiently resolvable at the client.

Cloud management system utilizes measurements performed by the APs to measure the channels to its clients as well as clients associated with neighboring APs operating on the same frequencies. The channels are estimated on the basis of sounding packets transmitted by clients. The measurements are fed back to Wi Fi network manager which optimizes the MIMO parameters at the APs via standardized interfaces as discussed above.

In some embodiments cloud management system dynamically adapts the load balancing of the APs. Load balancing dynamically updates the association of clients based on the loads at different APs. For example if an AP is highly loaded cloud management system can avoid overloading this AP by a client on the boundary of the AP s coverage area to connect to a neighboring AP with a low load even if the channel quality of the client to the neighboring AP is not as good. This load balancing can result in performance improvement for this client as well as the other clients connected to the original AP. After offloading a client from one AP to a less loaded AP cloud management system then re optimizes the channel allocations and transmit powers of the affected APs to account for this change in load.

In some embodiments cloud management system dynamically coordinates the scheduling of the APs. Cloud management system enables a backhaul coordinated scheduling whereby the APs managed by the network manager access the medium in a contention free manner by transmitting beacon frames and a NAV based reservation within the beacon frames of the medium. This notion of centralized scheduling and beacon based access is akin to the concept of almost blank subframes discussed earlier. Within the contention free period the resource allocation e.g. the number of transmission opportunities at individual APs within the contention free period can be determined by cloud management system based on different parameters such as for example the queue lengths of different traffic classes at individual APs. Between time intervals with contention free access the dynamic configuration technique will implement periods of contention based access in order to ensure that APs that are not managed by cloud management system can access the medium.

In some embodiments cloud management system enables Cross Layer Optimization for Adaptive Video Streaming. One of the key challenges in adaptive video streaming over HTTP over TCP is to adapt the video quality to the end to end bandwidth available between the server and the client. If a Wi Fi network is used as the last hop to deliver streaming video to the client the bandwidth is often limited by the wireless bandwidth available between the client and the AP it connects to. In some embodiments application programming interfaces APIs are used between the media access control MAC layer and the application layer to achieve the following 

1. Estimates of data rates that can be offered in the future for example on a timescale of tens of seconds can be provided to the application layer. This can help the application layer better adapt the video quality. Current solutions can be either too aggressive or too slow to react to bandwidth variation.

2. Admission control and rate guarantees may be performed for the different video streaming flows so that the desired quality of video can be viewed by the users. User differentiation can also be provided.

In some embodiments cloud management system enables seamless Handoffs. In Wi Fi networks APs with the same SSID are called an Extended Service Set clients transparently connect to any AP in this set without differentiation. Cloud management system configures the Extended Service Set ESS for APs within a hotspot to ensure client mobility within the service area. Existing management interfaces are used to configure APs in this set without requiring changes to the AP s software.

Advanced handoff functionality may be supported when a software agent is integrated with the APs. Inter AP coordination for seamless handoffs within an ESS can be provided. The software agent adds Proxy Mobile IP functionality to the AP enabling client handover across ESSs. This is a network initiated procedure and there is no dependency on the client.

In some embodiments cloud management system provides coverage maps. Note that all APs as well as clients constantly monitor the wireless medium and attempt to decode all ongoing transmissions. As part of the decoding process channel estimation is performed and thus the total received power from the transmitter of the ongoing transmission is determined. Thus an AP will typically measure the RSSI from all APs and their clients operating on the same channel as long as the packets transmitted by them can be received at sufficient received power. By cycling through different channels periodically the AP can measure the channel gains to neighboring APs and their clients on all channels. This information along with channel propagation models and client location information determined by GPS if available or estimated via intersections of location contours based on time difference of arrival angle of arrival or connection trajectory estimates are used by cloud management system to create SINR measurements at all client locations and the associated throughput and coverage maps as illustrated in .

As a second illustrative example of process dynamic configuration of cellular networks is discussed next. In cellular networks the increasingly limited availability of licensed cellular spectrum has motivated a change in cellular network architecture from flat to hierarchical. Most 2G and 3G cellular network architectures were flat consisting mainly of macrocells transmitting at 10 40 W of power. While such large cells are beneficial for fast deployment and wide area coverage they do not provide high capacity due to their non aggressive frequency reuse. Smaller cells such as microcells picocells and femtocells transmit at much lower powers 0.01 10 W and hence have smaller coverage areas. As a result they can devote their full resources to a smaller number of users and hence have much higher capacity than macrocells. The high capacity of small cells has led to a hierarchical cellular architecture wherein large cells are deployed for coverage while smaller cells are deployed for capacity. Since small cells are generally much cheaper than large cells their cost per Mbit is generally much lower. However the deployment challenges of small cells have precluded their widespread adoption to date. In particular there are currently about 3 million macrocells in place worldwide today each of which typically deployed by a team of skilled personnel spending about 7.5 man days to carefully plan and configure the macrocell base station parameters. The cost and time to configure small cells in a similar manner is prohibitive. Hence an automated solution for self configuring the small cells is needed.

Cloud based RRM algorithms provide such a solution. Process may be used to configure and update parameters in one or more cellular networks to optimize the overall network performance. The RRM algorithm dynamically optimizes the parameters of each small cell LTE base stations eNodeBs under its control including channel allocation fractional frequency reuse transmit power and range extension bias. The RRM algorithm can also optimize an eNodeB s response to inter channel interference coordination ICIC messages it receives over the standards based X2 interface. The objective of the RRM algorithm is to centrally optimize the overall network performance by minimizing interference maximizing throughput maximizing coverage and ensuring robustness and self healing. The RRM algorithm can also impose operator driven constraints such as minimum throughput per user or bounded interference to the HetNet macrocells. Energy consumption minimization potentially based on load can also be incorporated into the algorithm.

Because cloud management system collects measurements and other information from the heterogeneous wireless devices in various types of wireless networks cloud management system may optimize the parameters of a heterogeneous wireless device located on one type of wireless network based on measurement data collected from another heterogeneous wireless device located on another type of wireless network or based on information related to another type of wireless network wherein each type of network uses a different type of radio access technology e.g. Wi Fi 2G 3G 4G LTE millimeter wave technology and cognitive radio . For example referring back to step of process cloud management system may collect measurement data from Wi Fi APs Wi Fi APs small cell LTE eNodeBs 2G second generation wireless telephone technology and 3G third generation of mobile telecommunications technology cellular base stations dual mode Wi Fi cellular devices millimeter wave devices cognitive radio devices and other wireless terminals operating in the licensed and or unlicensed spectral bands. At step of process optimized adjustments to Wi Fi parameters associated with a particular Wi Fi AP or a group of Wi Fi APs may be searched based on measurement data associated with Wi Fi and other radio access technologies e.g. 2G 3G 4G LTE millimeter wave technology and cognitive radio .

Cloud management system may also configure the heterogeneous wireless devices to enable roaming within a given network. For Wi Fi networks the 802.11 standard allows seamless roaming of clients between all APs with the same SSID which is a parameter configurable by cloud management system . In addition a given AP may be configured with multiple SSIDs allowing both private SSIDs for a private set of client devices and public SSIDs to enable roaming for all client devices authenticated for such roaming services. Hence AP configuration by cloud management system allows for global SSIDs whereby all APs registered with the cloud management system can be used by a client authenticated for roaming between all cloud managed APs.

Cloud management system also allows for network initiated seamless handoffs between different types of networks that use different types of radio access technologies. Since cloud management system has access to information and measurement data across many different types of networks cloud management system may optimize the overall network performance by initiating the handoff of a client device from one network to another. For example cloud management system may initiate a seamless handoff between an LTE cellular network and an 802.11 Wi Fi network. In another example cloud management system may initiate a seamless handoff between an LTE cellular network and a cognitive radio network. In some embodiments cloud management system determines that a handoff should be performed then directs the related heterogeneous wireless device to do so. In some embodiments cloud management system may selectively send certain information or measurement data collected by cloud management system to a heterogeneous wireless device to allow the heterogeneous wireless device to decide whether to handoff a client device to another network or not. In some embodiments cloud management system may selectively send certain information or measurement data collected by cloud management system to a client device to allow the client device to decide whether to handoff to another network or not.

For LTE Wi Fi handoff to a stand alone Wi Fi AP a software agent on the AP is used. This agent requests the public IP address of the user equipment UE from the LTE operator s core network and then tunnels packets to the UE from Wi Fi via the mobile IP protocol as will be described in greater detail below. For dual model Wi Fi small cell devices a simultaneous connection to the UE through both the Wi Fi and LTE network is maintained. This allows for simultaneous access to LTE and Wi Fi network services minimal overhead when the UE switches between the LTE and Wi Fi networks as well as intelligent handoff between the two networks based on network conditions Quality of Service QoS load balancing and UE velocity.

As an illustrative example handoff from LTE to a stand alone Wi Fi AP is discussed next. is an exemplary block diagram illustrating a plurality of user equipment terminals UEs establishing connections to the Internet via either a cellular network or a Wi Fi network . An UE may be any client device used by an end user to communicate including a smartphone a laptop computer or a tablet equipped with mobile broadband adapters and the like.

The upper portion of illustrates an embodiment of a cellular network that is operated by a mobile network operator MNO e.g. Verizon Wireless or T Mobile USA. An MNO is a provider of wireless communications services that owns or controls the elements to deliver services to an end user including radio spectrum allocation wireless network infrastructure back haul infrastructure billing customer care and the like. Cellular network provides UEs with connectivity to other UEs and to different services and devices on the Internet .

Cellular network may be any IP based cellular network such as a 4G LTE network a WiMAX network and the like. UEs obtain services from cellular network by communicating wirelessly with a base station e.g. an eNodeB in a 4G LTE network. Base station in turn communicates with other elements in cellular network . For example elements in cellular network include but are not limited to a radio IP gateway a cellular network gateway a mobility management device an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server and a cellular network dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP server. AAA server is a server that authenticates and authorizes a mobile user and also provides accounting features to a billing server. A DHCP server is a server that allocates an IP address to a client. Cellular network gateway is a gateway for routing and address allocation.

The lower portion of illustrates an embodiment of a Wi Fi network which is connected to the Internet via a wide area network WAN . A Wi Fi network may operate in a variety of settings including a residential setting as a home Wi Fi network a commercial retail setting as a Wi Fi hotspot or a business office setting as an enterprise Wi Fi network. In some embodiments Wi Fi network is a wireless local area network WLAN operating in infrastructure mode. In infrastructure mode a plurality of UEs and a plurality of local devices communicate with a Wi Fi access point Wi Fi AP in a hub and spoke topology. Local devices are devices that provide local services. In some embodiments local devices include local printers copiers scanners cameras storage media fax machines and the like.

In some embodiments Wi Fi AP may be connected either directly or indirectly via a layer 2 switch or a layer 3 router to WAN which provides connectivity to the Internet . WAN may be any backhaul connection to the Internet . For example WAN may include a digital subscriber line DSL modem which provides Internet connectivity over the local telephone network. In another example WAN may include a cable modem which provides Internet connectivity via a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC network. In some embodiments Wi Fi AP may be integrated with a cable modem and the integrated unit may send traffic to a cable modem termination system CMTS via a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC network. Wi Fi AP is a heterogeneous wireless device that is managed and controlled by cloud management system .

Note that the techniques disclosed in the present application are applicable to any IP based cellular network standard including the 4G LTE network as shown in and the WiMAX network as shown in . Therefore even though the techniques may be disclosed using terminologies corresponding to a particular type of network standard the techniques disclosed in the present application should not be limited to one type of network standard only.

In some embodiments AP determines when and whether to handoff and offload data between cellular networks and Wi Fi networks. The determination is based on information and measurement data sent to AP by cloud management system . In some embodiments cloud management system determines when and whether to handoff and offload data and directs AP to do so. A handoff from the cellular network to the Wi Fi network or from the Wi Fi network to the cellular network may be based on a set of criteria. The set of criteria may be based on any combination of network policies and characteristics QoS requirements of the UE such as whether the UE is a subscriber with premium services or standard services the type of application e.g. video versus HTTP traffic network performance load balancing metrics and the like. Network policies may include the policy of the mobile network operator MNO the policy of the Wi Fi network backhaul provider e.g. the DSL service provider or the cable network service provider and or the policy of the local network e.g. the network access policy of an enterprise . Performance and load balancing metrics may include the level of traffic congestion the degree of latency the throughput or other metrics. The metrics may be monitored on the cellular network and the Wi Fi network.

Criteria for handoff from a cellular network to a Wi Fi network may include but are not limited to one or more of the following 

Criteria for handoff from a Wi Fi network to a cellular network may include but are not limited to one or more of the following 

Some UEs may be pre programmed with a given network preference e.g. pre programmed to always use a Wi Fi network when available . Under this situation if the handoff criteria determine that the UE should use the cellular network for access AP may block or deny any Wi Fi network access by the UE to force the handoff from the Wi Fi network to the cellular network. Alternatively UEs may be enabled to set the network it connects to based on a control command in which case the control command would be issued by AP .

With reference to and UE attaches to an LTE cellular network by initiating an authentication process at . At MME relays the authentication information to AAA server which authenticates UE and responds with the UE s provisioned parameters. If UE is configured as a mobile UE then AAA server responds with the UE s Mobile IP MIP attributes including the MN HA keys the FA HA Keys and the IP address of P GW HA .

At UE issues a DHCP request in order to be allocated an IP address. At when P GW HA receives the DHCP request it initiates a MIP registration. In particular P GW HA acts as a PMIP client and sends a MIP registration request to its HA function.

At P GW HA function responds to P GW HA with the MIP registration reply and includes the allocated UE s IP address hereinafter referred to as the Home IP Address. In particular if a DHCP server is configured in P GW HA P GW HA requests the DHCP server to allocate an IP address for this UE . Otherwise P GW HA may allocate the IP address itself based on local configuration.

At P GW HA responds to UE with the allocated Home IP Address as part of the DHCP response. At after acquiring the Home IP Address UE may initiate data transmission. At S GW tunnels packets from the UE to P GW HA in a general packet radio service tunneling protocol GTP tunnel. At upon receipt of a packet from the tunnel P GW HA decapsulates the packet and forwards the decapsulated packet to the Internet .

With reference to and a request from a UE to connect to enterprise Wi Fi network is received by AP at . For example when a UE that is already configured with the AP information of the enterprise Wi Fi network i.e. the Service Set Identifier or SSID moves within range of the Wi Fi network UE sends a request to AP requesting to be attached to AP . In response AP initiates an authentication process. At the authentication information sent by UE is received by AP . Included in the authentication information may be the Network Access Identifier of the UE from which AP can identify the MNO that the UE is associated with.

At the authentication information sent by UE is relayed by AP to the AAA server associated with the MNO. AAA server authenticates UE and responds with the provisioned parameters of the UE. At the provisioned parameters of UE are received by AP and AP is associated with the UE after the completion of authentication.

At a DHCP request issued by UE requesting for an IP address to be allocated to the UE is intercepted by AP . At a DHCP request for a local IP address is sent by AP to a Wi Fi network DHCP server which may be collocated with AP or connected to it. In particular AP sends the request to the Wi Fi network DHCP server as a DHCP proxy client relay. In response to the DHCP request sent by AP the DHCP server allocates a local IP address hereinafter referred to as the Local IP Address from its address pool in the same manner as it would if a local Wi Fi client e.g. a printer connecting to the AP had issued a DHCP request.

At mobile IP registration with P GW HA is initiated by AP . AP acting as a proxy mobile IP PMIP client initiates mobile IP registration with P GW HA using the assigned Local IP Address as the foreign agent IP address FA IP . At the UE s previously allocated Home IP Address is sent by P GW HA and received by AP . At a DHCP OFFER message which includes the Home IP Address is sent by AP to the UE. UE may then initiate data transmission at this point. In particular UE sends data packets with the source IP address set to Home IP Address.

At AP may determine whether IP in IP tunneling is needed. In the event that tunneling is needed the UE s packets can be tunneled by AP to P GW HA on an IP in IP tunnel. The tunnel is created with the source IP address set to Local IP Address and the destination IP address set to the HA IP address. Upon receipt of a packet from the tunnel P GW HA decapsulates the packet and forwards the decapsulated packet to the Internet . In the event that tunneling is not needed the UE s packets are sent directly to the Internet without going through a tunnel.

Handoff of a UE between a cellular network and a Wi Fi network may occur at one or more instances during a connection with a UE. A handoff of the UE from the cellular network to a Wi Fi network may occur when the UE initially comes within range of and attempts to connect with a Wi Fi network as described in process . Some UEs may be pre programmed with a given network preference e.g. pre programmed to always use a Wi Fi network when available . However it is the offload agent acting together with the AP or the cloud management system which decides whether the handoff to the Wi Fi network should occur. If the handoff criteria determine that the UE should use the cellular network for access AP may block any Wi Fi network access by the UE to force the UE to continue using the cellular network. Alternatively UEs may be enabled to set the network it connects to based on a control command in which case the control command would be issued by AP . After a connection to the Wi Fi network is established AP may subsequently force a handoff of the UE from the Wi Fi network to the cellular network and then from the cellular network back to Wi Fi network in accordance with handoff criteria previously discussed.

Cloud management system also allows for sending a message or a data stream through multiple pathways including pathways that traverse different types of wireless networks using linear network coding or multiple description coding techniques.

Linear network coding is a technique that can be used to improve a network s throughput efficiency and scalability as well as resilience to attacks and eavesdropping. Linear network coding involves breaking a message into chunks deriving information about those chunks and then sending that meta information down multiple pathways in such a way that the original message can be reconstructed at the recipient s end even if some of the chunks are lost. One aspect of network coding involves deciding how many paths to send a message through. Increasing the number of paths decreases the impact of any single path failure although it increases the number of devices in involved in a single call. This strategy spreads the load of the call across more participants decreasing the power burden for each while increasing the amount of coordination required. Since cloud management system has access to information and measurement data across many different types of networks cloud management system may determine the pathways for linear network coding while optimizing overall network performance.

Multiple description coding MDC is a coding technique that fragments a single media stream into n substreams n 2 referred to as descriptions. The packets of each description are routed over multiple partially disjoint paths. In order to decode the media stream any description can be used. However the quality improves with the number of descriptions received in parallel. MDC provides error resilience in media streams. Since an arbitrary subset of descriptions can be used to decode the original stream network congestion or packet loss will not interrupt the stream but only cause a temporary loss of quality. As cloud management system has access to information and measurement data across many different types of networks cloud management system may determine the pathways or the number of descriptions for multiple description coding while optimizing overall network performance.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

