---

title: System and method for generating a color palette based on audio content
abstract: A computer-implemented system and method of determining a color palette to be associated with an audio selection is presented. The system and method includes receiving an audio selection, sending data associated with the audio selection to a music information server and receiving information about the audio selection, sending the information to a color palette server that selects one or more color palettes based on the information, receiving the color palettes from the color palette server, associating one of the color palettes with the audio selection, and sending the associated color palette and audio selection to one or more third parties using a mode of social media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652118&OS=09652118&RS=09652118
owner: Marcus Thomas LLC
number: 09652118
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140116
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 753 233 filed Jan. 16 2013 which is incorporated by reference.

The systems and methods described below relate generally to the field of generating a color palette based on audio content and more specifically the systems and methods described below relate to the field of generating a color palette based on the musical content of an audio selection and associating the color palette with the audio selection for sharing using social media.

A computer implemented method of selecting a color palette based on media content includes sending media data to a music information server receiving media characteristic data from the music information server that is associated with the media data determining a color palette based at least in part on one or both of the media data and the media characteristic data and presenting the color palette. The computer implemented method can also include presenting alternative color palettes receiving a selection of a color palette and associating the selected color palette with the media data. The computer implemented method can also include sampling audio data as the media data or receiving a selection of a song name from a library of song as the media data. The media data can also be a selected audio stream an audio clip a song a song name a song lyric a quote a music genre a human voice a sound effect a movie stream or a movie clip. Media characteristic data can include music attributes such as a song name an artist name an icon a length of an audio selection an indicia of tempo an indicia of mood a genre a subgenre an indicia of instrument density an indicia of brightness an indicia of hardness an indicia of percussiveness a key an indicia of synthecity and a main instrument. The computer implemented method can determine the color palette based on one or more music attributes. The color palette can be a palette that is two coordinated colors a palette that is three coordinated colors a palette that includes four or more coordinated colors a palette that is a main color a trim color and an accent color and a palette that includes a primary color a secondary color a tertiary color or additional colors. The computer implemented method can determine the color by looking up a color palette that is stored in a lookup table by algorithmically determining a color palette by deterministically selecting a color palette based on the media characteristic data by pseudo deterministically selecting a color palette based on the media characteristic data or by non deterministically selecting a color palette. The computer implemented method can cause the posting of the color palette and an indicia of the media data for example a song name onto social media such as email or one or more social media sites.

A non transitory computer readable medium can include instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive an audio selection send data associated with the audio selection to a music information server and receive music information data about the audio selection send at least some of the music information data to a color palette server and receive a color palette and display the color palette. The instructions can also allow the processor to receive a plurality of color palettes from the color palette server display one or more of the color palettes receive a selection of a color palette and associated the selected color palette with the audio selection. The data associated with the audio selection can include sampled audio data that can be compressed for example using Message Digest 5 compression. The audio selection can be selected from an audio stream an audio clip a song a song name a song lyric a quote a music genre a human voice a sound effect a movie stream or a movie clip. The music information data can include music attributes such as a song name an artist name an icon a length of an audio selection an indicia of tempo an indicia of mood a genre a subgenre an indicia of instrument density an indicia of brightness an indicia of hardness an indicia of percussiveness a key an indicia of synthecity and a main instrument. The instructions can cause the processor to select the color palette based at least in part of one or more music attributes. The instructions can instruct the processor to cause the posting of the color palette and an indicia of the audio selection onto social media.

A system can include a mobile computing device and a color palette server. The mobile computing device can be configured to receive an audio selection send data associated with the audio selection to a music information server and receive music information data about the audio selection send at least some of the music information data to a color palette server and receive a color palette display the color palette and send the color palette and one or both of the audio selection and some of the music information data via social media for example by causing a post to a social media site or by email. The color palette server can be configured to receive some of the music information data select a color palette based at least in part on the received music information data and send a color palette. The color palette server can also select a plurality of alternative color palettes and send the alternative color palettes to the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device can receive the alternative color palettes display one or more of the alternative color palettes and receive a selection of one of the alternative color palettes. The audio selection can be a song selected from a library of songs on the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device can include a microphone input that can sample audio as the audio selection and the data associated with the audio selection can be Message Digest 5 compressed audio data of the sample audio.

The systems and methods disclosed herein are described in detail by way of examples and with reference to the figures. It will be appreciated that modifications to disclosed and described examples arrangements configurations components elements apparatuses methods systems etc. can be made and may be desired for a specific application. In this disclosure any identification of specific techniques arrangements etc. are either related to a specific example presented or are merely a general description of such a technique arrangement etc. Identifications of specific details or examples are not intended to be and should not be construed as mandatory or limiting unless specifically designated as such. The systems and methods disclosed herein describe systems and methods for generating a color palette based upon audio content such as music with selected examples disclosed and described in detail with reference made to . Although the apparatuses devices systems and methods disclosed and described herein can be used to generate a color palette based upon audio content those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any other suitable audio and non audio content can be used in generating a color palette including without limitation a media selection such as a human voice sound effects movie clips quotes and so forth. Throughout this document terms such as song music and audio may be used interchangeably and are not intended to limit the invention to a specific embodiment. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize from reading the detailed description that the apparatuses devices methods and systems described can be applied to or easily modified for use with other types of equipment other arrangements of computing systems such as client server peer to peer or distributed systems and use other protocols or operate at other layers in communication protocol stacks.

Throughout this disclosure references to components or modules generally refer to items that logically can be grouped together to perform a function or group of related functions. Like reference numerals are generally intended to refer to the same or similar components. Components and modules can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The term software is used expansively to include not only executable code but also data structures data stores and computing instructions in any electronic format firmware and embedded software. The terms information and data are used expansively and includes a wide variety of electronic information including but not limited to machine executable or machine interpretable instructions content such as text video data and audio data among others and various codes or flags. The terms information data and content are sometimes used interchangeably when permitted by context. It should be noted that although for clarity and to aid in understanding some examples discussed below might describe specific features or functions as part of a specific component or module or as occurring at a specific layer of a computing device for example a hardware layer operating system layer or application layer those features or functions may be implemented as part of a different component or module or at a different layer.

The examples discussed below are examples only and are provided to assist in the explanation of the apparatuses devices systems and methods described herein. None of the features or components shown in the drawings or discussed below should be taken as mandatory for any specific implementation of any of these the apparatuses devices systems or methods unless specifically designated as mandatory. For ease of reading and clarity certain components modules or methods may be described solely in connection with a specific figure. Any failure to specifically describe a combination or sub combination of components should not be understood as an indication that any combination or sub combination is not possible. Also for any methods described regardless of whether the method is described in conjunction with a flow diagram it should be understood that unless otherwise specified or required by context any explicit or implicit ordering of steps performed in the execution of a method does not imply that those steps must be performed in the order presented but instead may be performed in a different order or in parallel.

The figures and accompanying detailed description generally describe an application or app that includes computer executable instructions capable of executing on a computing platform such as a desktop laptop tablet mobile computing device or other suitable hardware. The app can include software modules processes application programming interfaces or APIs drivers helper applications such as plug ins databases such as search and query databases and other types of software modules or computer programming as would be understood in the art.

In one example an app can be an application executing on a mobile device for example an app available for downloading onto and executing on an Apple iPhone from the Apple iStore . Referring to example elements of a splash screen for the app are illustrated as such elements can be displayed on a display screen of the mobile device. The splash screen is generally the first screen that appears on the display screen of the mobile device when an app begins executing. The splash screen can include the app name one or more background graphics and a logo or trademark that identifies a particular brand or product associated with the app. A splash screen generally appears while the app is loading and can remain on the display screen until the app has completed loading or for a short period of time after the app has loaded. The splash screen can also be configured to remain on the display screen until a user taps on the display screen.

After the splash screen a source selection screen can appear on the display screen of the mobile device. Referring to example elements of a source selection screen for the app are illustrated. The source selection screen can include header information for example header information that describes what screen the user is viewing. In one embodiment the header information describes that the screen being viewed is for choosing a song. The source selection screen can also include instructions for example instructions that instruct the user to select a source for turning a favorite song into a color palette. The source selection screen can include one or more source selection buttons A and B collectively source selection buttons . In an embodiment a first source selection button A allows a user to select the microphone or MIC of the mobile device as the source for sampling music that is currently playing audibly in the user s environment. A second source selection button B allows a user to select a song or a portion of a song from a library of songs or other audio content stored on the mobile device. Other source selection buttons can also be used. For example a source selection button can be arranged to obtain audio content from the Internet a server or other such remote location accessible by the mobile device.

The source selection screen can include the app name for example in the footer area of the source selection screen as illustrated in . The source selection screen can also include application selection buttons A B collectively application selection buttons that can be in the header area the footer area or any other appropriate area of the source selection screen . Example application selection buttons include a My Mixes application selection button A that allows the user to view a list of saved songs and associated color palettes see and accompanying detailed description below . Other example application selections buttons can include a Where to Buy application selection button B. When selected Where to Buy application selection button B can open a browser window for example an Apple Safari browser window that hyperlinks to a website associated with the brand or product identified with the logo presented above in the splash screen and that provides a store lookup service or store information where their product can be purchased.

If the user selected the second source selection button B to select a song from their library a screen for manually selecting a song from the user library is presented. Referring to example elements of a screen for manually selecting a song from the user library for the app are illustrated. The screen for manually selecting a song from the user library can include header information for example header information that describes what screen the user is viewing. In one embodiment the header information describes that the screen being viewed is a list of songs in the user s library for example songs stored on the user s mobile computing device. The screen for manually selecting a song from the user library can include the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and similar to the elements depicted in . The screen for manually selecting a song from the user library can include a list of songs A B C D E F and G collectively songs . The songs can be arranged and selectable using any suitable control or widget and can be arranged in a cycle box type arrangement. Once a user selects a song a screen displayed during processing is presented as described below for .

Referring again to if the user presses the first source selection button A to select the MIC or microphone for sampling music a music listening screen is presented. depicts example elements of a music listening screen for the app. The music listening screen can include header information for example header information that describes what screen the user is viewing. In one embodiment the header information describes that the screen being viewed is for having the computing device sample music playing in the user s environment e.g. listening. The music listening screen can include the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and similar to the elements depicted in . The music listening screen can include a Tap to Listen selection button to initiate the sampling of the music by the computing device. The Tap to Listen selection button can be sensitive to user presses in an area proximate to the Tap to Listen selection button . Or the Tap to Listen selection button can use the entire screen area except for areas dedicated to the application selection buttons or the Tap to Listen selection button can include an actual button area not shown . When the user taps the screen proximate to the Tap to Listen selection button the app can use a microphone on the computing device to sample music playing in the user s environment.

The app can sample music or audio for a configurable period of time for example to obtain a ten second sample of the music or audio. The app can be configured so that it continues to sample music until the Tap to Listen selection button is pressed again by the user. The app can be configured to continue to sample music until the sampled music is recognized or its attributes determined. The sampled music can be captured in a lossless format for example the Waveform Audio File Format or WAV format. The sampled music can also be captured in or processed into a lossy format for example the MPEG 1 or MPEG 2 Audio Layer III or MP3 format. The app can process the sampled music for example to compress the data. For example the sampled music can be processed in accordance with a hashing function appropriate for identifying music such as the MD5 Message Digest 5 Algorithm or other such algorithms. The app can use the sampled music or processed sampled music to identify the music and or characteristics of the music. For example the app can identify the name of the song currently playing and the artist that recorded the song. The music can be identified from the songs present in the user s library. The music can be identified by sending the sample of the music the processed sampled music or any other suitable information to a music identification server. In an embodiment a ten second sample of the music can be sent in an MP3 format to a music identification server. The sample of the music can be sent in an encrypted or in an unencrypted format.

The music identification server can receive the sample of music and send information about the sample of music to the app. The song information can include the song name or title an icon for example an icon associated with an album the length of the song and other information about the song. The song information can be structured or in categories such as tempo mood genre subgenre instrument density brightness hardness percussiveness key synthecity main instrument and other song information. The song information for a particular category can be a scale or rank such as a range or numeric rank or can include one or more descriptive names. For example tempo can include descriptive names such as slow mid tempo and fast. Mood can include descriptive names such as energetic melancholic relaxing happy danceable powerful fun calm slow and fast. Genre can include descriptive names such as rock country classical Latin rap dance soul electronic jazz speech pop urban world alternative ambient blues children Christian folk instrumental metal reggae singer songwriter soundtrack and unknown. Subgenre can include descriptive names such as pop country classical symphonic rock nurock classical choir pop 70tiesdisco world Bollywood urban rootsreggea world Balkanbrass urban hiphop urban dancehallreggea speech speechwithbackground classical opera classical piano electronic techno pop synthpop jazz swing rock surfbeat rock garagebeat electronic drumandbass world flamenco rock punk jazz bluenote speech speechonly and rock metal. Instrument density can include descriptive names such as full and sparse. Brightness can include descriptive names such as dark and bright. Hardness can include descriptive names such as soft intermediate and hard. Percussiveness can include descriptive names such as percussive and non percussive. Key can include descriptive names such as major and minor. Synthecity can include descriptive names such as electroacoustic acoustic and synthetic. Main instrument can include descriptive names such as organ guitar violin trumpet piano and saxophone. In an embodiment the information about the song can be determined by the app for example from the music that was sampled. In an embodiment the information about the song can also be manually entered or changed by the user. Once the music is identified a screen displayed during processing is presented as described below for .

If the music cannot be identified either by the app or by a music identification server the app can present a screen for obtaining further user direction. Referring to example elements of a screen for obtaining further user direction for the app are illustrated. The screen for obtaining further user direction can include header information as described above for the music listening screen and as illustrated in and the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and as illustrated in . The screen for obtaining further user direction can also include option selection buttons A B collectively option selection buttons . The first option selection button A or Try Again selection button when selected returns operation to the music listening screen thereby allowing the user to repeat the process of sampling the music. A second option selection button B the Enter Manually selection button when selected allows the user to manually enter information about the music. In a configuration if the app is unable to connect to a music identification server or if no network is available then the app can limit the user to manual entry of information. This configuration allows the user to continue to generate palettes by executing the app in a standalone mode.

When the user selects the second option selection button B or Enter Manually selection button the app can present a screen for manually entering a song. Referring to example elements of a screen for manually entering a song for the app are illustrated. The screen for manually entering a song can include the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and as illustrated in . The screen for manually entering a song can include header information for example header information that describes that the user is viewing a screen for manually entering a song by name and entering characteristics of the song. The screen for manually entering a song can include a song name text box . When selected the song name text box can trigger a keyboard popup window for entering the name of a song. As a user enters characters into the song name text box the song name can be autocompleted if known or checked for spelling.

The song name that is entered by the user into the song name text box becomes associated with the song information that the user enters into the song information boxes A B C collectively song information boxes . The song information boxes in various embodiments can be text boxes drop down lists list boxes combo boxes radio buttons cycle buttons or any other suitable type of control boxes or app widgets. Song information can be entered using a genre song information box A a mood song information box B a tempo song information box C and any other suitable song information box for entering song information. Example song information is described above for the music listening screen . In an embodiment the action button or Mix Now action button can be activated only once a song name is entered into the song name text box and song information is identified in one or more of song information boxes . Once the action button is activated a screen displayed during processing is presented as described below for .

In another embodiment when the music cannot be identified the sampled music can be analyzed by an algorithm to determine certain properties of the music. For example based on the tempo perceived instruments used to generate the music pattern of notes etc. an algorithm may determine the genre of a music sample such as determining that the music sample is in the musical category jazz or blues or any other recognizable genre. Such categorization can be used to determine an appropriate color palette to associate with the music when the music cannot be identified.

Referring to example elements of a screen displayed during processing for the app are illustrated. The screen displayed during processing can include the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and as illustrated in . The screen displayed during processing can include header information for example header information that indicates that the app is processing the song name and song information or other forms of audio content to determine one or more matching color palettes. The screen displayed during processing can also include a processing indicator for example an hourglass icon percentage indicator or any other suitable indicator to inform the user that the app is currently processing. The screen displayed during processing is presented when the app is determining one or more color palettes not shown see to associate with a song or the song information. The app can send the song title to a music identification server and receive song information such as genre mood and tempo as well as any other suitable information. The app can use the song title and song information to determine one or more color palettes to associate with the song and song information.

A color palette can be selected from the set of all color palettes. The set of color palettes can be generated manually or algorithmically. For example each color palette can be selected manually by a designer and stored in a lookup table. In a configuration the designer can choose a main color and the other colors of the palette can be generated by an algorithm or from known palettes. In a configuration a set of three color palettes can be generated for each combination of genre mood and tempo. The determination of which of the color palettes to present to the user can be deterministic pseudo deterministic or non deterministic. In a deterministic mode a first color palette to present to the user can be associated with a particular song or combination of song information elements and alternative color palettes can be presented as alternative color palettes as described below and as illustrated in . In a pseudo deterministic mode one or more color palettes can always be associated with a particular song or combination of song information elements however the determination of which of the color palettes to present first and in which order to present the alternative color palettes can be based on one or more additional variables. For example the first color palette selected from the set of all matching color palettes can be presented to different users in a round robin approach thereby presenting to users different color palettes from the set of all matching color palettes even if the users select the same song. In another pseudo deterministic mode the first color palette can be randomly selected from the set of all matching color palettes or selected based on a characteristic of the user such as the user s name. In a non deterministic mode the color palette can be randomly selected or the color palette can be selected based on any information available including time of day a characteristic of the user or any other suitable information. The color palettes can be stored locally on the app on the mobile computing device on a palette server or both.

Once a color palette or a set of color palettes is determined the app can display a screen for displaying the color palette . Referring to example elements of a screen for displaying a color palette for the app are illustrated. The screen for displaying a color palette can include the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and as illustrated in . The screen for displaying a color palette can include header information for example header information that indicates that the app is presenting a mix or color palette that is associated with the song name or song information. The screen for displaying a color palette can display a primary color A a secondary color B and a tertiary color C collectively a color palette . The respective sizes of the primary color A the secondary color B and the tertiary color C can be different or the same. In an embodiment the primary color A can represent a main color of the palette the secondary color B can represent a trim color to be used with the main color and the tertiary color C can represent an accent color to be used with the main and trim colors. Color palettes can include any suitable number of colors including two or more colors. In an example color palettes can be arranged for use in decorating a room in a home or office with certain colors of the color palette assigned to walls trim door windows portions of walls and so forth. In another example color palettes can be arranged for use in a color scheme for clothing carpeting automobiles consumer products and other suitable applications.

The screen for displaying a color palette can include a mix selector control for selecting between available mixes for example by including arrow buttons for cycling between color palettes . The screen for displaying a color palette can include selection buttons A B collectively selection buttons . When the first selection button A the explore the colors selection button is selected the app displays the screen for displaying members of the color palette as describe below and as illustrated in . When the second selection button B the share selection button is selected the app displays the screen for sending a color palette to social media as described below and as illustrated in . The screen for displaying a color palette can include a popup control the song information popup control that when selected triggers the app to display information about the song as described below and as illustrated in .

When the first selection button A the explore the colors selection button is selected the app displays the screen for displaying members of the color palette . Referring to example elements of a screen for displaying members of the color palette for the app are illustrated. The screen for displaying members of the color palette can include the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and as illustrated in . The screen for displaying members of the color palette can include header information for example header information that indicates that the app is presenting a mix or color palette that is associated with the song name or song information. The screen for displaying members of the color palette can include a mix selector control for selecting between available mixes for example by including arrow buttons for cycling between color palettes . The screen for displaying members of the color palette can include a selection button B the share selection button for sending a color palette to social media as described below and as illustrated in . The screen for displaying members of the color palette can display a first color name A associated with the primary color A a second color name B associated with the secondary color B and a third color name C associated with the tertiary color C. The screen for displaying members of the color palette can include a popup control the offers popup control that when selected triggers the app to display information about offers relating to products associated with the color palette or the particular brand associated with the app as described below and as illustrated in .

Referring to example elements of popup window for displaying offers for the app are illustrated. The popup window for displaying offers can include the popup control for expanding or reducing the popup window a name associated with the offer details about the offer and one or more barcodes about the offer. Other suitable information can be included in the popup window for displaying offers . In an embodiment the barcode is a standard linear barcode such as a UPC barcode for identifying the product or a barcode for providing a discount. In other embodiments the barcode can be a QR code or quick response code. The barcode can include information about the products a sale or discount hyperlinks to other information or any other suitable information. The barcode can be selectable and include a hyperlink.

Referring to example elements of a screen for sending a color palette to social media for the app are illustrated. The screen for sending a color palette to social media can include the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and as illustrated in . The screen for sending a color palette to social media can include header information for example header information that indicates that the user is going to share the palette using social media. The screen for sending a color palette to social media can include social media selector buttons for email A Facebook B Twitter C and Pinterest D collectively social media selector buttons . Other social media selector buttons can be included to send a color palette to other social media. The screen for sending a color palette to social media can include a cancel selector button to return to a previous screen without sending the color palette to social media. Additional methods of sharing saved mixes or building a sharing collections in libraries are also considered and can include additional screens similar to the screen for sending a color palette to social media and other screens in this disclosure.

Referring to example elements of social media screens are illustrated. illustrates an example email that includes a logo or trademark that identifies a particular brand or product associated with the app and a first color name A a second color name B and a third color name C associated with a color palette. The message can include a subject line a message body and a URL or Uniform Resource Locator. The URL can allow the recipient to access a web based version of the app download a copy of the app to their mobile device or can be any other suitable URL. The URL can be a shortened URL as described below for a Twitter tweet .

Referring to example elements of popup window for displaying song information for the app are illustrated. The popup window for displaying song information can include the popup control for expanding or reducing the popup window the song name details about the song and a hyperlink to a store for purchasing the song for example a hyperlink to Apple iTunes . Details about the song can include song information such as genre mood and tempo as well as other suitable information. In an embodiment the user can change the song information similarly to how the song information can be entered in the screen for manually entering a song described above and illustrated in . Other suitable information can be included in the popup window for displaying song information .

Referring to example elements of a screen for displaying saved color palettes for the app are illustrated. The screen for displaying saved color palettes can include the app name and application selections buttons as described above for the source selection screen and as illustrated in . The screen for displaying saved color palettes can include header information for example header information that indicates that the user s saved mixes are being displayed. The screen for displaying saved color palettes can include saved mixes . The mixes can include songs A B C D E F G collectively songs and icons A B C D E F G collectively icons associated with each of the songs . The icons can include artwork associated with a song or album associated with the song. The icons can include thumbnail illustrations of the color palette associated with the song. In an embodiment each of the mixes can be selected. In one embodiment selecting a song or icon causes the app to display the screen for displaying a color palette described above and illustrated in . In another embodiment selecting a song or icon causes the app to display the screen for displaying members of the color palette described above and illustrated in .

Referring now to example elements of an exemplary computing device are illustrated. A computing device can be desktop computer a server a mobile computing device such as a smartphone or any other suitable computing device as would be understood in the art. The computing device includes a processor that can be any suitable type of processing unit for example a general purpose central processing unit CPU a reduced instruction set computer RISC a processor that has a pipeline or multiple processing capability including having multiple cores a complex instruction set computer CISC a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuits ASIC a programmable logic devices PLD and a field programmable gate array FPGA among others. The computing resources can also include distributed computing devices cloud computing resources and virtual computing resources in general.

The computing device also includes one or more memories for example read only memory ROM random access memory RAM cache memory associated with the processor or other memories such as dynamic RAM DRAM static ram SRAM flash memory a removable memory card or disk a solid state drive and so forth. The computing device also includes storage media such as a storage device that can be configured to have multiple modules such as magnetic disk drives floppy drives tape drives hard drives optical drives and media magneto optical drives and media compact disk drives Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW a suitable type of Digital Versatile Disk DVD or BluRay disk and so forth. Storage media such as flash drives solid state hard drives redundant array of individual disks RAID virtual drives networked drives and other memory means including storage media on the processor or memories are also contemplated as storage devices.

The network and communication interfaces allow the computing device to communicate with other devices across a network . The network and communication interfaces can be an Ethernet interface a radio interface a telephony interface a Universal Serial Bus USB interface or any other suitable communications interface. Example communication interfaces can includes wired data transmission links such as Ethernet and TCP IP as well as PSTN communications links such as T1s or better integrated services digital network ISDN Digital Subscriber Line DSL or dialup modems that implement for example the point to point protocol PPP . The communication interface can include wireless protocols for interfacing with private or public networks . For example the network and communication interfaces and protocols can include interfaces for communicating with private wireless networks such as a WiFi network one of the IEEE 802.11x family of networks or another suitable wireless network. The network and communication interfaces can include interfaces and protocols for communicating with public wireless networks using for example wireless protocols used by cellular network providers including Code Division Multiple Access CDMA and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . A computing device can use network and communication interfaces to communicate with hardware modules such as a database or data store or one or more servers or other networked computing resources. Data can be encrypted or protected from unauthorized access.

In various configurations the computing device can include a system bus for interconnecting the various components of the computing device or the computing device can be integrated into one or more chips such as programmable logic device or application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The system bus can include a memory controller a local bus or a peripheral bus for supporting input and output devices or communication interfaces . Example input and output devices include keyboards keypads gesture or graphical input devices motion input devices touchscreen interfaces displays audio units voice recognition units vibratory devices computer mice and any other suitable user interface.

The processor and memory can include nonvolatile memory for storing computer readable instructions data data structures program modules code microcode and other software components for storing the computer readable instructions in non transitory computer readable mediums in connection with the other hardware components for carrying out the methodologies described herein. Software components can include source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code or any other suitable type of code or computer instructions implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled or interpreted programming language.

Referring now to a diagram of an exemplary system for generating and displaying color palette based on a music selection is presented. In the system a mobile device can run an application or app for generating and displaying a color palette based on a musical selection. The mobile device can send the name of a song or sampled music to a music identification server across a network for example the Internet. The music identification server can receive the song name or sampled music from the mobile device and send back song information such as genre mood and temp in addition to the song name if the song name is not known. The mobile device can send the song information and also the song name and other information such as user name or characteristics to the palette server . The palette server can use the information sent by the mobile device to determine one or more color palettes that match the information sent by the mobile device . The mobile device can display one or more of the color palettes and associated songs as mixes as described above for . The mobile device can share one or more of the mixes with other users using social media by posting or forwarding the mixes to the social media sites. In an embodiment the mobile device can determine palettes without using a palette server . In an embodiment the mobile device can send a song or sample music to the palette server the palette server can send the song or sampled music to the music identification server the music identification server can send the song information to the palette server and the palette server can send color palettes to the mobile device . In an embodiment the mobile device can be a desktop system a laptop a tablet a smartphone or another suitable computing platform whether mobile or non mobile.

Referring now to an exemplary flowchart of the operation of exemplary process for generating and displaying color palettes based on a musical selection is presented. Operation starts with start block labeled START where an application for generating and displaying color palettes based on a musical selection begins executing. Processing continues to process block where a user chooses a method of inputting a song. For example the user can select that user wants to manually enter the song information or the user can select that the users wants to use sampled audio for example using the microphone of a mobile device. Processing continues to decision block .

In decision block if the user selected manual entry of the song information then processing continues to process block otherwise processing continues to process block .

In process block the user enters a name for the song or audio. Processing continues to process block .

In process block the user enters song information such as the genre tempo and mood of the song or audio. The operations of process block and process block can be performed in any order. Processing continues to process block .

In process block the song data is generated either by accepting an input from the user or by sampling music using the microphone of the mobile device. Processing continues to process block .

In process block the song data is sent from the application to a music information server. The song data can include the name of the song or can include sampled music to be identified by the music information server. Processing continues to decision block .

In decision block if the music identification server can identify the song then processing continues to process block otherwise processing returns to process block and the user is prompted to input the song data for example by entering a song name by manually entering song information or by resampling the music using the mobile device.

In process block the music information server sends song information to the application where the song information can include one or more of the song name the genre of the song the mood of the song and the tempo of the song. Processing continues to process block .

In process block the application matches one or more color palettes to the song using the song information provided by either the user or the music information server to create a mix. Processing continues to process block .

In process block the application displays one or more of the mixes to the user. The user can optionally view multiple mixes and choose a particular mix from the one or more mixes. Processing continues to process block .

In process block the user can optionally send the mix to other users using social media. For example the user can send an email or post the mix to Facebook Twitter Pinterest or another suitable form of social media. Operation then terminates at end block labeled END.

The above descriptions of various components and methods are intended to illustrate specific examples and describe certain ways of making and using the systems disclosed and described here. These descriptions are neither intended to be nor should be taken as an exhaustive list of the possible ways in which these systems and modules can be made and used. A number of modifications including substitutions of systems and modules between or among examples and variations among combinations can be made. Those modifications and variations should be apparent to those of ordinary skill in this area after having read this document.

