---

title: Antibodies to Toso
abstract: The present invention provides methods and compositions for modulating Toso activity and treating diseases and disorders in which Toso is implicated. Such methods and compositions include the use of one or more antibodies that bind to a Toso protein or to a ligand of a Toso protein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09493561&OS=09493561&RS=09493561
owner: University Health Network
number: 09493561
owner_city: Toronto
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140702
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 842 766 filed Jul. 3 2013 the content of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Toso or Faim3 Fas Apoptotic inducing molecule 3 is a single membrane spanning cell surface receptor originally characterized through a retroviral overexpression screen in Jurkat cells a T cell leukemic line as a mediator of Fas induced apoptotic cell death Hitoshi Y. et al. Toso a cell surface specific regulator of Fas induced apoptosis in T cells. Immunity 1998. 8 4 p. 461 71 . Subsequent studies have suggested that Toso is the elusive receptor for IgM. The expression of Toso also seems to correlate with particularly aggressive forms of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or CLL. Modulation of Toso activity may also affect immune system disorders.

Accordingly the present invention provides methods and compositions for modulating Toso activity and treating diseases and disorders in which Toso is implicated.

In a further aspect the present invention provides an antibody comprising a heavy chain variable region comprising any one of SEQ ID NOs 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 53 55 57.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides an antibody comprising a heavy chain variable region having a sequence with at least about 95 sequence identity to any one of SEQ ID NOs 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 53 55 57 wherein the antibody binds Toso.

In a further aspect the present invention provides an antibody comprising a light chain variable region comprising any one of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50 52 54 56 58.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides an antibody comprising a light chain variable region having a sequence with at least about 95 sequence identity to any one of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50 52 54 56 58 wherein the antibody binds Toso.

In a further aspect the present invention provides an antibody comprising a first heavy chain CDR comprising any of the CDR1 sequences listed in Table 1 a second heavy chain CDR comprising any of the CDR2 sequences listed in Table 1 a third heavy chain CDR comprising any of the CDR3 sequences listed in Table 1 a first light chain CDR comprising any of the CDR1 sequences listed in Table 2 a second light chain CDR comprising any of the CDR2 sequences listed in Table 2 and a third light chain CDR comprising any of the CDR3 sequences listed in Table 2 wherein said antibody binds Toso.

In a still further aspect the present invention provides a nucleic acid encoding an antibody in accordance with any of the above described antibodies.

In a yet further aspect the present invention provides an expression vector that encodes an antibody in accordance with any of the above described antibodies.

In a still further aspect the present invention provides a method of making an antibody in accordance with any of the above described antibodies where the method includes the step of providing a cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding the antibody where the cell is cultured under conditions suitable for expression of the antibody.

In a yet further aspect the present invention provides methods for treating a Toso associated disease that include treating a subject in need thereof with an antibody in accordance with any of the above described antibodies

The practice of the present invention may employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques and descriptions of organic chemistry polymer technology molecular biology including recombinant techniques cell biology biochemistry and immunology which are within the skill of the art. Such conventional techniques include polymer array synthesis hybridization ligation phage display and detection of hybridization using a label. Specific illustrations of suitable techniques can be had by reference to the example herein below. However other equivalent conventional procedures can of course also be used. Such conventional techniques and descriptions can be found in standard laboratory manuals such as Vols. I IV all from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Stryer L. 1995 4th Ed. Freeman New York Gait 1984 IRL Press London Nelson and Cox 2000 3Ed. W. H. Freeman Pub. New York N.Y. and Berg et al. 2002 5Ed. W. H. Freeman Pub. New York N.Y. all of which are herein incorporated in their entirety by reference for all purposes.

Note that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a polymerase refers to one agent or mixtures of such agents and reference to the method includes reference to equivalent steps and methods known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing devices compositions formulations and methodologies which are described in the publication and which might be used in connection with the presently described invention.

Where a range of values is provided it is understood that each intervening value to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges is also encompassed within the invention subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits ranges excluding either both of those included limits are also included in the invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a more thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one of skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without one or more of these specific details. In other instances well known features and procedures well known to those skilled in the art have not been described in order to avoid obscuring the invention.

In order that the application may be more completely understood several definitions are set forth below. Such definitions are meant to encompass grammatical equivalents.

As used herein the term comprising is intended to mean that the compositions and methods include the recited elements but not excluding others. Consisting essentially of when used to define compositions and methods shall mean excluding other elements of any essential significance to the composition or method. Consisting of shall mean excluding more than trace elements of other ingredients for claimed compositions and substantial method steps. Embodiments defined by each of these transition terms are within the scope of this invention. Accordingly it is intended that the methods and compositions can include additional steps and components comprising or alternatively including steps and compositions of no significance consisting essentially of or alternatively intending only the stated method steps or compositions consisting of .

All numerical designations e.g. pH temperature time concentration and molecular weight including ranges are approximations which are varied or by increments of 0.1. It is to be understood although not always explicitly stated that all numerical designations are preceded by the term about . The term about also includes the exact value X in addition to minor increments of X such as X 0.1 or X 0.1. It also is to be understood although not always explicitly stated that the reagents described herein are merely exemplary and that equivalents of such are known in the art.

A composition may include any substance comprising an agent or compound and is also intended to encompass any combination of an agent or compound and other substances including a carrier e.g. compound or composition inert for example a detectable agent or label or active such as an adjuvant diluent binder stabilizer buffers salts lipophilic solvents preservative adjuvant or the like. Carriers also include pharmaceutical excipients and additives proteins peptides amino acids lipids and carbohydrates e.g. sugars including monosaccharides di tri tetra and oligosaccharides derivatized sugars such as alditols aldonic acids esterified sugars and the like and polysaccharides or sugar polymers which can be present singly or in combination comprising alone or in combination 1 99.99 by weight or volume. Exemplary protein excipients include serum albumin such as human serum albumin HSA recombinant human albumin rHA gelatin casein and the like. Representative amino acid antibody components which can also function in a buffering capacity include alanine glycine arginine betaine histidine glutamic acid aspartic acid cysteine lysine leucine isoleucine valine methionine phenylalanine aspartame and the like. Carbohydrate excipients are also intended within the scope of this invention examples of which include but are not limited to monosaccharides such as fructose maltose galactose glucose D mannose sorbose and the like disaccharides such as lactose sucrose trehalose cellobiose and the like polysaccharides such as raffinose melezitose maltodextrins dextrans starches and the like and alditols such as mannitol xylitol maltitol lactitol xylitol sorbitol glucitol and myoinositol.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or medium which may be used interchangeably with the term biologically compatible carrier or medium refers to reagents cells compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms that are not only compatible with the cells and other agents to be administered therapeutically but also are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers suitable for use in the present invention include liquids semi solid e.g. gels and solid materials e.g. cell scaffolds and matrices tubes sheets and other such materials as known in the art and described in greater detail herein . These semi solid and solid materials may be designed to resist degradation within the body non biodegradable or they may be designed to degrade within the body biodegradable bioerodable . A biodegradable material may further be bioresorbable or bioabsorbable i.e. it may be dissolved and absorbed into bodily fluids water soluble implants are one example or degraded and ultimately eliminated from the body either by conversion into other materials or breakdown and elimination through natural pathways.

As used herein the term patient or subject intends an animal a mammal or yet further a human patient. For the purpose of illustration only a mammal includes but is not limited to a human a simian a murine a bovine an equine a porcine or an ovine.

As used herein the term oligonucleotide or polynucleotide refers to a short polymer composed of deoxyribonucleotides ribonucleotides or any combination thereof. Oligonucleotides are generally at least about 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 or more nucleotides in length. An oligonucleotide may be used as a primer or as a probe.

The term amino acid refers to naturally occurring and synthetic amino acids as well as amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that function in a manner similar to the naturally occurring amino acids. Naturally occurring amino acids are those encoded by the genetic code as well as those amino acids that are later modified e.g. hydroxyproline carboxyglutamate and O phosphoserine. Amino acid analogs refers to compounds that have the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid i.e. an a carbon that is bound to a hydrogen a carboxyl group an amino group and an R group e.g. homoserine norleucine methionine sulfoxide methionine methyl sulfonium. Such analogs have modified R groups e.g. norleucine or modified peptide backbones but retain the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid. Amino acid mimetics refers to chemical compounds that have a structure that is different from the general chemical structure of an amino acid but that function in a manner similar to a naturally occurring amino acid.

The term isolated as used herein refers to molecules or biological or cellular materials being substantially free from other materials e.g. greater than 70 or 80 or 85 or 90 or 95 or 98 . In one aspect the term isolated refers to nucleic acid such as DNA or RNA or protein or polypeptide or cell or cellular organelle or tissue or organ separated from other DNAs or RNAs or proteins or polypeptides or cells or cellular organelles or tissues or organs respectively that are present in the natural source and which allow the manipulation of the material to achieve results not achievable where present in its native or natural state e.g. recombinant replication or manipulation by mutation. The term isolated also refers to a nucleic acid or peptide that is substantially free of cellular material viral material or culture medium when produced by recombinant DNA techniques or chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized. Moreover an isolated nucleic acid is meant to include nucleic acid fragments which are not naturally occurring as fragments and would not be found in the natural state. The term isolated is also used herein to refer to polypeptides which are isolated from other cellular proteins and is meant to encompass both purified and recombinant polypeptides e.g. with a purity greater than 70 or 80 or 85 or 90 or 95 98 or 99 . The term isolated is also used herein to refer to cells or tissues that are isolated from other cells or tissues and is meant to encompass both cultured and engineered cells or tissues.

A recombinant nucleic acid refers an artificial nucleic acid that is created by combining two or more sequences that would not normally occur together. In one embodiment it is created through the introduction of relevant DNA into an existing organismal DNA such as the plasmids of bacteria to code for or alter different traits for a specific purpose such as antibiotic resistance. A recombinant polypeptide is a polypeptide that is derived from a recombinant nucleic acid.

As used herein the term promoter refers to a nucleic acid sequence sufficient to direct transcription of a gene. Also included in the invention are those promoter elements which are sufficient to render promoter dependent gene expression controllable for cell type specific tissue specific or inducible by external signals or agents.

In some embodiments a promoter is an inducible promoter or a discrete promoter. Inducible promoters can be turned on by a chemical or a physical condition such as temperature or light. Examples of chemical promoters include without limitation alcohol regulated tetracycline regulated steroid regulated metal regulated and pathogenesis related promoters. Examples of discrete promoters can be found in for examples Wolfe et al. Molecular Endocrinology 16 3 435 49.

As used herein the term regulatory element refers to a nucleic acid sequence capable of modulating the transcription of a gene. Non limiting examples of regulatory element include promoter enhancer silencer poly adenylation signal transcription termination sequence. Regulatory element may be present 5 or 3 regions of the native gene or within an intron.

Various proteins are also disclosed herein with their GenBank Accession Numbers for their human proteins and coding sequences. However the proteins are not limited to human derived proteins having the amino acid sequences represented by the disclosed GenBank Accession Nos but may have an amino acid sequence derived from other animals particularly a warm blooded animal e.g. rat guinea pig mouse chicken rabbit pig sheep cow monkey etc. .

As used herein the term Toso FAIM3 or Fas apoptotic inhibitory molecule 3 refers to a protein having an amino acid sequence substantially identical to any of the representative Toso sequences including any and all versions of GenBank Accession Nos. NP 001135945 human isoform b NP 001180267 human isoform c NP 005440 human isoform a NP 081252 mouse or NP 001014843 rat . Suitable cDNA encoding Toso are provided at GenBank Accession Nos. NM 001142473 NM 001193338 NM 005449 NM 026976 and NM 001014843.

As used herein the term biological activity of Toso or Toso activity refers to any biological activity associated with the full length native Toso protein. In some embodiments the biological activity of Toso refers to binding to an IgM antibody. In further embodiments the biological activity of Toso refers to inhibiting CD11b or CD18 activity. In yet further embodiments the biological activity of Toso refers to increasing the activation threshold of granulocytes. Activation threshold can be measured by number of activated granulocytes from bone marrow. In further embodiments the biological activity of Toso includes the activation of dendritic cells and their ability to present antigen to T cells. In further embodiments the biological activity of Toso includes inhibition of apoptosis or enhancement of TNF signaling. In some embodiments the Toso biological activity is equivalent to the activity of a protein having an amino acid sequence represented by GenBank Accession No. NP 001135945 NP 001180267 NP 005440 NP 081252 or NP 001014843 including any and all versions of these accession numbers.

As used herein the term treating refers to administering a pharmaceutical composition for the purpose of improving the condition of a patient by reducing alleviating reversing or preventing at least one adverse effect or symptom of a disease or disorder.

As used herein the term preventing refers to identifying a subject i.e. a patient having an increased susceptibility to a disease but not yet exhibiting symptoms of the disease and administering a therapy according to the principles of this disclosure. The preventive therapy is designed to reduce the likelihood that the susceptible subject will later become symptomatic or that the disease will be delay in onset or progress more slowly than it would in the absence of the preventive therapy. A subject may be identified as having an increased likelihood of developing the disease by any appropriate method including for example by identifying a family history of the disease or other degenerative brain disorder or having one or more diagnostic markers indicative of disease or susceptibility to disease.

As used herein the term sample or test sample refers to any liquid or solid material containing nucleic acids. In suitable embodiments a test sample is obtained from a biological source i.e. a biological sample such as cells in culture or a tissue sample from an animal most preferably a human.

As used herein the term substantially identical when referring to a protein or polypeptide is meant one that has at least 80 85 90 95 or 99 sequence identity to a reference amino acid sequence. The length of comparison is preferably the full length of the polypeptide or protein but is generally at least 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 60 80 or 100 or more contiguous amino acids. A substantially identical nucleic acid is one that has at least 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence identity to a reference nucleic acid sequence. The length of comparison is preferably the full length of the nucleic acid but is generally at least 20 nucleotides 30 nucleotides 40 nucleotides 50 nucleotides 75 nucleotides 100 nucleotides 125 nucleotides or more.

As used herein an amino acid substitution or substitution refers to the replacement of an amino acid at a particular position in a starting polypeptide sequence with another amino acid. For example the substitution M23Y refers to a variant polypeptide in which the methionine at position 23 is replaced with a tyrosine.

A biological equivalent of a protein or nucleic acid refers to a protein or nucleic acid that is substantially identical to the protein or nucleic acid by amino acid or nucleic acid sequence or that has an equivalent biological activity.

As used herein the term effective amount refers to a quantity of compound e.g. an antibody or biologically active fragment thereof delivered with sufficient frequency to provide a medical benefit to the patient. In one embodiment an effective amount of a protein is an amount sufficient to treat or ameliorate a symptom of a disease.

A population of cells refers to a collection of more than one cell that is identical clonal or non identical in phenotype and or genotype.

 Substantially homogeneous describes a population of cells in which more than about 50 or alternatively more than about 60 or alternatively more than 70 or alternatively more than 75 or alternatively more than 80 or alternatively more than 85 or alternatively more than 90 or alternatively more than 95 of the cells are of the same or similar phenotype. Phenotype can be determined by a pre selected cell surface marker or other marker.

The terms autologous transfer autologous transplantation autograft and the like refer to treatments wherein the cell donor is also the recipient of the cell replacement therapy. The terms allogeneic transfer allogeneic transplantation allograft and the like refer to treatments wherein the cell donor is of the same species as the recipient of the cell replacement therapy but is not the same individual. A cell transfer in which the donor s cells and have been histocompatibly matched with a recipient is sometimes referred to as a syngeneic transfer. The terms xenogeneic transfer xenogeneic transplantation xenograft and the like refer to treatments wherein the cell donor is of a different species than the recipient of the cell replacement therapy.

As used herein an antibody includes whole antibodies and any antigen binding fragment or a single chain thereof. Thus the term antibody includes any protein or peptide containing molecule that comprises at least a portion of an immunoglobulin molecule. Examples of such include but are not limited to a complementarity determining region CDR of a heavy or light chain or a ligand binding portion thereof a heavy chain or light chain variable region a heavy chain or light chain constant region a framework FR region or any portion thereof or at least one portion of a binding protein. In general the term antibody includes any polypeptide that includes at least one constant domain including but not limited to CH1 CH2 CH3 and CL. Antibodies that find use in the present invention can take on a number of formats as described herein including traditional antibodies as well as antibody derivatives fragments and mimetics.

The antibodies can be polyclonal or monoclonal and can be isolated from any suitable biological source e.g. murine rat sheep and canine.

A monoclonal antibody is an antibody produced by a single clone of cells or a hybridoma and therefore is a single pure homogeneous type of antibody.

A hybridoma is a cell that is produced in the laboratory from the fusion of an antibody producing lymphocyte and a non antibody producing cancer cell usually a myeloma or lymphoma. A hybridoma proliferates and produces a continuous supply of a specific monoclonal antibody.

The term human antibody as used herein is intended to include antibodies having variable and constant regions derived from human germline immunoglobulin sequences. The human antibodies of the invention may include amino acid residues not encoded by human germline immunoglobulin sequences e.g. mutations introduced by random or site specific mutagenesis in vitro or by somatic mutation in vivo . However the term human antibody as used herein is not intended to include antibodies in which CDR sequences derived from the germline of another mammalian species such as a mouse have been grafted onto human framework sequences. Thus as used herein the term human antibody refers to an antibody in which substantially every part of the protein e.g. CDR framework C Cdomains e.g. C C C hinge VL VH is substantially non immunogenic in humans with only minor sequence changes or variations. Similarly antibodies designated primate monkey baboon chimpanzee etc. rodent mouse rat rabbit guinea pig hamster and the like and other mammals designate such species sub genus genus sub family family specific antibodies. Further chimeric antibodies include any combination of the above. Such changes or variations optionally and preferably retain or reduce the immunogenicity in humans or other species relative to non modified antibodies. Thus a human antibody is distinct from a chimeric or humanized antibody. It is pointed out that a human antibody can be produced by a non human animal or prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell that is capable of expressing functionally rearranged human immunoglobulin e.g. heavy chain and or light chain genes. Further when a human antibody is a single chain antibody it can comprise a linker peptide that is not found in native human antibodies. For example an Fv can comprise a linker peptide such as two to about eight glycine or other amino acid residues which connects the variable region of the heavy chain and the variable region of the light chain. Such linker peptides are considered to be of human origin.

As used herein a human antibody is derived from a particular germline sequence if the antibody is obtained from a system using human immunoglobulin sequences e.g. by immunizing a transgenic mouse carrying human immunoglobulin genes or by screening a human immunoglobulin gene library. A human antibody that is derived from a human germline immunoglobulin sequence can be identified as such by comparing the amino acid sequence of the human antibody to the amino acid sequence of human germline immunoglobulins. A selected human antibody typically is at least 90 identical in amino acids sequence to an amino acid sequence encoded by a human germline immunoglobulin gene and contains amino acid residues that identify the human antibody as being human when compared to the germline immunoglobulin amino acid sequences of other species e.g. murine germline sequences . In certain cases a human antibody may be at least 95 or even at least 96 97 98 or 99 identical in amino acid sequence to the amino acid sequence encoded by the germline immunoglobulin gene. Typically a human antibody derived from a particular human germline sequence will display no more than 10 amino acid differences from the amino acid sequence encoded by the human germline immunoglobulin gene. In certain cases the human antibody may display no more than 5 or even no more than 4 3 2 or 1 amino acid difference from the amino acid sequence encoded by the germline immunoglobulin gene.

The term recombinant human antibody as used herein includes all human antibodies that are prepared expressed created or isolated by recombinant means such as antibodies isolated from an animal e.g. a mouse that is transgenic or transchromosomal for human immunoglobulin genes or a hybridoma prepared therefrom antibodies isolated from a host cell transformed to express the antibody e.g. from a transfectoma antibodies isolated from a recombinant combinatorial human antibody library and antibodies prepared expressed created or isolated by any other means that involve splicing of human immunoglobulin gene sequences to other DNA sequences. Such recombinant human antibodies have variable and constant regions derived from human germline immunoglobulin sequences. In certain embodiments however such recombinant human antibodies can be subjected to in vitro mutagenesis or when an animal transgenic for human Ig sequences is used in vivo somatic mutagenesis and thus the amino acid sequences of the VH and VL regions of the recombinant antibodies are sequences that while derived from and related to human germline VH and VL sequences may not naturally exist within the human antibody germline repertoire in vivo. Methods to making these antibodies are described herein.

 Isotype as used herein is meant any of the subclasses of immunoglobulins defined by the chemical and antigenic characteristics of their constant regions. It should be understood that therapeutic antibodies can also comprise hybrids of isotypes and or subclasses.

The terms polyclonal antibody or polyclonal antibody composition as used herein refer to a preparation of antibodies that are derived from different B cell lines. They are a mixture of immunoglobulin molecules secreted against a specific antigen each recognizing a different epitope.

The terms monoclonal antibody or monoclonal antibody composition as used herein refer to a preparation of antibody molecules of single molecular composition. A monoclonal antibody composition displays a single binding specificity and affinity for a particular epitope.

As used herein the term label intends a directly or indirectly detectable compound or composition that is conjugated directly or indirectly to the composition to be detected e.g. N terminal histidine tags N His magnetically active isotopes e.g. Sn Sn and Sn a non radioactive isotopes such as C and N polynucleotide or protein such as an antibody so as to generate a labeled composition. The term also includes sequences conjugated to the polynucleotide that will provide a signal upon expression of the inserted sequences such as green fluorescent protein GFP and the like. The label may be detectable by itself e.g. radioisotope labels or fluorescent labels or in the case of an enzymatic label may catalyze chemical alteration of a substrate compound or composition which is detectable. The labels can be suitable for small scale detection or more suitable for high throughput screening. As such suitable labels include but are not limited to magnetically active isotopes non radioactive isotopes radioisotopes fluorochromes chemiluminescent compounds dyes and proteins including enzymes. The label may be simply detected or it may be quantified. A response that is simply detected generally comprises a response whose existence merely is confirmed whereas a response that is quantified generally comprises a response having a quantifiable e.g. numerically reportable value such as an intensity polarization and or other property. In luminescence or fluorescence assays the detectable response may be generated directly using a luminophore or fluorophore associated with an assay component actually involved in binding or indirectly using a luminophore or fluorophore associated with another e.g. reporter or indicator component.

Examples of luminescent labels that produce signals include but are not limited to bioluminescence and chemiluminescence. Detectable luminescence response generally comprises a change in or an occurrence of a luminescence signal. Suitable methods and luminophores for luminescently labeling assay components are known in the art and described for example in Haugland Richard P. 1996 Handbook of Fluorescent Probes and Research Chemicals 6ed. . Examples of luminescent probes include but are not limited to aequorin and luciferases.

Examples of suitable fluorescent labels include but are not limited to fluorescein rhodamine tetramethylrhodamine eosin erythrosin coumarin methyl coumarins pyrene Malacite green stilbene Lucifer Yellow Cascade BIue and Texas Red. Other suitable optical dyes are described in the Haugland Richard P. 1996 Handbook of Fluorescent Probes and Research Chemicals 6ed. .

In another aspect the fluorescent label is functionalized to facilitate covalent attachment to a cellular component present in or on the surface of the cell or tissue such as a cell surface marker. Suitable functional groups including but not are limited to isothiocyanate groups amino groups haloacetyl groups maleimides succinimidyl esters and sulfonyl halides all of which may be used to attach the fluorescent label to a second molecule. The choice of the functional group of the fluorescent label will depend on the site of attachment to either a linker the agent the marker or the second labeling agent.

By ADCC or antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity as used herein is meant the cell mediated reaction wherein nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc Rs recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell. ADCC is correlated with binding to Fc RIIIa increased binding to Fc RIIIa leads to an increase in ADCC activity.

By ADCP or antibody dependent cell mediated phagocytosis as used herein is meant the cell mediated reaction wherein nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc Rs recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause phagocytosis of the target cell.

By modification herein is meant an amino acid substitution insertion and or deletion in a polypeptide sequence or an alteration to a moiety chemically linked to a protein. For example a modification may be an altered carbohydrate or PEG structure attached to a protein. By amino acid modification herein is meant an amino acid substitution insertion and or deletion in a polypeptide sequence. For clarity unless otherwise noted the amino acid modification is always to an amino acid coded for by DNA e.g. the 20 amino acids that have codons in DNA and RNA.

By amino acid substitution or substitution herein is meant the replacement of an amino acid at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence with a different amino acid. In particular in some embodiments the substitution is to an amino acid that is not naturally occurring at the particular position either not naturally occurring within the organism or in any organism. For example the substitution E272Y refers to a variant polypeptide in which the glutamic acid at position 272 is replaced with tyrosine. For clarity a protein which has been engineered to change the nucleic acid coding sequence but not change the starting amino acid for example exchanging CGG encoding arginine to CGA still encoding arginine to increase host organism expression levels is not an amino acid substitution that is despite the creation of a new gene encoding the same protein if the protein has the same amino acid at the particular position that it started with it is not an amino acid substitution.

By amino acid insertion or insertion as used herein is meant the addition of an amino acid sequence at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence. For example 233E or 233E designates an insertion of glutamic acid after position 233 and before position 234. Additionally 233ADE or A233ADE designates an insertion of AlaAspGlu after position 233 and before position 234.

By amino acid deletion or deletion as used herein is meant the removal of an amino acid sequence at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence. For example E233 or E233 designates a deletion of glutamic acid at position 233. Additionally EDA233 or EDA233 designates a deletion of the sequence GluAspAla that begins at position 233.

By variant protein or protein variant or variant as used herein is meant a protein that differs from that of a parent protein by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. Protein variant may refer to the protein itself a composition comprising the protein or the amino sequence that encodes it. Preferably the protein variant has at least one amino acid modification compared to the parent protein e.g. from about one to about seventy amino acid modifications and preferably from about one to about five amino acid modifications compared to the parent. In some embodiments the parent polypeptide for example an Fc parent polypeptide is a human wild type sequence such as the Fc region from IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 or IgG4 although human sequences with variants can also serve as parent polypeptides . The protein variant sequence herein will preferably possess at least about 80 identity with a parent protein sequence and most preferably at least about 90 identity more preferably at least about 95 98 99 identity. Variant protein can refer to the variant protein itself compositions comprising the protein variant or the DNA sequence that encodes it. Accordingly by antibody variant or variant antibody as used herein is meant an antibody that differs from a parent antibody by virtue of at least one amino acid modification IgG variant or variant IgG as used herein is meant an antibody that differs from a parent IgG again in many cases from a human IgG sequence by virtue of at least one amino acid modification and immunoglobulin variant or variant immunoglobulin as used herein is meant an immunoglobulin sequence that differs from that of a parent immunoglobulin sequence by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. Fc variant or variant Fc as used herein is meant a protein comprising an amino acid modification in an Fc domain. The Fc variants of the present invention are defined according to the amino acid modifications that compose them. Thus for example N434S or 434S is an Fc variant with the substitution serine at position 434 relative to the parent Fc polypeptide wherein the numbering is according to the EU index. Likewise M428L N434S defines an Fc variant with the substitutions M428L and N434S relative to the parent Fc polypeptide. The identity of the WT amino acid may be unspecified in which case the aforementioned variant is referred to as 428L 434S. It is noted that the order in which substitutions are provided is arbitrary that is to say that for example 428L 434S is the same Fc variant as M428L N434S and so on. For all positions discussed in the present invention that relate to antibodies unless otherwise noted amino acid position numbering is according to the EU index. The EU index or EU index as in Kabat or EU numbering scheme refers to the numbering of the EU antibody Edelman et al. 1969 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 63 78 85 hereby entirely incorporated by reference. The modification can be an addition deletion or substitution. Substitutions can include naturally occurring amino acids and in some cases synthetic amino acids. Examples include U.S. Pat. No. 6 586 207 WO 98 48032 WO 03 073238 U52004 0214988A1 WO 05 35727A2 WO 05 74524A2 J. W. Chin et al. 2002 Journal of the American Chemical Society 124 9026 9027 J. W. Chin P. G. Schultz 2002 Chem Bio Chem 11 1135 1137 J. W. Chin et al. 2002 PICAS United States of America 99 11020 11024 and L. Wang P. G. Schultz 2002 Chem. 1 10 all entirely incorporated by reference.

As used herein protein herein is meant at least two covalently attached amino acids which includes proteins polypeptides oligopeptides and peptides. The peptidyl group may comprise naturally occurring amino acids and peptide bonds or synthetic peptidomimetic structures i.e. analogs such as peptoids see Simon et al. PNAS USA 89 20 9367 1992 entirely incorporated by reference . The amino acids may either be naturally occurring or synthetic e.g. not an amino acid that is coded for by DNA as will be appreciated by those in the art. For example homo phenylalanine citrulline ornithine and noreleucine are considered synthetic amino acids for the purposes of the invention and both D and L R or S configured amino acids may be utilized. The variants of the present invention may comprise modifications that include the use of synthetic amino acids incorporated using for example the technologies developed by Schultz and colleagues including but not limited to methods described by Cropp Shultz 2004 Trends Genet. 20 12 625 30 Anderson et al. 2004 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 2 7566 71 Zhang et al. 2003 303 5656 371 3 and Chin et al. 2003 Science 301 5635 964 7 all entirely incorporated by reference. In addition polypeptides may include synthetic derivatization of one or more side chains or termini glycosylation PEGylation circular permutation cyclization linkers to other molecules fusion to proteins or protein domains and addition of peptide tags or labels.

By residue as used herein is meant a position in a protein and its associated amino acid identity. For example Asparagine 297 in IgG1 also referred to as Asn297 or N297 is a residue at position 297 in the human antibody IgG1.

By Fab or Fab region as used herein is meant the polypeptide that comprises the VH CH1 VL and CL immunoglobulin domains. Fab may refer to this region in isolation or this region in the context of a full length antibody antibody fragment or Fab fusion protein. By Fv or Fv fragment or Fv region as used herein is meant a polypeptide that comprises the VL and VH domains of a single antibody.

By non naturally occurring modification as used herein is meant an amino acid modification that is not isotypic. For example because none of the IgGs comprise a serine at position 434 the substitution 434S in IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 or IgG4 or hybrids thereof is considered a non naturally occurring modification.

By effector function as used herein is meant a biochemical event that results from the interaction of an antibody Fc region with an Fc receptor or ligand. Effector functions include but are not limited to ADCC ADCP and CDC.

By parent polypeptide as used herein is meant a starting polypeptide that is subsequently modified to generate a variant. The parent polypeptide may be a naturally occurring polypeptide or a variant or engineered version of a naturally occurring polypeptide. Parent polypeptide may refer to the polypeptide itself compositions that comprise the parent polypeptide or the amino acid sequence that encodes it. Accordingly by parent immunoglobulin as used herein is meant an unmodified immunoglobulin polypeptide that is modified to generate a variant and by parent antibody as used herein is meant an unmodified antibody that is modified to generate a variant antibody. It should be noted that parent antibody includes known commercial recombinantly produced antibodies as outlined below.

By position as used herein is meant a location in the sequence of a protein. Positions may be numbered sequentially or according to an established format for example the EU index for antibody numbering.

By target antigen as used herein is meant the molecule that is bound specifically by the variable region of a given antibody. A target antigen may be a protein such as the Toso protein carbohydrate lipid or other chemical compound.

By variable region as used herein is meant the region of an immunoglobulin that comprises one or more Ig domains substantially encoded by any of the V.kappa. V.lamda. and or VH genes that make up the kappa lambda and heavy chain immunoglobulin genetic loci respectively.

By wild type or WT herein is meant an amino acid sequence or a nucleotide sequence that is found in nature including allelic variations. A WT protein has an amino acid sequence or a nucleotide sequence that has not been intentionally modified.

Although the present invention is described primarily with reference to specific embodiments it is also envisioned that other embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading the present disclosure and it is intended that such embodiments be contained within the present inventive methods.

The present invention is directed to methods and compositions for modulating the activity of the Toso protein which is also interchangeably referred to herein as Toso or Toso receptor or Faim3 or FCMR . Methods and compositions of the present invention may be used in accordance with and in some embodiments in combination with other known methods of modulating activity of the Toso protein such as those described in for example U.S. Ser. No. 13 831 031 filed on Mar. 14 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes and in particular for any disclosure claims figures or other teachings related to methods and compositions for modulating activity of the Toso protein.

In some embodiments the methods and compositions of the invention increase activity of the Toso protein. In other embodiments the methods and compositions of the invention inhibit activity of the Toso protein.

In certain aspects compositions for modulating the activity of the Toso protein include agents that bind to the Toso protein or to a ligand of the Toso protein. In further embodiments the compositions of the invention include an antibody that binds to the Toso protein or to a ligand of the Toso protein.

The present invention is further directed to methods of treating disorders and diseases by administering an antibody that modulates the activity of Toso in a subject. As will be discussed in further detail herein antibodies of the invention can be used to treat subjects suffering from without limitation Type II diabetes an autoimmune disorder including without limitation Type 1 diabetes multiple sclerosis or rheumatoid arthritis asthma allergy chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD hyper IgM syndrome CLL lupus or a neutrophilia associated disorder including without limitation neutropenia severe congenital neutropenia cyclical neutropenia antibody mediated neutropenia reticular dysgenesis leukocyte adhesion deficiency familiar myeloproliferative disease chronic myelogenous leukemia familiar cold urticaria and leukocytosis and chronic granulomatous disease .

Antibodies of the invention modulate Toso activity. In some embodiments antibodies of the invention increase Toso activity. In other embodiments antibodies of the invention decrease Toso activity. In some embodiments antibodies of the invention bind directly to the Toso protein. In other embodiments antibodies of the invention bind to a ligand of the Toso protein. In further embodiments antibodies of the invention bind or otherwise interact with an intermediate protein or other molecule and indirectly affect Toso activity through that interaction with the intermediate protein or other molecule.

Methods of preparing antibodies are generally known in the art. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 350 discusses Toso antibodies and methods for preparing the same and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes and in particular for all teachings related to antibodies directed to the Toso protein.

In some embodiments antibodies of the invention are identified by phage display screening using methods known in the art and described in further detail herein. Such methods will in further embodiments include producing a fully human antibody by cloning the results of the phage display screening into an expression vector for human IgG.

Antibodies that find use in the present invention can take on a number of formats as described herein including traditional antibodies as well as antibody derivatives fragments and mimetics described below. In general the term antibody includes any polypeptide that includes at least one constant domain including but not limited to CH1 CH2 CH3 and CL.

Traditional antibody structural units typically comprise a tetramer. Each tetramer is typically composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains each pair having one light typically having a molecular weight of about 25 kDa and one heavy chain typically having a molecular weight of about 50 70 kDa . Human light chains are classified as kappa and lambda light chains. The present invention is directed to the IgG class which has several subclasses including but not limited to IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4. Thus isotype as used herein is meant any of the subclasses of immunoglobulins defined by the chemical and antigenic characteristics of their constant regions. It should be understood that therapeutic antibodies can also comprise hybrids of isotypes and or subclasses.

The amino terminal portion of each chain includes a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily responsible for antigen recognition generally referred to in the art and herein as the Fv domain or Fv region . In the variable region three loops are gathered for each of the V domains of the heavy chain and light chain to form an antigen binding site. Each of the loops is referred to as a complementarity determining region hereinafter referred to as a CDR in which the variation in the amino acid sequence is most significant. Variable refers to the fact that certain segments of the variable region differ extensively in sequence among antibodies. Variability within the variable region is not evenly distributed. Instead the V regions consist of relatively invariant stretches called framework regions FRs of 15 30 amino acids separated by shorter regions of extreme variability called hypervariable regions that are each 9 15 amino acids long or longer.

Each VH and VL is composed of three hypervariable regions complementary determining regions CDRs and four FRs arranged from amino terminus to carboxy terminus in the following order FR1 CDR1 FR2 CDR2 FR3 CDR3 FR4.

The hypervariable region generally encompasses amino acid residues from about amino acid residues 24 34 LCDR1 L denotes light chain 50 56 LCDR2 and 89 97 LCDR3 in the light chain variable region and around about 31 35B HCDR1 H denotes heavy chain 50 65 HCDR2 and 95 102 HCDR3 in the heavy chain variable region Kabat et al. SEQUENCES OF PROTEINS OF IMMUNOLOGICAL INTEREST 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1991 and or those residues forming a hypervariable loop e.g. residues 26 32 LCDR1 50 52 LCDR2 and 91 96 LCDR3 in the light chain variable region and 26 32 HCDR1 53 55 HCDR2 and 96 101 HCDR3 in the heavy chain variable region Chothia and Lesk 1987 J. Mol. Biol. 196 901 917. Specific CDRs of the invention are described below.

Throughout the present specification the Kabat numbering system is generally used when referring to a residue in the variable domain approximately residues 1 107 of the light chain variable region and residues 1 113 of the heavy chain variable region e.g Kabat et al. supra 1991 .

The CDRs contribute to the formation of the antigen binding or more specifically epitope binding site of antibodies. Epitope refers to a determinant that interacts with a specific antigen binding site in the variable region of an antibody molecule known as a paratope. Epitopes are groupings of molecules such as amino acids or sugar side chains and usually have specific structural characteristics as well as specific charge characteristics. A single antigen may have more than one epitope.

The epitope may comprise amino acid residues directly involved in the binding also called immunodominant component of the epitope and other amino acid residues which are not directly involved in the binding such as amino acid residues which are effectively blocked by the specifically antigen binding peptide in other words the amino acid residue is within the footprint of the specifically antigen binding peptide.

Epitopes may be either conformational or linear. A conformational epitope is produced by spatially juxtaposed amino acids from different segments of the linear polypeptide chain. A linear epitope is one produced by adjacent amino acid residues in a polypeptide chain. Conformational and nonconformational epitopes may be distinguished in that the binding to the former but not the latter is lost in the presence of denaturing solvents.

An epitope typically includes at least 3 and more usually at least 5 or 8 10 amino acids in a unique spatial conformation. Antibodies that recognize the same epitope can be verified in a simple immunoassay showing the ability of one antibody to block the binding of another antibody to a target antigen for example binning. 

In some embodiments the antibodies are full length. By full length antibody herein is meant the structure that constitutes the natural biological form of an antibody including variable and constant regions including one or more modifications as outlined herein.

Alternatively the antibodies can be a variety of structures including but not limited to antibody fragments monoclonal antibodies bispecific antibodies minibodies domain antibodies synthetic antibodies sometimes referred to herein as antibody mimetics chimeric antibodies humanized antibodies antibody fusions sometimes referred to as antibody conjugates and fragments of each respectively.

In one embodiment the antibody is an antibody fragment. Of particular interest are antibodies that comprise Fc regions Fc fusions and the constant region of the heavy chain CH1 hinge CH2 CH3 again also including constant heavy region fusions.

Specific antibody fragments include but are not limited to i the Fab fragment consisting of VL VH CL and CH1 domains ii the Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CH1 domains iii the Fv fragment consisting of the VL and VH domains of a single antibody iv the dAb fragment Ward et al. 1989 Nature 341 544 546 entirely incorporated by reference which consists of a single variable v isolated CDR regions vi F ab 2 fragments a bivalent fragment comprising two linked Fab fragments vii single chain Fv molecules scFv wherein a VH domain and a VL domain are linked by a peptide linker which allows the two domains to associate to form an antigen binding site Bird et al. 1988 Science 242 423 426 Huston et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85 5879 5883 entirely incorporated by reference viii bispecific single chain Fv WO 03 11161 hereby incorporated by reference and ix diabodies or triabodies multivalent or multispecific fragments constructed by gene fusion Tomlinson et. al. 2000 Methods Enzymol. 326 461 479 WO94 13804 Holliger et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90 6444 6448 all entirely incorporated by reference . The antibody fragments may be modified. For example the molecules may be stabilized by the incorporation of disulphide bridges linking the VH and VL domains Reiter et al. 1996 Nature Biotech. 14 1239 1245 entirely incorporated by reference .

In some embodiments the scaffold components can be a mixture from different species. As such if the protein is an antibody such antibody may be a chimeric antibody and or a humanized antibody. In general both chimeric antibodies and humanized antibodies refer to antibodies that combine regions from more than one species. For example chimeric antibodies traditionally comprise variable region s from a mouse or rat in some cases and the constant region s from a human. Humanized antibodies generally refer to non human antibodies that have had the variable domain framework regions swapped for sequences found in human antibodies. Generally in a humanized antibody the entire antibody except the CDRs is encoded by a polynucleotide of human origin or is identical to such an antibody except within its CDRs. The CDRs some or all of which are encoded by nucleic acids originating in a non human organism are grafted into the beta sheet framework of a human antibody variable region to create an antibody the specificity of which is determined by the engrafted CDRs. The creation of such antibodies is described in e.g. WO 92 11018 Jones 1986 Nature 321 522 525 Verhoeyen et al. 1988 Science 239 1534 1536 all entirely incorporated by reference. Backmutation of selected acceptor framework residues to the corresponding donor residues is often required to regain affinity that is lost in the initial grafted construct U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 530 101 5 585 089 5 693 761 5 693 762 6 180 370 5 859 205 5 821 337 6 054 297 6 407 213 all entirely incorporated by reference . The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region typically that of a human immunoglobulin and thus will typically comprise a human Fc region. Humanized antibodies can also be generated using mice with a genetically engineered immune system. Roque et al. 2004 Biotechnol. Prog. 20 639 654 entirely incorporated by reference. A variety of techniques and methods for humanizing and reshaping non human antibodies are well known in the art See Tsurushita Vasquez 2004 Humanization of Monoclonal Antibodies Molecular Biology of B Cells 533 545 Elsevier Science USA and references cited therein all entirely incorporated by reference . Humanization methods include but are not limited to methods described in Jones et al. 1986 Nature 321 522 525 Riechmann et al. 1988 Nature 332 323 329 Verhoeyen et al. 1988 Science 239 1534 1536 Queen et al. 1989 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 86 10029 33 He et al. 1998 J. Immunol. 160 1029 1035 Carter et al. 1992 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 89 4285 9 Presta et al. 1997 Cancer Res. 57 20 4593 9 Gorman et al. 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 4181 4185 O Connor et al. 1998 Protein Eng 11 321 8 all entirely incorporated by reference. Humanization or other methods of reducing the immunogenicity of nonhuman antibody variable regions may include resurfacing methods as described for example in Roguska et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 969 973 entirely incorporated by reference. In one embodiment the parent antibody has been affinity matured as is known in the art. Structure based methods may be employed for humanization and affinity maturation for example as described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 004 590. Selection based methods may be employed to humanize and or affinity mature antibody variable regions including but not limited to methods described in Wu et al. 1999 J. Mol. Biol. 294 151 162 Baca et al. 1997 J. Biol. Chem. 272 16 10678 10684 Rosok et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 37 22611 22618 Rader et al. 1998 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 8910 8915 Krauss et al. 2003 Protein Engineering 16 10 753 759 all entirely incorporated by reference. Other humanization methods may involve the grafting of only parts of the CDRs including but not limited to methods described in U.S. Ser. No. 09 810 510 Tan et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 1119 1125 De Pascalis et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 3076 3084 all entirely incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment the antibody is a minibody. Minibodies are minimized antibody like proteins comprising a scFv joined to a CH3 domain. Hu et al. 1996 Cancer Res. 56 3055 3061 entirely incorporated by reference. In some cases the scFv can be joined to the Fc region and may include some or the entire hinge region.

As used herein the term Toso antibody refers to any antibody that binds to Toso or binds to a ligand of Toso including antibodies comprising any of the sequences described herein and variants thereof.

In certain aspects Toso antibodies of the invention include antibodies comprising CDR sequences as provided in and below in Tables 1 and 2.

In further embodiments Toso antibodies of the invention comprise variants of the CDR sequences as provided in . In general variants can include any number of modifications as long as the function of the protein is still present as described herein. That is in the case of amino acid variants generated with the CDRs of any of the antibodies comprising sequences as provided in for example the antibody should still specifically bind to Toso or a ligand of Toso. Similarly if amino acid variants are generated with the Fc region for example the variant antibodies should maintain the required receptor binding functions for the particular application or indication of the antibody.

However in general from 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 amino acid substitutions are generally utilized as often the goal is to alter function with a minimal number of modifications. In some cases there are from 1 to 5 modifications with from 1 2 1 3 and 1 4 also finding use in many embodiments.

In some embodiments one or more amino acid modifications are made in one or more of the CDRs of the Toso antibodies of the invention as provided in and Tables 1 and 2. In general only 1 or 2 or 3 amino acids are substituted in any single CDR and generally no more than from 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 changes are made within a set of CDRs. However it should be appreciated that any combination of no substitutions 1 2 or 3 substitutions in any CDR for a particular antibody can be independently and optionally combined with any other substitution.

In some cases amino acid modifications in the CDRs are referred to as affinity maturation . An affinity matured antibody is one having one or more alteration s in one or more CDRs which results in an improvement in the affinity of the antibody for antigen compared to a parent antibody which does not possess those alteration s . In some cases although rare it may be desirable to decrease the affinity of an antibody to its antigen but this is generally not preferred.

Affinity maturation can be done to increase the binding affinity of the antibody for the antigen by at least about 10 to 50 100 150 or more or from 1 to 5 fold as compared to the parent antibody. Preferred affinity matured antibodies will have nanomolar or even picomolar affinities for the target antigen. Affinity matured antibodies are produced by known procedures. See for example Marks et al. 1992 Biotechnology 10 779 783 that describes affinity maturation by variable heavy chain VH and variable light chain VL domain shuffling. Random mutagenesis of CDR and or framework residues is described in Barbas et al. 1994 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci USA 91 3809 3813 Shier et al. 1995 Gene 169 147 155 Yelton et al. 1995 J. Immunol. 155 1994 2004 Jackson et al. 1995 J. Immunol. 154 7 3310 9 and Hawkins et al 1992 J. Mol. Biol. 226 889 896 for example.

Alternatively amino acid modifications can be made in one or more of the CDRs of the antibodies of the invention that are silent e.g. that do not significantly alter the affinity of the antibody for the antigen. These can be made for a number of reasons including optimizing expression as can be done for the nucleic acids encoding the antibodies of the invention .

Thus included within the definition of the CDRs and antibodies of the invention are variant CDRs and antibodies that is the antibodies of the invention can include amino acid modifications in one or more of the CDRs of antibodies 3kr7 k 2 5 5 7k5 5 7k1 5 7k6 5 15kL24 5 15kL26 5 15kL30 k 4.15 k 4.16 k 4.18 k 4.20 k 4.17 L 1 13 1R2kr3 K3 22 k 2 48 K3 24 5 15L28 5 15kL19 k 5.10 k 2 42 1R2kr30 K1 L1 k 2 32 L 8.2 L 8.6 L 8.17 for which sequences of the heavy and light chains are provided in . In addition amino acid modifications can also independently and optionally be made in any region outside the CDRs including framework and constant regions.

In some embodiments the Toso antibodies also referred to herein as anti Toso or anti Toso antibodies of the invention are composed of a variant Fc domain. As is known in the art the Fc region of an antibody interacts with a number of Fc receptors and ligands imparting an array of important functional capabilities referred to as effector functions. These Fc receptors include but are not limited to in humans Fc RI CD64 including isoforms Fc RIa Fc RIb and Fc RIc Fc RII CD32 including isoforms Fc RIIa including allotypes H131 and R131 Fc RIIb including Fc RIIb 1 and Fc RIIb 2 and Fc RIIc and Fc RIII CD16 including isoforms Fc RIIIa including allotypes V158 and F158 correlated to antibody dependent cell cytotoxicity ADCC and Fc RIIIb including allotypes Fc RIIIb NA1 and Fc RIIIb NA2 FcRn the neonatal receptor C1q complement protein involved in complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC and FcRn the neonatal receptor involved in serum half life . Suitable modifications can be made at one or more positions as is generally outlined for example in US 2004 013210 US 2005 0054832 US 2006 0024298 US 2006 0121032 US 2006 0235208 US 2007 0148170 U.S. Pat. No. 6 737 056 7 670 600 6 086 875 all of which are expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety and in particular for specific amino acid substitutions that increase binding to Fc receptors.

In further aspects Toso antibodies of the invention comprise any of the full length heavy or light chain sequences provided in . In further embodiments Toso antibodies of the invention comprise sequences with a sequence identity of about 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 and 100 identity to any of the full length heavy or light chain sequences provided in .

In still further aspects Toso antibodies of the invention comprise consensus sequences that encompass CDR sequences as provided in and Tables 1 and 2. Such consensus sequences can be identified through alignments of the CDR sequences and through the use of tools available on public databases.

In exemplary embodiments Toso antibodies of the invention comprise a heavy chain CDR1 comprising the following consensus sequence G X1 TFS X2 Y X3 wherein X1 is F D or Y X2 is N D or S and X3 is A G W or N.

In further embodiments Toso antibodies of the invention comprise a heavy chain CDR2 comprising the following consensus sequence I X1 PSG X2 T X3 wherein X1 is S D or Y X2 is G or D and X3 is T or P.

In still further embodiments Toso antibodies of the invention comprise a light chain CDR1 comprising the following consensus sequence Q S X1 S X2 Y wherein X1 is V or I and X2 is S D or N.

In still further embodiments Toso antibodies of the invention comprise a light chain CDR3 comprising the following consensus sequence QQ X1 Y X2 TP X3 T wherein X1 is Y R or S X2 is N G T S or I and X3 is L I E or C.

As will be appreciated although methods are known in the art for identifying antibodies to a particular protein not all antibodies identified in such methods will bind to the protein of interest. Thus one aspect of the present invention is the identification of antibodies that bind to Toso as distinguished from antibodies that do not bind to Toso see for example the heavy and light chain sequences of the antibodies of which are from antibodies that do bind to Toso as opposed to the heavy and light chain sequences of the antibodies in which do not bind to Toso.

In further aspects the present invention provides an expression vector encoding an antibody or protein according to any of the sequences described herein and in accordance with any of the sequences provided in .

In still further aspects the present invention provides a method of making an antibody or protein according to any of the sequences described herein and in accordance with any of the sequences provided in the method comprising providing a cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding that antibody or protein where the cell is cultured under conditions suitable for expression of the antibody or protein.

In still further aspects the present invention provides a method of treating a Toso associated disease the method comprising treating a subject in need thereof with an antibody or protein according to any of the sequences described herein and in accordance with any of the sequences provided in .

In yet further aspects the antibodies of the invention find use in a variety of applications including diagnosis of Toso related diseases and treatment thereof.

In addition to any of the modifications and variants outlined above other modifications can be made. For example the molecules may be stabilized by the incorporation of disulphide bridges linking the VH and VL domains Reiter et al. 1996 Nature Biotech. 14 1239 1245 entirely incorporated by reference for all purposes and in particular for all teachings regarding modifications of molecules including antibodies . In addition there are a variety of covalent modifications of antibodies that can be made as outlined below.

Covalent modifications of antibodies are included within the scope of this invention and are generally but not always done post translationally. For example several types of covalent modifications of the antibody are introduced into the molecule by reacting specific amino acid residues of the antibody with an organic derivatizing agent that is capable of reacting with selected side chains or the N or C terminal residues.

Cysteinyl residues most commonly are reacted with haloacetates and corresponding amines such as chloroacetic acid or chloroacetamide to give carboxymethyl or carboxyamidomethyl derivatives. Cysteinyl residues may also be derivatized by reaction with bromotrifluoroacetone bromo 5 imidozoyl propionic acid chloroacetyl phosphate N alkylmaleimides 3 nitro 2 pyridyl disulfide methyl 2 pyridyl disulfide p chloromercuribenzoate 2 chloromercuri 4 nitrophenol or chloro 7 nitrobenzo 2 oxa 1 3 diazole and the like.

In addition modifications at cysteines are particularly useful in antibody drug conjugate ADC applications further described below. In some embodiments the constant region of the antibodies can be engineered to contain one or more cysteines that are particularly thiol reactive so as to allow more specific and controlled placement of the drug moiety. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 521 541 incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

Histidyl residues are derivatized by reaction with diethylpyrocarbonate at pH 5.5 7.0 because this agent is relatively specific for the histidyl side chain. Para bromophenacyl bromide also is useful the reaction is preferably performed in 0.1M sodium cacodylate at pH 6.0.

Lysinyl and amino terminal residues are reacted with succinic or other carboxylic acid anhydrides. Derivatization with these agents has the effect of reversing the charge of the lysinyl residues. Other suitable reagents for derivatizing alpha amino containing residues include imidoesters such as methyl picolinimidate pyridoxal phosphate pyridoxal chloroborohydride trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid O methylisourea 2 4 pentanedione and transaminase catalyzed reaction with glyoxylate.

Arginyl residues are modified by reaction with one or several conventional reagents among them phenylglyoxal 2 3 butanedione 1 2 cyclohexanedione and ninhydrin. Derivatization of arginine residues requires that the reaction be performed in alkaline conditions because of the high pKa of the guanidine functional group. Furthermore these reagents may react with the groups of lysine as well as the arginine epsilon amino group.

The specific modification of tyrosyl residues may be made with particular interest in introducing spectral labels into tyrosyl residues by reaction with aromatic diazonium compounds or tetranitromethane. Most commonly N acetylimidizole and tetranitromethane are used to form 0 acetyl tyrosyl species and 3 nitro derivatives respectively. Tyrosyl residues are iodinated using 1251 or 1311 to prepare labeled proteins for use in radioimmunoassay the chloramine T method described above being suitable.

Carboxyl side groups aspartyl or glutamyl are selectively modified by reaction with carbodiimides R N C N R where R and R are optionally different alkyl groups such as 1 cyclohexyl 3 2 morpholinyl 4 ethyl carbodiimide or 1 ethyl 3 4 azonia 4 4 dimethylpentyl carbodiimide. Furthermore aspartyl and glutamyl residues are converted to asparaginyl and glutaminyl residues by reaction with ammonium ions.

Derivatization with bifunctional agents is useful for crosslinking antibodies to a water insoluble support matrix or surface for use in a variety of methods in addition to methods described below. Commonly used crosslinking agents include e.g. 1 1 bis diazoacetyl 2 phenylethane glutaraldehyde N hydroxysuccinimide esters for example esters with 4 azidosalicylic acid homobifunctional imidoesters including disuccinimidyl esters such as 3 3 dithiobis succinimidylpropionate and bifunctional maleimides such as bis N maleimido 1 8 octane. Derivatizing agents such as methyl 3 p azidophenyl dithio propioimidate yield photoactivatable intermediates that are capable of forming crosslinks in the presence of light. Alternatively reactive water insoluble matrices such as cynomolgusogen bromide activated carbohydrates and the reactive substrates described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 969 287 3 691 016 4 195 128 4 247 642 4 229 537 and 4 330 440 all entirely incorporated by reference are employed for protein immobilization.

Glutaminyl and asparaginyl residues are frequently deamidated to the corresponding glutamyl and aspartyl residues respectively. Alternatively these residues are deamidated under mildly acidic conditions. Either form of these residues falls within the scope of this invention.

Other modifications include hydroxylation of proline and lysine phosphorylation of hydroxyl groups of seryl or threonyl residues methylation of the amino groups of lysine arginine and histidine side chains T. E. Creighton Proteins Structure and Molecular Properties W. H. Freeman Co. San Francisco pp. 79 86 1983 entirely incorporated by reference acetylation of the N terminal amine and amidation of any C terminal carboxyl group.

In addition as will be appreciated by those in the art labels including fluorescent enzymatic magnetic radioactive etc. can all be added to the antibodies as well as the other compositions of the invention .

Another type of covalent modification is alterations in glycosylation. In another embodiment the antibodies disclosed herein can be modified to include one or more engineered glycoforms. By engineered glycoform as used herein is meant a carbohydrate composition that is covalently attached to the antibody wherein said carbohydrate composition differs chemically from that of a parent antibody. Engineered glycoforms may be useful for a variety of purposes including but not limited to enhancing or reducing effector function.

Engineered glycoforms may be generated by a variety of methods known in the art Umana et al. 1999 Nat Biotechnol 17 176 180 Davies et al. 2001 Biotechnol Bioeng 74 288 294 Shields et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 26733 26740 Shinkawa et al. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 3466 3473 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 684 U.S. Ser. No. 10 277 370 U.S. Ser. No. 10 113 929 PCT WO 00 61739A1 PCT WO 01 29246A1 PCT WO 02 31140A1 PCT WO 02 30954A1 all entirely incorporated by reference Potelligent technology Biowa Inc. Princeton N.J. GlycoMAb glycosylation engineering technology Glycart Biotechnology AG Zurich Switzerland . Many of these techniques are based on controlling the level of fucosylated and or bisecting oligosaccharides that are covalently attached to the Fc region for example by expressing an IgG in various organisms or cell lines engineered or otherwise for example Lec 13 CHO cells or rat hybridoma YB2 0 cells by regulating enzymes involved in the glycosylation pathway for example FUT8 1 6 fucosyltranserase and or 1 4 N acetylglucosaminyltransferase III GnTIII or by modifying carbohydrate s after the IgG has been expressed. For example the sugar engineered antibody or SEA technology of Seattle Genetics functions by adding modified saccharides that inhibit fucosylation during production see for example 20090317869 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Engineered glycoform typically refers to the different carbohydrate or oligosaccharide thus an antibody can include an engineered glycoform.

Alternatively engineered glycoform may refer to the IgG variant that comprises the different carbohydrate or oligosaccharide. As is known in the art glycosylation patterns can depend on both the sequence of the protein e.g. the presence or absence of particular glycosylation amino acid residues discussed below or the host cell or organism in which the protein is produced. Particular expression systems are discussed below.

Glycosylation of polypeptides is typically either N linked or O linked. N linked refers to the attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the side chain of an asparagine residue. The tri peptide sequences asparagine X serine and asparagine X threonine where X is any amino acid except proline are the recognition sequences for enzymatic attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the asparagine side chain. Thus the presence of either of these tri peptide sequences in a polypeptide creates a potential glycosylation site. O linked glycosylation refers to the attachment of one of the sugars N acetylgalactosamine galactose or xylose to a hydroxyamino acid most commonly serine or threonine although 5 hydroxyproline or 5 hydroxylysine may also be used.

Addition of glycosylation sites to the antibody is conveniently accomplished by altering the amino acid sequence such that it contains one or more of the above described tri peptide sequences for N linked glycosylation sites . The alteration may also be made by the addition of or substitution by one or more serine or threonine residues to the starting sequence for O linked glycosylation sites . For ease the antibody amino acid sequence is preferably altered through changes at the DNA level particularly by mutating the DNA encoding the target polypeptide at preselected bases such that codons are generated that will translate into the desired amino acids.

Another means of increasing the number of carbohydrate moieties on the antibody is by chemical or enzymatic coupling of glycosides to the protein. These procedures are advantageous in that they do not require production of the protein in a host cell that has glycosylation capabilities for N and O linked glycosylation. Depending on the coupling mode used the sugar s may be attached to a arginine and histidine b free carboxyl groups c free sulfhydryl groups such as those of cysteine d free hydroxyl groups such as those of serine threonine or hydroxyproline e aromatic residues such as those of phenylalanine tyrosine or tryptophan or f the amide group of glutamine. These methods are described in WO 87 05330 and in Aplin and Wriston 1981 CRC Crit. Rev. Biochem. pp. 259 306 both entirely incorporated by reference.

Removal of carbohydrate moieties present on the starting antibody e.g. post translationally may be accomplished chemically or enzymatically. Chemical deglycosylation requires exposure of the protein to the compound trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or an equivalent compound. This treatment results in the cleavage of most or all sugars except the linking sugar N acetylglucosamine or N acetylgalactosamine while leaving the polypeptide intact. Chemical deglycosylation is described by Hakimuddin et al. 1987 Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 259 52 and by Edge et al. 1981 Anal. Biochem. 118 131 both entirely incorporated by reference. Enzymatic cleavage of carbohydrate moieties on polypeptides can be achieved by the use of a variety of endo and exo glycosidases as described by Thotakura et al. 1987 Meth. Enzymol. 138 350 entirely incorporated by reference. Glycosylation at potential glycosylation sites may be prevented by the use of the compound tunicamycin as described by Duskin et al. 1982 J. Biol. Chem. 257 3105 entirely incorporated by reference. Tunicamycin blocks the formation of protein N glycoside linkages.

Another type of covalent modification of the antibody comprises linking the antibody to various non proteinaceous polymers including but not limited to various polyols such as polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol or polyoxyalkylenes in the manner set forth in for example 2005 2006 PEG Catalog from Nektar Therapeutics available at the Nektar website U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 640 835 4 496 689 4 301 144 4 670 417 4 791 192 or 4 179 337 all entirely incorporated by reference. In addition as is known in the art amino acid substitutions may be made in various positions within the antibody to facilitate the addition of polymers such as PEG. See for example U.S. Publication No. 2005 0114037A1 entirely incorporated by reference.

In one aspect the present invention is directed to methods of modulating Toso activity. In one embodiment methods of modulating Toso activity comprise inhibiting Toso activity. In other embodiments methods of modulating Toso activity comprise increasing Toso activity.

In some embodiments methods of the present invention involve directly modulating Toso activity. In an exemplary embodiment such methods include applying an agent that binds to Toso such as an antibody.

In further embodiments Toso activity is modulated by a combination of mechanisms for example by administering a composition comprising an agent that binds to Toso in combination with a composition comprising an agent that binds to cognate ligands of Toso or with a second agent that binds to Toso. In an exemplary embodiment such a combination may include without limitation a Toso antibody and a soluble Toso protein such as the soluble Toso protein described in U.S. Ser. No. 13 831 031 filed on Mar. 14 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes and in particular for any disclosure claims figures or other teachings related to a soluble Toso protein.

As will be appreciated methods of modulating Toso activity can include the use of any of the compositions described herein in any combination including an antibody comprising any one or more of SEQ ID NOs. 1 62 as well as any variants or modifications thereof as described herein.

In one aspect and in accordance with any of the above the present invention provides methods of treating disorders by treating subjects in need thereof with a composition that modulates Toso activity where in preferred embodiments that composition includes one or more Toso antibodies.

In a specific embodiment and in accordance with any of the above the present invention provides methods of treating disorders by treating subjects in need thereof with a composition that includes a Toso antibody. Without being limited by theory one potential mechanism by which the Toso antibody is an effective treatment for these disorders is through modulating Toso activity. In certain embodiments methods of treating disorders in accordance with the present invention includes administering a therapeutically effective amount of any of the Toso antibodies described herein including antibodies comprising any one or more of SEQ ID NOs 1 62 or any variants thereof. In further embodiments the soluble Toso proteins used to treat disorders including diabetes multiple sclerosis asthma and cancer include an antibody comprising a heavy or light chain sequence with about 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 identity to any one of SEQ ID NOs 1 28. Such antibodies may further be modified in accordance with the methods described herein including chemical modifications for the treatment of any of the disorders described herein.

In further aspects the present invention is directed to methods of treating disorders and diseases by administering a Toso antibody or variant thereof to a subject. Antibodies of the invention can be used to treat subjects suffering from without limitation an autoimmune disorder including without limitation Type 1 diabetes multiple sclerosis or rheumatoid arthritis Type 2 diabetes asthma allergy chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD hyper IgM syndrome lupus cancer or a neutrophilia associated disorder including without limitation neutropenia severe congenital neutropenia cyclical neutropenia antibody mediated neutropenia reticular dysgenesis leukocyte adhesion deficiency familiar myeloproliferative disease chronic myelogenous leukemia familiar cold urticaria and leukocytosis and chronic granulomatous disease . As will be appreciated any of the Toso antibodies described herein singly or in any combination can be used to treat any of these disorders or diseases.

As discussed above in some embodiments soluble Toso proteins of the invention are used to treat cancer. In further embodiments methods of treating cancer in accordance with the invention include methods of inhibiting tumor invasion and or metastasis by modulating Toso activity. In exemplary embodiments compositions of the invention are used to treat any one of the group of an adenocarcinoma a leukemia a lymphoma a melanoma a myeloma a sarcoma or a teratocarcinoma in subjects in need thereof. In further embodiments compositions of the invention are used to treat subjects suffering from a cancer in one or more of adrenal gland bladder bone bone marrow brain breast cervix gall bladder ganglia gastrointestinal tract heart kidney liver lung muscle ovary pancreas parathyroid penis prostate salivary glands skin spleen testis thymus thyroid or uterus.

Peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs were obtained from donated and commercially available blood samples. PBMCs were separated using Ficoll Paque PLUS GE Healthcare . Total RNA was then isolated from the separated PBMCs using Trizol and mRNA was then purified from the Total RNA using Dynabeads mRNA Purification Kit for mRNA Purification from Total RNA Preps Ambion .

First strand cDNA synthesis from the mRNA was conducted using SuperScript III First Strand Synthesis System for RT PCR Invitrogen . The cDNA library was pooled and the concentration measured.

Variable kappa lambda and gamma chain genes were amplified separately using 60 90 ng of cDNA as template and 2.5 l each of the provided constant and available region DNA primer set 1 F2000 Progen 25 l of 2 terra PCR buffer 1 l of terra polymerase mix at a total volume of 50 l. PCR conditions 95 C. for 30 sec denatureation 55 C. 1 min annealing and 75 C. for 1 min extension total 30 cycles. At the beginning of the first cycle the reaction mixture was incubated at 95 C. for 3 min and at the end of the last cycle incubated at 75 C. for 5 min.

To introduce restriction sites PCRs were performed in a total of 50 l containing 1 l of the PCR product of variable gene kappa lambda and gamma chain genes were used as templates respectively 2.5 l each of the provided constant and variable region DNA primer set 2 F2000 Progen 25 l of 2 terra PCR buffer 1 l of terra polymerase mix. PCR conditions 95 C. for 30 sec denaturation 57 C. for 1 min annealing and 75 C. for 1 min extension total 14 cycles. At the beginning of the first cycle incubation at 95 C. for 3 min and at the end of the last cycle incubation at 75 C. for 5 min. The PCR product was purified using gel DNA extraction kit Clontech . The purified kappa lambda and gamma DNA respectively were pooled.

Light chain DNA was cloned into phagemid vector pSEX81 by digesting 10 g phagemid vector pSEX81 Progen by adding 25 l of Buffer H 6 l of NotI 40 u l and 0.5 l of RNase A 10 g at a total volume of 224 l mix and incubating for 8 min at 37 C. then adding 20 l of MluI 10 u l incubated for 6 minutes at 37 C. Following that alkaline phosphatase CIP was added and incubation continued for 15 minutes at 37 C. Then 0.25 l of 0.5M pH8.0 EDTA was added followed by incubation for 20 min at 65 C. The mixture was run out on a gel and the gel band containing the MluI NotI pSEX81 fragment was cut and extracted using a gel DNA extraction kit. 1.5 g of the pooled kappa and the pooled lambda chain PCR products respectively were then digested by adding 7.5 l of buffer H 0.9 l of NotI 40 u l incubating for 20 min at 37 C. and then adding 3 l of MluI 10 u l followed by further incubation for 40 minutes at 37 C. A 1.5 agarose gel was run with the reaction products and the band at 400 bp was cut and purified using a gel DNA extraction kit. The digested vector pSEX81 and insert kappa or lambda variable chain genes were ligated using a molar ratio between 1 1 and 1 3. The reaction mixture included 50 ng DNA 1 U of T4 ligase ligation buffer and HO to a final volume of 15 l. Overnight incubation at 16 C. was followed by precipitation of the DNA by adding 1 10 volume of 3M sodium acetate 20 g glycogen 2.5 volume of absolute ethanol. Incubation for 1.5 hour at 20 C. was followed by sedimenting of the precipitate by centrifugation for 30 minutes at 13 000 rpm. The pellet was washed with 80 ethanol at least twice and then the pellet was allowed to dry at room temperature. The dried pellet was resuspended in 2 5 l H2O.

Heavy chain DNA was then cloned into the pSEX81 vectors containing the light chain DNA by digesting 10 g of light chain containing vectors kappa pSEX81 and lambda pSEX81 respectively with 10 l of HindIII 10 u l 25 l of Buffer H 0.5 l of RNAse A 10 g in a total volume 230 l incubating for 20 min at 37 C. then adding 10 l of NcoI 10 u l then incubating 90 minutes at 37 C. The remaining procedures for digesting the vectors are the same as described above. For digesting the heavy chain insert 1 g of the pooled gamma chain PCR products was digested with 7.5 ul of 10 buffer H 2.7 ul of HindIII 10 u ul 4 ul of NcoI 10 u ul at a total volume of 75 l followed by incubation for 4 hours at 37 C. and then by incubation for 20 min at 65 C. The digested DNA was purified using a gel DNA extraction kit. Ligation and precipitation of the DNA was completed as described above.

Library stocks were created by 1.5 l of one ligation reaction was used for the electroporation of 40 l electrocompetent XL blue Stratagene . Each transformation of the ligated DNA library was plated onto SOB GA agar plates and incubated 30 C. overnight. 6 ml 2 YT GA medium was added to each plate and the bacteria were scraped into the medium. The cells were pooled and made into glycerol stocks.

An inoculated culture was grown at 37 C. with shaking at 250 rpm until an AOf 0.1 was reached. M13K07 helper phage was added and then the culture was incubated for 15 minutes at 37 C. without shaking then 1 hour at 37 C. with shaking at 250 rpm. Cells were pelleted for 10 min at 1500 g and then resuspended in 400 ml of 2 YT AK medium. The suspension was grown overnight at 30 C. with shaking at 250 rpm. The culture was spun and phage was then precipitated using a PEG solution. Phage was titerated. Glycerol stocks could be made or the libraries could be used directly for panning.

Two wells in a nunc 96 well plate were coated with 200 l well 100 g ml of purified Toso Fc in PBS two wells were coated with 200 l of 100 g ml rhIgG Fc Sino Biological Inc. 200 l of 5 milk PBS MPBS was added to another 2 wells without antigen and the plate was incubated overnight at 4 C.

0.6 ml of 10pfu ml phages was removed from the na ve libraries to a 1.5 ml tubes protein G beads were added to the tubes and then tubes were incubated on a rotary for overnight at 4 C.

The Toso Fc coated wells were emptied the next morning and washed 3 times with PBST and block with 250 ul of 5 MPBS followed by incubation for 2 hours at room temperature.

The rhIgG Fc Sino Biological Inc. coated wells were emptied. The phage protein G beads solution was centrifuged and 100 l supernatant was transferred to each of the two rhIgG Fc coated wells. 100 ug ml rhIgG Fc 100 l well was added Sino Biological Inc. and incubated at room temperature for 1 hour.

The non protein coated wells were emptied and the phage solution was transferred to non protein coated wells separately and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature.

The blocking buffer was removed from the Toso Fc coated wells and then washed several times with PBST. The 200 l phage solution was transferred to the Toso Fc coated wells and incubated for 1.5 hours at room temperature.

The Toso Fc coated wells were emptied and washed several times with PBST. The phage was eluted by adding 200 l 100 mM triethylamine to each of the two wells follow by 10 minutes of incubation.

The eluted phage was transferred to 2 1.5 ml tubes containing 800 ul of 1M Tris HCl pH7.5 to neutralize the pH.

2 10 ul of eluted phage was used to do titration. The remaining eluted phage was used to infect 10 ml fresh TG1 cells OD 0.4 . 200 ul of this sample was spread on a 2 YT agar plate containing 100 ul ml of ampicillin and 1 glucose grown overnight at 32 C. The remaining infected cells were incubated at 37 C. with shaking at 250 rpm for 1 hour following which the volume was increased to 110 ml with 2 YT medium containing 100 ug ml amp followed by incubation at 37 C. with shaking at 250 rpm.

M13KO7 helper phages 100 l of 10pfu were added to the infected culture and grown at 37 C. also. Kanamycin was added to the culture at a final concentration of 50 g ml. This culture was incubated overnight at 37 C. with shaking at 250 rpm for the next round of panning.

Although various aspects of this technology have been described above with a certain degree of particularity or with reference to one or more individual aspects those skilled in the art could make numerous alterations to the disclosed aspects without departing from the spirit or scope of the technology hereof. Since many aspects can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the presently described technology the appropriate scope resides in the claims hereinafter appended. Other aspects are therefore contemplated. Furthermore it should be understood that any operations may be performed in any order unless explicitly claimed otherwise or a specific order is inherently necessitated by the claim language. It is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative only of particular aspects and are not limiting to the embodiments shown. Unless otherwise clear from the context or expressly stated any concentration values provided herein are generally given in terms of admixture values or percentages without regard to any conversion that occurs upon or following addition of the particular component of the mixture. To the extent not already expressly incorporated herein all published references and patent documents referred to in this disclosure are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes. Changes in detail or structure may be made without departing from the basic elements of the present technology as defined in the following claims.

