---

title: Systems and methods for providing targeted advertising and content delivery to mobile devices
abstract: Systems and methods are described for providing targeted content delivery, including advertising, to mobile devices. A content organization and distribution system may be configured to receive content from a plurality of publishers and provide targeted content to a plurality of users having mobile devices, where the mobile devices are connected to the content organization and distribution system through a plurality of carriers. The provided content may be based on one or more user customization criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449334&OS=09449334&RS=09449334
owner: Verve Wireless Inc.
number: 09449334
owner_city: Encinitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141013
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 956 169 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING TARGETED ADVERTISING AND CONTENT DELIVERY TO MOBILE DEVICES filed Jul. 31 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 863 178 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 163 780 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING TARGETED ADVERTISING AND CONTENT DELIVERY TO MOBILE DEVICES filed Jun. 27 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 510 773 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 946 677 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING TARGETED ADVERTISING AND CONTENT DELIVERY TO MOBILE DEVICES filed Jun. 27 2007 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates generally to the field of the mobile Internet and associated content delivery. More particularly but not exclusively this invention relates to systems and methods for providing content delivery including advertising from publishers and their associated advertisers via the mobile Internet including providing micro advertising based on user tailored criteria as well as by user location location based information also denoted herein as LBS and temporal information that may be device specific and tailored to a specific network e.g. 3G 4G and the like . The invention also relates to systems and methods for enabling content publishers to provide targeted advertising and other types of content to mobile users independently of the user s particular wireless carrier particular mobile device or over the air OTA provider.

Providers of goods and services have as a key goal the ability to identify and target the right customers in the right fashion. The holy grail of advertising is a one to one relationship between the marketer and the consumer. Ideally this would be done by selecting the right customer in the right place at the right time and tailoring advertising or other content to that customer to minimize cost and maximize efficiency. Marketers desire to deliver their message only to customers who are interested and receptive with the message personalized to the particular customer. This problem is particularly acute for smaller advertisers who may have only limited advertising budgets and may desire to target only a small and or selective group of customers.

Traditional advertising media has for a number of reasons provided limited ability to achieve these goals. For example much traditional advertising has been focused on providing large scale brute force marketing. Television advertising typically targets general populations with only the limited possibility of tailoring based on particular audience demographics time of day or subject matter. This approach remains relatively coarse in targeting desirable customers and is typically quite expensive. Likewise print media such as newspapers and magazines target general audiences with limited potential for focusing on potential customers who are the right customers for particular content products or services. Focusing can be done based on the publication s subject matter article positioning markets served or other focusing criteria however targeting is still typically coarse inefficient and potentially costly with little or no ability to personalize content presentation or implement behavioral targeting.

The advent of the Internet has introduced a new era in marketing and advertising. Using the Internet advertisers are now able to enhance content delivery using means such as contextual targeting message customization easy and immediate response methods more accurate performance measurement performance based billing as well as limited ability to target based on geography. These approaches can make advertising more efficient and focused and potentially allow for better target customization. For example companies like Google and Yahoo have been successful at providing online advertising however their success is limited by the user s query search request keywords and the like . Google s ad sense service is based on contextual ads but their analysis is based on web page content only.

The traditional Internet is still however largely limited to fixed locations i.e. places where a user s desktop or portable computer can be operated in a static fashion since computers are rarely carried by users while being operational and connected to the Internet. Moreover computers are typically not truly personal devices because they are often shared with others.

Mobile phones however are truly personalized devices that tend to be on connected to wireless networks and in the user s possession at most times. This has led to the rapid growth and proliferation of mobile devices that combine characteristics of traditional mobile telephony with Internet capabilities.

Consequently it is anticipated that the next step in the evolution of advertising will likely be focused on the mobile web and truly portable devices such as web enabled phones personal digital assistants PDAs and similar devices. These devices and their associated wireless carrier services open the possibility for new more efficient marketing and advertising methods wherein content providers can target customers in a much more efficient granular fashion and messages can be presented in a personalized fashion only to users who desire such content. Despite this promise there are multiple carriers using different and or proprietary systems that make it difficult for advertisers to target all potential users without engaging separately with these multiple carriers and navigating their various interfaces and requirements. Accordingly there is a need in the art for improved systems and methods for providing targeted advertising and other content to mobile devices.

The present invention relates generally to facilitating providing content from publishers to users based on user targeted criteria. The content may include user tailored news images videos advertisements or other types of content that can be delivered to a fixed or mobile device.

In one aspect embodiments of the present invention relate to a content organization and distribution system including a first interface module disposed to interface to a plurality of content providers so as to receive provided content from the content providers a second interface module disposed to provide a plurality of interfaces to a corresponding plurality of carriers to provide selected content to the plurality of carriers a database in which is stored the provided content the provided content including a plurality of sets of content associated with the plurality of content providers and a plurality of sets of information associated with ones of a corresponding plurality of users of ones of the plurality of carriers and a processing module configured to select from the plurality of sets of content a first set of content associated with a first of the plurality of content providers and configure at least a portion of said first set of content to be delivered to a first user served by a first of the plurality of carriers wherein the first set of content is selected based at least in part on a set of information associated with the first user.

In another aspect embodiments of the present invention relate to an advertisement provisioning system including a first interface module disposed to interface to one or more local advertisement providers to receive local advertising content a second interface module disposed to interface to ones of a plurality of third party advertisement providers to receive third party advertising content a third interface module disposed to provide ones of a plurality of interfaces to ones of a corresponding plurality of carriers and a processing module configured to receive a request for content from a first device associated with a first user wherein the first device is configured to communicate with a first carrier of the plurality of carriers select an advertisement from one of the local advertisement providers or the third party advertisement providers and format the selected advertisement for delivery to the first device based at least in part on a set of device capabilities associated with the first device.

In another aspect embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of providing content including receiving ones of a plurality of sets of content from ones of a plurality of content providers storing the plurality of sets of content in a database receiving a request to provide content to a first user device configured to communicate with a first carrier and selecting a first portion of content from a first set of content included among the plurality of sets of content for delivery to the first user device where the selecting is based at least in part on a first user customization criteria associated with a first user of the first user device.

In another aspect embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of selecting user tailored content for delivery to a device including receiving from a first device associated with a first user a first message having a first header the first device being configured to communicate with a first carrier wherein the first header includes first URL information and first device type information determining a first device type associated with the first device based on the first device type information extracting a first template from a database the first template being configured for presentation of content on the first device based on the first device type selecting a first set of content for delivery to the first device said first set of content selected based at least in part on a set of user customization criteria associated with the first user and incorporating the first set of content into the first template to create a set of first user customized content.

Additional aspects of the present invention are further described below in conjunction with the drawings.

The present invention relates generally to the field of the mobile Internet and associated content delivery including advertising. More particularly but not exclusively this invention relates to systems and methods for providing content delivery from publishers and their associated advertisers via the mobile Internet including providing micro advertising based on user tailored criteria as well as by user location location based information also denoted herein as LBS and temporal information. Targeting on the platform may be based on geo targeting contextual targeting behavioral targeting zone targeting bandwidth targeting language targeting portal targeting domain and IP targeting content targeting time date targeting such as hour of the day day of the week as well as other targeting criteria. Content publishers are enabled to provide targeted advertising and other content to mobile users independently of the user s particular wireless carrier operator or other over the air OTA provider. Relevant content and local advertising is provided to mobile users and local advertisers are provided access to users interested in specific local information at relevant times.

In one or more embodiments aspects of the present invention may be described below with respect to a particular implementation provided by a company known as Verve Wireless. These embodiments may describe associated systems components and functionality as a Verve System or Verve components or functionality for purposes of brevity and convenience. It is noted that the invention is not so limited and is described in this content merely for purposes of convenience not limitation.

Traditional local media content publishers use to enjoy direct relationships with local customers that enabled the publishers to charge advertisers significantly high advertising rates to reach these customers. Local newspapers magazines radio and television all enjoyed strong customer connections and advertising relationships. However with the Internet customers were suddenly able to receive similar content from many sources and began to enjoy the ability to determine what content to receive and when to receive it completely turning the old media consumption model on its head. Large web companies like Google Yahoo and eBay built solutions that met consumers on demand requirements. Traditional media did not respond to these new competitors initially or effectively thus allowing them to grow to significant positions in the marketplace. These large web companies offered better solutions for consumers and became the main focus area for advertisers because of the significant consumer usage and reach they offered. The paradox is that the large web companies were delivering the content created by traditional and local media to consumers thus building their businesses on the back of the industry.

Due to significant loss in revenue and customers traditional media is starting to react. Ultimately they have assets and capabilities that can never be matched by Internet companies. These are the creation of content the sale of local advertising and local brands. The mobile web offers the ability for publishers and advertisers to connect directly one to one with consumers in the local market place. Mobile offers the ability to communicate and transact with individuals. The medium is by it very nature local and as such local media traditional media already have huge competitive advantages versus international minded web companies. However local media need to partner and work together so they can drive leverage and ultimately margins with distributors and advertisers. A local property with 50 000 users cannot negotiate with carriers or advertising agencies. However 2000 local publishers with 2 million customers and national reach can compete with and negotiate favorable terms with any entity. Embodiments of the present invention are configured to address this need by facilitating direct connection and content delivery to consumers aggregation of users and properties maximum profitability and new business models for local media so that local media can compete for and win consumers in the new On Demand world.

As the mobile Internet develops it is likely to increasingly be driven by local content such as locally oriented personalized advertising. For example local content of interest to mobile device owners may consist of content and information associated with local news local events locally provided goods and services as well as associated advertising and the like. At the same time industry predictions suggest that by 2009 most consumers will have broadband enabled mobile devices 3G devices with data capabilities up to 500 kbps with location identification technology accurate to 10 meters or better. These capabilities make mobile devices attractive to advertisers if they can selectively target customers within the appropriate location with appropriate needs interests at the right time. For example a restaurant owner may want to drive customer interest by targeting interested mobile users within a certain distance for example 1 mile and during a certain time such as lunchtime between 11 am and 1 pm by providing a discount coupon or other incentive to receptive potential customers.

This approach present problems however when an advertiser has to deal with multiple carriers to access their respective customers and has little or no knowledge of the customer s personal characteristics or interests. For example as of the time of filing of this application there are four primary mobile carriers Sprint Verizon AT T T Mobile in the United States. In order to reach the broadest potential market advertisers would typically need to engage separately with each of these carriers to reach their respective subscriber bases except possibly with off deck solutions however these approaches will not be as valuable from an advertising revenue perspective . Also each mobile carrier typically has a separate database containing similar information but with different types of access. In addition many carriers are now partnering with preferred ad delivery partners for example Verizon with Third Screen Media and Sprint with Enpocket . These ad delivery partners are developing their own in house technology to handle wireless advertising which requires that advertisers become familiar with each of their respective ad delivery technologies. It is one goal of the present invention to hide these differences from users to provide more seamless integrated access.

Advertisers typically drive their content to users either directly or through content publishers or advertising agencies. One particular category of interest is that of local publishers. Local publishers include local content providers such as small newspapers magazine publishers or other similar content providers who wish to promulgate content of interest to a small population of interest or within a local community for example a small town newspaper or community newspaper within a larger city may wish to reach only users within a limited geographic area as well as larger entities owning multiple local publishers. Local advertisers commonly distribute advertising and content through local publishers. It is noted that as used herein the term advertiser refers to an individual or entity that desires distribution of their content such as information promotions advertisements or other content to potential customers or others who may desire receipt of their content. Advertisers publishers and other content providers may also be grouped generically as a category denoted herein as content providers as shown for example in . A local advertiser is typically a local or regional store business or other entity that may be interested in targeting a local market. National advertisers are typically larger national companies that are interested in attracting business throughout the country. In some cases national advertisers may be interested in assisting local advertisers for example a national advertiser such as Budweiser may be interested in driving sales to a local advertiser such as a restaurant or bar . In a typical relationship the end user with a mobile device also denoted herein as a consumer or user is looking for trusted information and content such as products services reviews discounts customer desired or targeted advertisements and the like. The publishers due to their brands own such information and have established relationships with local advertisers like a local store or service provider such as a dry cleaner in the neighborhood. The advertiser wishes to target the consumer with relevant content desired by the consumer.

The local advertising market is one of particular interest. It has been estimated that there are more than 8 000 local publishers in the United States alone and 30 000 or more worldwide. These local publishers may wish to distribute content to users with mobile devices from one or more of the individuals or businesses who advertise in their print editions web editions or via other publications or media. They may also benefit from receiving information about ad tracking and performance monitoring and reporting. For these publishers to maximize value and provide the most relevant content they need to be able to access and partner with multiple mobile carriers who have the ability to provide location data customer demographics distribution promotion messaging services and the necessary network connections to their users mobile devices.

Likewise it is advantageous for wireless carriers to embrace local publishers because their customers want and will seek local personalized content targeted to them based on their interests location as well as in some cases time of day or other parameters. At the same time the carriers will have difficulty capturing these local markets without providing local publishers and advertisers a means to avoid engaging in relationships with multiple carriers in order to capture the desired users. In addition carriers who are in constant aggressive competition with each other have little motivation to share access to their networks or customer bases with other carriers. This presents opportunities for third parties to interact directly with publishers and advertisers in a common way while also providing interfaces to deliver content through multiple carriers based on each carrier s unique interfaces without requiring the publishers or advertisers to be knowledgeable about these interfaces.

In addition to considering mobile advertising from the advertiser publisher s and carrier s perspective it is also helpful to consider the user s perspective. Despite the growth in mobile content delivery mobile device capabilities and service capabilities and costs vary widely. Bandwidth is generally precious and download speeds vary necessitating limiting the size quantity of content delivered. Device support for various screen sizes resolutions fonts and the like also vary widely embedded media player capabilities are not consistent and there is a wide mix of user interfaces bandwidths and complexity in current mobile technology. Likewise because of the small size of most mobile devices text entry capability is often limited and cumbersome making responses difficult and mobile browser functions are typically limited. For example mobile browsers typically cannot execute scripts and similar functions and many different mobile browsers having varying features and functions exist on the market today.

Because mobile display screens are typically small the advertising itself should not be disruptive. This necessitates relying on the ad s relevancy rather than large text flashing graphics or other in your face tactics. Also carriers are sensitive to subscriber and service churn and will ultimately want to control content delivered over their networks. Since the mobile phone is a personal device users will be more sensitive to privacy concerns and content providers and advertisers must also be sensitive to use of user profiling and desire to opt out of receiving content. This suggests providing mechanisms for allowing users to opt out as well as for maintaining user privacy and anonymity if desired.

Despite these concerns it is clear that mobile phones offer some unique advantages over other modes of Internet content delivery such as via computers. Since a mobile phone is a personal device the probability that requests coming from a particular phone are being made by the same user is high. In addition it is also probable that the same user is making all or most requests from the same device. Also with the assistance of current and developing location technologies real time knowledge of users locations makes location based services much more attractive than previously used IP based geo targeting. This allows for more direct and granular contacts with users where a user s location relative to an advertiser s products or services is important thus making the advertiser s content immediately relevant and potentially compelling. Also although mobile display screens are typically small which may limit their presentation capabilities the small size also provides a focus for users attention so that content can be easily digested.

Consequently information about users interests may be used in conjunction with new mobile technology to give advertisers extremely precise targeting of users allowing content including advertising to be sent only to people who find it relevant. For example a user may listen to a downloaded Bob Dylan song and purchase books about Bob Dylan ringtones or tickets from a classified advertisement. This information could then be provided to a centralized management system where it may be combined with geographic network device and temporal information to provide micro targeting of relevant additional content and advertising to the user i.e. allowing the system to become the last mile for advertisers publishers to provide highly focused content delivery . In addition bandwidth characteristics may be obtained allowing determination of the type of content a device supports. For example some devices may be capable of supporting only text or banners whereas others may be capable of receiving a trailer or videos. Knowledge of device capabilities enables providing device specific optimized content provisioning.

A mobile content management and distribution system also denoted herein as a Mobile Dashboard configured to address the above issues as well as others can provide benefits to advertisers publishers carriers mobile device users as well as others.

Embodiments of the present invention address these and other problems by providing content providers with among other features a carrier agnostic interface designed to eliminate the need to deal with multiple wireless carriers in different ways as well as identification and collection of personal characteristics of users to help content providers target the right customers. Such personalization information may be combined with temporal geographic and other user information to further assist advertisers in targeting customers. Content may be delivered to users in a format appropriate to their particular mobile devices and networks based on the above and other characteristics and criteria. Users may also be provided with means for participating in the mobile Internet by creating sites tailored to their personal interests i.e. a user blog or personalized web page . These sites may for example contain information from trusted publishers along with user supplied information such as user interests and comments to implement a form of social networking for media companies.

Embodiments of the inventive system may comprise features including providing all necessary connections and agreements to deliver create i.e. sponsored SMS MMS etc. and receive data content and advertising between carriers and publishers accounting systems for tracking all exchanges of advertising and reports on revenue shares and necessary distribution and reporting i.e. for specific campaign measurement a local content gateway allowing carriers to offer content and advertising from all advertisers ad agencies and publishers irrespective of size location or technological capabilities. Exemplary embodiments may include a full suite of mobile publishing and advertising tools systems and vertical applications for publishers who need or can benefit from them.

Attention is now directed to which illustrates a high level system view of an embodiment of a mobile content system according to aspects of the present invention. As illustrated in content providers are provided one or more interfaces to a mobile content organization and distribution system also denoted herein for brevity as a content distribution system or merely system . Content providers may include local and national advertisers providing content content as used herein may include various content provided to users as well as advertising directly or indirectly to content distribution system . Content may also be provided through one or more content publishers such as local publishers and or through advertising agencies and or through other third party content providers .

In an exemplary embodiment in accordance with content publishers are the owners of the content. The content typically includes content items such as news clips and stories reviews such as product reviews services reviews such as restaurant reviews and or other reviews of products and services breaking news images image galleries stories advertisements videos and the like. The content publishers have relationships with local advertisers and or national advertisers . In addition third party content providers may be included to re sell content to publishers and or distribute content through their own applications. Third party content providers have relationships with ad agencies which have relationships with national advertisers . In addition third party providers may have direct relationships with national advertisers . Local advertisers and national advertisers can have advertisements stored on one or more of their own or others local servers and or on one or more ad database servers and or or other databases not shown . These ad database servers may be located internally to system and or externally as shown in

Content distribution system may comprise one or more modules to provide functionality related to content creation uploading and downloading management user selection and other features and functions as described and illustrated herein with respect to advertising and content delivery. These modules may comprise hardware software and or hardware software combination configured to implement the varied functionality described and illustrated herein. Module components may include one or more computer systems including computer processors servers memory or other storage devices interface devices peripheral devices displays operating systems application programs and or other computer systems programs or associated devices.

Content publishers may interface with content distribution system through one or more interfaces to one or more importer modules . Interfaces may be configured to communicate via HTTP FTP or other types of communication mechanisms such as are known or developed in the art. The importer modules may be configured to provide access to one or more databases as is further illustrated in . Likewise third party content providers may also interface with content distribution system through one or more interfaces to one or more importer modules . As shown in publishers or third party content providers can provide publisher data stored on one or more servers or other data storage media to one or more Verve platform databases through interfaces and import module . Acceptable formats of communication between the system and publishers may include a variety of formats such as CSV format RSS format Atom format or other formats known or developed in the art. Format configuration may be facilitated by administrative functions such as are provided by a mobile dashboard module as shown in . In addition content retrieval may be automated on a regular or non regular basis in conjunction with a scheduler .

In addition local advertisers national advertisers and or ad agencies may be provided with one or more interfaces to a Verve ad management network module . Ad management module is configured to select and serve targeted ads to users . This functionality may also be denoted herein as AdCel functionality. Selection is typically done to satisfy one or user customization criteria related to the user such as providing an appropriate ad for a specific user based on a specific device and interest at an appropriate time and location. Any or all of these criteria may be used to generate the particular ad. Additional details regarding embodiments of ad selection and targeting are further described with respect to . In general AdCell management is configurable by a publisher using administration functions of the mobile dashboard module as shown in

System may also include one or more content and presentation modules configured to extract appropriate content from one or more databases reformat it according to requirements such as user device capabilities user selections or preferences or other criteria and facilitate sending it to the user s device through the associated carrier and or through other network providers and or through third party content delivery . It is noted that modules and are provided for purposes of explanation not limitation and other modular configurations implementing the same or similar functionality may alternately be used.

Interfaces and may be configured to allow content providers to access content distribution system create content for distribution provide content or other information to content distribution system receive content and information from content distribution system allow publishers to configure and control advertising and content distribution management campaigns as well as provide connectivity interfaces GUIs monitoring reporting accounting and other features between content providers and content distribution system . Content distribution system is provided in part to facilitate connectivity to content providers and therefore as features and functions are added content providers will automatically be provided with the feature updates. It is noted that while in some embodiments content distribution system is configured as a standalone system in other embodiments the features and functionality of content distribution system may be integrated into content providers Content Management Systems CMS so that it appears as a single unified system from the providers perspective.

Content distribution system also provides one or more interfaces to one or more mobile carriers or other network providers . As used herein other network providers may include any of various non carrier providers such as ISP providers Satellite providers Wi Fi or Wi Max providers long term evolution LTE providers or other types of providers using known or developed non carrier interfaces. For example content may be delivered to a user have Wi Fi or other connectivity through a cell phone PDA or other portable device at a particular location or building where Wi Fi or other connectivity is available either where the user s associated carrier is also available or in places where no carrier connectivity is available. This option may be selected by the user in a customization process associated with system where the user selects particular ways of content provision such as is further described below.

It will be noted that illustrates four mobile carriers however the number of mobile carriers is not so limited and fewer or more carriers may be accommodated. For example in the United States there are four primary mobile carriers Sprint Verizon T Mobile and AT T. In one exemplary embodiment one or more interfaces may be provided to each of these carriers as well as others such as Alltel Cricket US Cellular etc. . It is likewise noted that other carriers and or configurations are possible and fully contemplated herein. For example in some embodiments alternate providers such as satellite providers WiMax providers or others capable of providing wired or over the air OTA service to mobile devices may be included instead of or in addition to cellular providers. Interfaces may provide means for provision of information to one or more wireless or other carriers based on their unique systems and interfaces and may allow content distribution system to receive information from the carriers regarding user device characteristics content provision performance responses and other parameters. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention it may be advantageous for content providers to be given such a carrier agnostic interface in order to avoid having to custom format content for the increasingly diverse number of device types and connectivity associated with the various users and associated carriers.

In general mobile carriers operate wireless communications systems that provide wireless connections to multiple users . Such wireless communications systems may operate in accordance with standardized protocols such as for example CDMA GSM or other wireless technology i.e. 802.11 WiMax 802.16 2.5G 3G 4G LTE etc. or instead may comprise proprietary systems. As noted previously in some embodiments other providers provide similar functionality in addition to or in place of that provided by carriers to associated mobile devices. In addition in some embodiments wired rather than wireless connectivity may be facilitated to provide connectivity through fully or partially wired connections to the users . It is noted that communication technology is constantly evolving and therefore newly developed standards may also be used within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The communications systems operated by carriers may provide users with voice or text content mobile web content email SMS MMS text messages video podcast flash mobilTV and or other features and services as may be offered by advertisers publishers through the associated carriers or other providers . Content from content distribution system may be provided to users through their respective carrier or carriers and content distribution system may also collect store analyze process and distribute information from carriers and users . Such information may also be distributed to carriers and or content providers . As used herein carriers other providers and their associated users may be grouped into a common classification denoted as clients which includes the carriers other providers and their associated users.

In addition to providing content to users through carriers and other providers content distribution system may also have one or modules or interfaces configured to provide information and content to one or more third party content providers which may then provide content to users through carriers or other network providers and may be configured to receive information from third party content providers wherein the third party providers can then interact directly with one or more associated carriers . For example as noted previously carriers may establish relationships with one or more third party providers. These third party providers may among other functions take advantage of less expensive remnant inventory when publishers own ad sales are insufficient to fulfill the demand and provide this inventory to users directly through their respective carriers. This approach may be used to offer publishers additional time to adjust to mobile advertising and educate their sponsors while still allowing them to see a return on editorial content.

Content interface module may further include one or more submodules configured to interface with publishers advertisers to provide GUIs allow configuration content creation control and management of advertising campaigns support for uploading and downloading of content and other data and information receipt and transmission of reports content data and other information and other functions related to engaging in advertising or content distribution campaigns managing campaigns receiving reports and other information related to those campaigns as well as other related functions.

In an exemplary embodiment content interface module includes multiple application programming interface API submodules implementing various features as are further described below as well as others.

If a third party content provider wishes to define a different look and feel to the default Verve system or create their own client they can use the set of APIs illustrated in to extract the content information they need. APIs may be provided to enable a plug in to a CMS system. Accordingly and define a set of API s for integrating the mobile dashboard module and or for extracting data from the system to create a third party client with a specific look and feel as an extension to system . For example API Content Hierarchy API API Content API and API Search API provide an interface to the content module as shown in . API Advertisement API provides an interface to management network module . APIs and Reports API and Accounting API provide an interface to facilitate fetching associated information from system . APIs and Advertising and Campaign Management provide an interface for fetching a targeted ad from the management network module . API is an interface for facilitating content protection and providing accurate content reporting. API provides an interface to facilitate access to scheduling functions to allow retrieval of content on a regular basis. API provides an interface to facilitate allowing a user to subscribe to a regularly scheduled message. API provides an interface to facilitate receiving location based LBS information. API provides an interface to facilitate return of information related to a neighborhood city and state of a user given the user s longitude and latitude. API provides an interface to facilitate return of rating numbers of an article. API provides an interface to facilitate return of a user s history i.e. links the user has browsed . Modules implementing the associated features and functions described with respect to these APIs are also typically provided in system .

In some embodiments a messaging API module may be constructed in a modular manner to support pluggable integration and enhancements. Aspects of an embodiment are further described as follows. At the core of the messaging API is the concept of a Message. A Message in it s simplest form contains a list of recipients and a sender. The most common implementation of a Message in a typical embodiment is an SmsMessage. SmsMessages have a text body a from field and an optional PushUrl. The PushUrl is used to send http links to mobile devices. SmsMessages may be sent to PhoneAddressableRecipients meaning recipients with a phone number.

Messages may be sent via a MessageSender interface. The MessageSender interface itself typically knows nothing about the Message type or how it is to be sent however implementations of the MessageSender define these things. For example Mqube may be used as an SMS aggregator. Then an MqubeMessageSender may be created which takes messages and sends them. In addition a TwoChatterMessageSender and a ClickatellMessageSender may be used to perform similar functionality. Additional details of this messaging are illustrated in .

The MessageSender interface gets the request to send a message however it still must know which MessageSender to route the message through. This may be done through a lookup to determine based upon certain criteria which sender to use. The criteria may include properties such as MessageFunction what s the purpose of this message Sender does this sender require a specific message sender 

Because a typical system must deal with integration of external services it may be important to handle situations when the external services are not available. The messaging API may be configured to have the ability to store resend messages upon unsuccessful attempts. It may also be configured to attempt sending via different aggregators transport mechanisms in the event of failure. The status of all message sending attempts can easily be determined through logs of the attempts.

Content distribution system may also include a Mobile Dashboard Module configured to provide administrative related functionality. Mobile Dashboard module is primarily configured to facilitate provisioning configuration and entitlement. It may also be configured to provide a reporting and auditing view of the site as well as providing other administrative functionality. Module may include features allowing publishers to configure the system to enable mobilizing their content sending messages to their users and monetizing their content through advertising. In accordance with one embodiment module may include features enabling publishers to integrate system directly with their content management system CMS such as is shown as publisher s database in . A set of APIs as shown in may be provided to facilitate this integration. API is an interface for facilitating publisher configuration of site details such as channel names ordering and the like. API is an interface for facilitating publisher configuration such as enabling site details templates and the like. API is an interface for facilitating access to messaging functions for purposes of configuration and scheduling future messages to be sent to users. API is an interface for facilitating access to a scheduling module i.e. module for control of repetitive ingestion of feeds or further scheduling messages. API is an interface for facilitating configuration of user message subscription. API in an interface for facilitating configuration of advertising in conjunction with modules such as advertising management module ad delivery subsystem and ad targeting subsystem . API is an interface of facilitating configuration of ad campaigns include the burn rate and flight impressions etc for a specific publisher. Other APIs provided additional functionality such as authentication and user login may also be provided. Modules implementing the associated features and functions described with respect to these APIs are also typically provided in the mobile dashboard module and or elsewhere in system such as in the subsystems shown in .

Content distribution system may also include a carrier interface module configured to provide an interface to one or more carriers or other providers and their associated users subscribers mobile devices clients . Carrier interface module may be configured to provide a carrier agnostic interface to the associated carriers and other providers so that content from content providers may be stored and processed in content module and then seamlessly configured and distributed to clients through carrier interface .

Attention is now directed to which illustrates additional details of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. As shown in content distribution system may include multiple modules and or subsystems in addition to or in place of those shown in configured to provide functionality associated with various aspects of the present invention. The modules as shown in will typically be included within the general submodules and as illustrated in however other configuration are possible and contemplated herein.

These subsystems may include a provisioning and trafficking subsystem configured to interface with one or more publishers and provide publishers with access to system functionality such as graphical user interfaces GUIs uploading content and information sending content and information to publishers databases for campaign information management accounting advertising media storage and related functionality. In a typical embodiment provisioning and trafficking subsystem may be included within module as shown in . Provisional and trafficking subsystem enables configuration of the partner and the ad networks available to this partner as well as storage of ad media and campaign and accounting information.

A reporting and inventory subsystem may be provided to receive and process report requests and report data and information manage and generate reports inventory reporting results provide data warehousing and provide related functions. Reporting and inventory subsystem may be configured to interface directly or indirectly with provisioning and trafficking subsystem as well as with other subsystems including those shown in . In a typical embodiment reporting and inventory subsystem may be included within content Dashboard module as shown in . Reporting and inventory subsystem facilitates providing information such as reports on the number of page views the number of uniques the number of hits etc. per publisher and or per site as well as other statistics that may be important to an ad platform. Reporting and inventory subsystem can also be used for various auditing purposes and can report on ad inventory and burn rate. The reporting functionality may also be related to the API illustrated in

An ad delivery subsystem may be provided to implement one or more ad delivery sub systems or modules. Ad delivery subsystem provides the capability of delivering different types of ad formats based upon input from other modules such as modules and . For example modules may be provided to receive information and content from provisioning and trafficking subsystem ad targeting and selection subsystem action and measurement subsystem or from other subsystems or modules including those shown in . Modules within ad delivery subsystem may include a WAP banner module a WAP text module an SMS text module an MMS module a mobile video module or other modules associated with delivery of content to carriers and their associated subscribers. Ad delivery subsystem provides a mechanism for enabling the ad platform to select the right ad for a specific user at a specific time and based on a specific device and or network.

Ad delivery subsystem may be configured to interface with carriers or other providers through interface as shown in or through other means known or developed in the art based on information and content associated with a particular user or users. Ad delivery subsystem may also be configured to receive information from clients through interface such as requests from users. Content delivery and request information may be routed to and from ad delivery subsystem directly or through an anonymizer module . Anonymizer module may be included to allow content providers to micro target users with relevant information without revealing that person s identity. In a typical embodiment ad delivery subsystem may be included within module as shown in or in other core modules within system .

An ad targeting and selection subsystem may be provided. This functionality may be included in or associated with ad management network as shown in . Ad targeting and selection subsystem may include one or more modules in the form of a targeting database real time ad targeting engine subscriber state database or other modules and subsystems. Ad targeting and selection subsystem may be configured to interface with other subsystems as shown in including provisioning and trafficking subsystem reporting and inventory subsystem ad delivery subsystem action and measurement subsystem external subscriber data subsystem or other subsystems or modules as may be provided in content distribution system . In a typical embodiment ad targeting and selection subsystem may be included within dashboard module as shown in . In a typical embodiment subsystem includes a series of business rules that enable improved targeting and maximization of ROI.

An action and measurement subsystem may be provided. Action and measurement subsystem may comprise one or more modules configured to provide and measure functionality related to collecting monitoring analyzing and responding to content provisioning. Action and measurement subsystem may include modules to monitor an externally branded WAP site click to call gateway provide SMS coupons provide location and or direction lookup or other related functions. Action and measurement subsystem may be configured to send and receive content information and data through interface to mobile clients . Action and measurement subsystem may also be configured to provide content information and data to reporting and inventory subsystem such as delivered impressions and responses including the raw date from a specific user clicking selecting information. Such data may be stored by reporting and inventory subsystem and or may be used by reporting and inventory subsystem to generate reports or other information that may be provided to publishers . In a typical embodiment action and measurement subsystem may be included within dashboard module and or within carrier interface module as shown in

An external subscriber data subsystem may be provided. External subscriber data subsystem may include servers databases or other technology configured to store data associated with publishers carriers users or other entities. Subsystem is the external 3party subscriber data. With this data targeting and selection of the ad may be improved. For example 3party databases such as operations can be used for improved targeting. In one embodiment external subscriber subsystem includes a publisher s subscriber database which may store associated data as well as a mobile carrier subscriber database with associated data. In a typical embodiment external subscriber data module may be included within dashboard module as shown in . External subscriber data subsystem may be used to provide subscriber specific information when selecting one or more ads to be targeted to a particular user such as is further described with respect to .

Attention is now directed to which illustrates some exemplary application programs and modules related to various features and functions that may be provided by embodiments of the present invention. Modules as shown in may be configured to operate within one or more subsystems as shown in . Embodiments of a system in accordance with the present invention may include a centralized or distributed content repository containing content data and information associated with content distribution and management. In addition embodiments may include one or more reporting modules . Such modules may include one or more functional submodules providing various reports such as standard campaign reports pacing reports subscription reports or other reports or related information. Embodiments may include one or more sticky application modules wherein such modules may include a range of sticky applications such as search applications instant messaging IM 2 way SMS WAP browsing voting and contests user personalized alert generation and distribution video picture audio or other content galleries social applications such as a MyMobile Page application or other applications. As used herein the term sticky applications refers to user applications that are socially oriented and or intended to keep users returning to the applications. For example a user may enjoy the interface of a particular application and or the information provided and will therefore keep returning to get responses destinations.

Embodiments may include a core service module comprising a set of applications modules allowing users to access information and content and provide user inputs and requests. Such applications may include services known in the art such as BestOf Weather Classified Ads Ringtones Horoscope Restaurant Listings DirtySecrets Real Estate Click 2 Call Click 2 Vote Click 2 Buy Picture Video or Audio Galleries as well as a wide range of additional modules.

Embodiments may also include a filtering and personalization module comprising one or more submodules configured to receive and send information and data associated with publishers carriers users or system operation. Submodules may include consumer preference modules device based capabilities modules location based information modules temporal based information modules network information modules session information modules or other similar modules.

Embodiments may also include one or more core ad platform modules . Ad platform modules may further include multiple sub modules providing functionality associated with various aspects of content management systems including advertisement events and notifications targeting storage and management of third party plug ins as well as other functions.

Embodiments may be provided with a content importer module configured to receive and send content information and data from external publisher sources. Publisher data may be provided through means known in the art including RSS feeds XSL transformation XSLT Custom adaptors or other means known in the art. Data provided by the content importer module may be in the form of a basic RSS feed and or may be a custom or proprietary RSS feed with syndication. For example data received from a content provider may be in a different format such as a flat file or XML file. This data may then be transformed to a fully contained RSS feed tailored for mobile applications.

Embodiments may also include one or more transport modules to receive and distribute content and information to publishers. Content may be delivered via SMS MMS E mail or other means known in the art. Content provided by transport module may be provided in a fashion that is independent of a particular carrier so that a publisher can receive and send advertising and content enabled device. For example advertisement may be micro targeted as it is input based on parameters such as network type device capabilities geographical location information temporal information session information consumer profiles as well as other parameters with the goal of providing geographically oriented contextual information and advertising optimized for a particular user.

Systems in accordance with the present invention may include one or more interfaces to allow publishers advertisers to provide content manage advertising campaigns monitor advertising campaign performance or results or perform other functions related to content distribution. In an exemplary embodiment an interface as shown in may be provided between content providers and content distribution system . The interface may include hardware and or software comprising one or more modules configured to allow content providers to provide content to content distribution system through publisher interface module as illustrated in as well as receive content and other information from content distribution system .

Interactions as illustrated in may be managed and controlled based on one or more application programming interfaces APIs . The APIs provide a way to access the core data of the system separate from the presentation of the data. Mobile dashboard provides a set of these APIs as shown in and illustrates APIs for the content which corresponds to module of . The content may include an ad as well as 3party content. Exemplary APIs in a typical system may include one or more of the following a mobile number lookup API may be provided allowing publishers the ability to target a single operator by targeting specific users and eliminating the need for users to provide carrier information during web registration simplifying the registration process and overcoming the issue of users changing carriers and therefore giving the publisher the ability to bill on the mobile user s bill directly. In addition specific devices users networks or combinations may be targeted a content API may be provided which delivers content hosted by a content management system a MobileSite API may be provided that enables publishers to create a mobile site using the content management system a messaging API that delivers a message to one or many mobiles in a typical configuration key options for sending messages are one way SMS two way SMS built in within the platform and independent of the operators capabilities to support two way SMS premium SMS billing single charge per download on their bills or recurring monthly charge on their bills SMS poll template and engine and the like a scheduling API may be provided to create send delete and retrieve message content available for both SMS and RSS a subscriber API may be provided that stores and maintains information by phone number for each subscriber a profile API may be provided that maintains profile information to enable targeting of subsets of subscribers a location API LBS may be provided to allow the publishers through the Verve Platform to locate the mobile phone user and target them with specific information e.g. ads or content a reporting API may be provided to enable the publishers to measure and manage their campaigns an Ad API may be provided to allow to link ads to publishers mobile site a Create a Web Page API may be provided to allow for advertising of mobile sites other APIs may also be provided. APIs such as those described above as well as others may be based on industry standard such the SOAP protocol for exchanging XML messages over computer networks.

Attention is now directed to which illustrates a content import workflow in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown in a publisher advertiser first engages with distribution system by setting up a data import location parameters and scheduling information at stage . Engagement may be provided through interfaces as shown in . Publisher information and settings may then stored in distribution system at stage . An administrative scheduler function may then schedules data import from for example a publishers CMS system or publisher s data as shown in at stage . Data may then be imported at stage via HTTP or FTP formatted as RSS or CSV. The data may then be processed users targeted and data formatted according to particular carrier and or user requirements based on carrier networks and user device characteristics in stage . In a typical workflow content is personalized for the user based on location time of day time of access and other user specific criteria such as is further described below with respect to .

A distribution system may include one or more functional modules configured to implement various functionality as is described with respect to through and elsewhere herein. Core functionality may be implemented with modules as are shown in along with associated submodules.

In one core function of a distribution system Ads associated with publishers may be selected and targeted to particular users connected through a particular carrier. Selecting an ad also denoted herein as micro targeting may be based on any of a number of user customization criteria including but not limited to user mobile subscriber preference users device capabilities location information such as geographic location position of users temporal information such as time of day and or time user accesses particular mobile device features or functions carrier network information session information frequency of use keywords carrier specific criteria portal or other similar or related criteria. For example based on a user s known interests location and the current time a user may be able to instantly read peer reviews about a particular shop or office they are about to enter or receive offers from a restaurant on the street they are walking on or heading to based on for example a previously scheduled meeting at a location on that street .

As described previously typical ads may be configured for distribution and provided so that publishers advertisers need not be aware of particular carrier and or device requirements. Exemplary types of supported ads may include banners interstitials video ads embedded in SMS and MMS alerts click to call as well as ads integrated with third parties such as third parties associated with particular carriers i.e. thirdscreenmedia adhocmobile etc. . These ads may be selected based on carrier and or device characteristics that may be obtained in a manner as is discussed elsewhere herein or by other means known or developed in the art.

Along with providing ads associated functions of a distribution system may include the ability to analyze traffic and hits for more profitable revenue generation along with functions providing complete sales and inventory forecasting and related functions such as monitoring a user s own profile or a user s friends.

In some embodiments a dynamic reporting capability may be provided via associated modules such as those shown in module in . Site reports may be provided based on a site s historical activity and may be configured to include functions such as ad space activity over time carrier performance and breakdown geographic advertisement distribution device performance and breakdown and other functions. Data reports may be provided including functions such as sales management data and information allowing optimization of publishers sales strategy site management reporting and forecasting data against price and other functions such as traffic measurement CPM etc. and behavior of users within a site for example the number of users who have clicked on a link on a particular page .

Attention is now directed to which illustrates an embodiment of a workflow associated with processing a request for content advertisements. It will be apparent that the stages are shown are for purpose of illustration only and not limitation. Accordingly other stages or combinations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention.

In exemplary embodiments content including advertisements may be characterized so that content can be associated with and targeted to specific users. For example some or all advertisements and other content may have categorizations associated with them such as for example news and information food and drinks ringtones music family etc. In addition advertisements and other content may include associated device information detailing the particular types of mobile devices the content can be distributed to and or displayed on. Content may also be categorized by types of networks and or network capabilities it may be presented to. This may be combined with geographic location information to determine particular capabilities of users in real time based on their location network access device etc. This categorization may be stored in one or more databases and then used as for example is described below to determine appropriate ad and content provision.

In light of this an embodiment of a content processing process may be employed as shown in . As illustrated in content or advertisements may be requested through a request response module at stage typically by a user. Content criteria may be provided from a content criteria module such as a database or content storage server wherein content may be categorized by various criteria and parameters such as time location user device type and the like. Once content has been requested an ad selection module may then be initiated at stage using content provided from an Ad Content database based on criteria stored in criteria module . Database may be database and or database or other databases as are shown herein. In a typical embodiment targeted user content will be provided along with associated targeted advertising content such as in the form or a boxed ad or banner ad along with the other content.

Viewing this process at a more abstract level the ad selection stage may be initiated by the request response module . The request response module may be initiated when a user requests specific content from a server in distribution system . The content may be fetched and formatted appropriately from the server and then one or more ads may be added to the content in an ad selection module at ad selection stage .

User information obtained as described above and or by other means may be processed and stored in one or more databases within distribution system where it may then be available to other processes and modules. Additional information related to a user s geographic position or location may be determined in stage . This information may come from carrier and or user device information or may be determined by other means known in the art. Information on the user s wireless network may then be determined in stage . This information may include type of network i.e. 2G 3G WiFi etc. provided by the carrier and or maintained in one or more databases within distribution system . Session information may then be determined in stage . As denoted herein a session is a time when a user is connected to a wireless network. During a session information may be collected to determine what the user may be interested in at that particular time. This information may come from one or more databases within distribution system based on a user profile. Additional information related to user interests may be determined in stage . This information may be provided by one or more databases within distribution system . Device information may be provided in stage . This information may come from one or more databases in distribution system . A final selection stage may be performed wherein one or more items of information provided in previous steps are used to select an appropriate advertisement and associated format.

Attention is now directed to which illustrates another embodiment of an advertisement selection process in accordance with aspects of the present invention. The process begins at stage when a user requests content from system . This is typically done by the user by clicking on a URL on a mobile device to access the system. The URL may be provided on a browser on the device and or may also be provided on a standalone application associated with system . In some cases the URL may be associated with a particular carrier such as is further described below. URL and other information is typically included in a message header accompanying the user request.

As used herein a partner is a single newspaper magazine or other data source that provides content feeds specific to a particular geographic area. These feeds are typically presented under a single brand name typically the name of the publication. A portal is the mobile user s entry point to partner data. A portal may offer data from multiple partners or it may consist of only a single partner s data. Partners may be offered on multiple portals. For example some portals are 

Likewise for generic off deck access the partner mnemonics should be the same. Generic Verve off deck URLs look like 

Implementation for ad Therefore it is possible to traffic advertisement on a per partner and per portal basis. This may mean both separate ad tags for each portal a partner is a member of and inserting a portal partner reference ID into an ad request.

The URL is then intercepted to determine which portal based on the URL is serving the content. The portal is important as it affects what network ad is used and the template which provides the look and feel of the page. At stage the header information is used to determine the type of device being used by user and to extract an appropriate template based on the device. The content is then extracted from a database at stage to determine the type category and specific content. An AdCell engine is then applied at stage to select an appropriate ad as is further described below. Each transaction in the system is typically logged at stage with the data sent to a data warehousing function such as is shown in subsystem in wherein reporting for partners and advertisers may be continually updated. Associated reports or other data may then be used for auditing or other purposes. At the last step the full content may then be sent back to the requesting device associated with user through the carrier with the content tailored to the user based on the user s interest or other criteria the carrier connectivity capabilities and or the user s device capability.

In addition to user requested content one or more advertisements may be provided to the user in place of or in addition to the other content as shown in . illustrates additional details of an embodiment of a process stage as shown in for facilitating ad selection. The process begins at stage with identification of the portal network based on analysis of the intercepted URL. It is noted that particular carriers may have associated ad network partners such as those shown in . A query is generated for the ad network based on a set of information associated with the user carrier network etc at the end of process . For example the query may include information about one or more of the network the portal the ad configuration the campaign configuration the flight configuration the user preference the location the user preference the location the user demographic the session information device characteristics and or other information. Associated publisher configuration information may be determined at stage . Once this information is obtained an advertising provider selection process may be implemented as shown in

In addition user preferences may be determined at stage user demographics may be determined at stage user session information may be determined at stage device characteristics and capabilities may be identified at stage natural language processing may be implemented at stage to improve targeting and an ad may be selected at stage based on one or more of the above described criteria or other criteria. In general publisher configuration and associated selection will be based on a series of ad selection stages wherein a local ad partner is first assessed at stage and a campaign is selected. When a request comes in the ad management module first attempts to serve it with local ads from a local ad partner B as shown in . If no relevant local ad partner ads are identified i.e. no matches are found for a specific page specific device specific type of ad etc. 3rd party ad partners B are activated at stage and an appropriate campaign is selected. Likewise if no 3rd party ad partner content is identified 3rd party ad remnant partners B may be activated. The particular configuration for which ad network is to be used and under which category local b partners b remnants b it belongs to is may be configurable through the mobile dashboard. In general the 3rd party ad partners B will be national ad providers whereas the local ad partners B will be local with corresponding local content stored on a server in system . However in some embodiments national ad providers may be affiliated with local ad providers so that requests for national ads may be associated with one or more of the local ad partners based on user specific criteria such as the user s interest location time of day etc. 3rd party remnant ad providers are generally used only when no other local or third party ads are available.

To further describe a query request as shown in an example may be as follows. A user associated with a particular carrier Sprint may send a request for content that will be processed to generate an associated ad in accordance with process . Since the user is associated with Sprint which has a mandatory ad network Enpocket the ad would be requested solely through Enpocket if the request comes through Sprint s portal. Alternately if the request is made through another portal the ad selection would not be limited to just the corresponding ad network and local and or third party ads may be selected. The header information provides details regarding the user s device and one or more user criteria may also be included in the query such as one or more user preferences session information such as whether the user is looking at sports entertainment news or other content category time of day the user s location etc. . This might result in a query that requests an ad based on the user s Blackberry device or other specific device through the Enpocket ad network if the request is made through Sprint based on the user s preference for sports news and possibly more specifically based on a particular sport such as baseball in a particular town where the user is present or is interested in. If successful the query will return a corresponding ad matched to the particular targeted information along with any other provided content.

As noted previously users may be provided with an interface or other mechanism to customize their information so that user tailored content may be delivered. illustrates one embodiment of a process for user customization. The process begins at stage with the user selecting a content page such as via a URL associated with the Verve system or another provider system. The user is then provided with one or more selection options at stage . These may include allowing the user to set preferences at stage and or to set the user s location at stage and or to set automatic location detection when available with the user s device and associated carrier at stage . The preferences are then stored on a database in system at stage such as database or another database as shown in .

As shown in and content may be provided to carriers from distribution system through interface and associated carrier interface . Carriers are typically concerned about who can provide appropriate content through their networks users and what that content includes. This is typically managed by the carriers through their wireless access protocol WAP . This may be done using XHTML Mobile Profile MP which is a strict subset of XHTML. Alternately in some embodiments an implementation using FLASH Lite or other approaches such as a widget implementation may be used.

In order to accommodate this in some embodiments a system in accordance with the present invention may be configured as shown in . Distribution system may provide direct distribution of content to users through a URL. However Carriers Operations typically dictate a specific partner to use for the ad partner for example Verizon requiring Third Screen Media . Therefore the system should determine that a portal is associated with a particular 3rd party ad partner and request ads accordingly. In this case ads will be requested from only the associated third party ad partner B and not from local ad partners B or the remnant partners B . Module may receive impressions from either B or and logs the information for reporting to subsystem . Configuration may be done through the administrative interface within the publisher subsection of system .

In order to provide and receive information from particular users and carriers it is important to be able to identify wireless device capabilities associated with particular mobile devices. In some embodiments a distribution system may be configured to interface with a wireless uniform resource file WURFL database of wireless device capabilities to determine capabilities of particular user devices and store this information in a database where it may be used to manage ad identification and filtering such as is illustrated in and . WURFL is only one open source database it will be apparent that in some embodiments other proprietary or open source databases may be used. In addition other approaches as are known in the art may also be used.

Attention is now directed to which illustrates embodiments of distribution of content from a distribution system according to various means of distribution as are known in the art. illustrates the level of complexity that may be managed by the systems as described herein to simplify interactions between content providers advertisers and publishers at one end of the chain and users at the other end. As shown in content from content providers may be received managed and distributed by distribution system and provided to users in formats designed to support multiple distribution means as appropriate for particular users and their associated devices including SMS WAP PUSH etc.

Advertisers or publishers acting in proxy of their advertisers may create advertising campaigns at stage that may consist of one or more flights or insertion orders. A flight or insertion order is the administrative component of the ad defining the cost of the ad number of impressions and when it should run. Flights may have multiple ad creatives. A creative is where an individual ad is defined and targeting specified. Response information e.g. landing page URL etc. may also be encapsulated in the creative. Each creative may consist of one or more files. Files are the actual banner text or other media type for the ad.

Having chosen a flight or flights the advertiser may then choose related criteria on when and how advertisements are chosen for display upload any necessary graphics or artwork and transfer the information into the content distribution system . Ad campaigns may include campaign parameters such as a campaign name associated advertiser as well as other parameters. A flight model may be created at stage wherein the flight models a set of impressions that have been bought for an advertising campaign. Flights may also be used to keep track of advertisement burn rate in order to ensure that the advertisement is used evenly over the course of the flights duration.

A flight relies on one or more display templates or styles of presentation to present an ad to a user. For example an ad may be in the form of a banner full page SMS message etc. and the format may be vertical screen device horizontal screen device or other display formats. Media templates may be used to provide specific format information needed such as the template type and template content and media. The media file in the displaytemplate is a pointer to the actual file binary file in the media. The media may be stored as binary information in the database and transcoded to a specific instance depending on the device features and or limitations.

A partner entity may be representative of or associated with a publication partner using the system. A data structure denoted as a partner table or tables may be used to describe the partner entity in a data structure within one or more databases. Other entities such as messaging ads and or other modules as illustrated in may reference the partner entity to control access and control of various components.

For example a user interacting with the display interface shown in the display provided on the user s mobile device with the mobile device connected to system can select the feed they want and the stories or other content he or she is interested in. In this case the user is provided with an invite to a movie selection at and is able to track who accepted the invitations and who declined . Item shows a Philadelphia i.e. region specific news link to the latest local news the page can become the user s unique page which can then be shared with friends acquaintances etc. Customization of this page to a specific client can be done through a 3rd party provider using the APIs as illustrated in and

It is noted that these display screens show just one embodiment of the present invention based on particular user selection criteria as well as device and network capabilities. In a typical implementation the system will automatically determine the capabilities of the particular user s device and tailor the page to both the user s interest and the device and network capabilities.

It is noted that in various embodiments the present invention may relate to processes such as are described or illustrated herein and or in the related applications. These processes are typically implemented in one or more modules comprising systems as described herein and or in the related applications and such modules may include computer software stored on a computer readable medium including instructions configured to be executed by one or more processors. It is further noted that while the processes described and illustrated herein and or in the related applications may include particular stages it is apparent that other processes including fewer more or different stages than those described and shown are also within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the processes shown herein and in the related applications are provided for purposes of illustration not limitation.

As noted some embodiments of the present invention may include computer software and or computer hardware software combinations configured to implement one or more processes or functions associated with the present invention such as those described above and or in the related applications. These embodiments may be in the form of modules implementing functionality in software and or hardware software combinations. Embodiments may also take the form of a computer storage product with a computer readable medium having computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations such as operations related to functionality as describe herein. The media and computer code may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the present invention or they may be of the kind well known and available to those having skill in the computer software arts or they may be a combination of both.

Examples of computer readable media within the spirit and scope of the present invention include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as programmable microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer code may include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. Computer code may be comprised of one or more modules executing a particular process or processes to provide useful results and the modules may communicate with one another via means known in the art. For example some embodiments of the invention may be implemented using assembly language Java C C C or other programming languages and software development tools as are known in the art. Other embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardwired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine executable software instructions.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. Thus the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.

