---

title: System and method for implementing adaptive security zones
abstract: A system for managing adaptive security zones in complex business operations, comprising a rules engine adapted to receive events from a plurality of event sources and a security manager coupled to the rules engine via a data network, wherein upon receiving an event, the rules engine determines what rules, if any, are triggered by the event and, upon triggering a rule, the rules engine determines if the rule pertains to security and, if so, sends a notification message to the security manager informing it of the triggered event, and wherein the security manager, on receiving a notification message from the rules engine, automatically establishes a new security zone based at least in part on the contents of the notification message, is disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009785&OS=09009785&RS=09009785
owner: LiveOps, Inc.
number: 09009785
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140227
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 589 832 filed on Oct. 28 2009 entitled System and Method For Implementing Adaptive Security Zones and is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention is in the field of information security and more particularly it is in the field of security systems for use in complex business processes such as contact centers and other customer service applications.

When the contact center industry first arose some forty years ago security was a relatively straightforward matter. The technologies in use were analog telephones and text based computer terminals for the most part and all of the customer service representatives who might interact with customers and thus be exposed to sensitive customer data were generally employees and were centrally located in secure facilities. Data was generally stored in very secure mainframe computers. In this early contact center industry context the primary security threat to consumer data would have been the employees and this threat was not serious. The employees did not have access to computers at home nor to the Internet and there were no small easily concealed devices capable of storing large amounts of data. And since employees only contact with computers was likely to be with the remote terminals in the contact center where they worked the level of sophistication in computer technology of the employees was generally low so the risk of customer service representatives hacking in to the mainframe to steal consumer data was minimal and easily mitigated . And a much smaller proportion of consumers economic activity was conducted using credit cards in the early days of the contact center business compared to today. Online banking was unheard of forty or even twenty years ago. In short there was less data to steal and it had less value and it was harder to steal.

Today s customer service contact center environment offers a stark contrast in terms of securing sensitive data to this simple situation of years gone by. Today virtually every customer service representative or agent throughout this document the term agent will be used to refer to customer service representatives generally will have computers at home and will be computer literate. Agent turnover tends to be high and many agents are very technically savvy as they have grown up with computers unlike the agents of the early days in the contact center industry. Readily available technologies that make it possible to record and conceal large amounts of data such as flash memory sticks and the like make it easy for technically knowledgeable agents to gather data and remove it from secured facilities with ease. Because most transactions conducted by consumers involve credit cards debit cards online banking ecommerce or some combination of these essentially all consumer economic activity creates exploitable and accessible sensitive data. And since the telephony systems used by contact centers tend to be tightly integrated to the computer systems since sensitive data is often stored on many servers and since agents work with fully functional computers rather than terminals in most contact centers today whatever data passes through a contact center tends to be much more accessible to agents than ever before.

To complicate this already much more severe situation the related trends of outsourcing of contact center operations including agents offshoring of technology and people and utilizing home based agents means that much of the technology and many of the people involved in delivering customer service from large enterprises to consumers is potentially not even under the control of the enterprise. Enterprises must rely on security programs of their partners and these programs must deal with the difficulty that more than one of their enterprise clients data is moving through their contact centers. This last detail adds a new dimension because now it is important not only to make sure agents or hackers do not steal sensitive data but also to ensure that data of different clients is not commingled. These challenges are exacerbated yet more by the rapid emergence of cloud computing platforms in which large server farms making extensive use of machine virtualization technology operate complex applications on behalf of and usually under the control of numerous independent clients many of whom compete with each other.

In some cases home agents are used to conduct customer service operations. Often these home agents are employees of the enterprise providing the customer service. In other cases they may be employees of an outsourcer that provides contact center services on behalf of an enterprise. And in yet other cases home agents may be independent contractors making money by working part time as contact center agents from home. As with the outsourcing arrangement these home agents may provide services to more than one enterprise making the data commingling challenge relevant. The computers used by home agents are sometimes owned by the agents employers but in the case of independent contractor home agents the computer is owned by the agent and is not under the direct control of any enterprise s information security tools programs or policies. Clearly the challenge of ensuring the security of sensitive consumer data in this environment is much more complex and daunting than the security challenges faced by early contact centers.

Finally when dealing with home agents and especially those who work casually or part time there is a new privacy issue raised that is simply not present in centralized contact centers whether an enterprise s own centers or those of an outsourcer . The privacy of the home agent also needs to be protected at least when the agent is not working on behalf of an enterprise. That is it is fine for an enterprise to monitor calls to a home agent that are taken on behalf of that enterprise and for the same enterprise to monitor keystrokes of the agent during these calls and any wrap up work following these calls . But it would be inappropriate for the same enterprises to monitor calls that are either for another enterprise or not part of the agent s work at all in many cases the same phone is used for personal calls and contracted customer service calls . Currently available systems provide an all or nothing approach for example by having a dedicated phone line only for business use difficult to enforce or running business calls through an intermediate point under the control of the enterprise and only monitoring calls passing through that intermediate point effectively thereby only monitoring business calls however this approach still does not solve the problem of commingling when more than one enterprise uses the same outsourcer and the intermediate point is under the control of the outsourcer .

Another related problem faced by enterprises in the art today is the control of tools and capabilities needed by agents to perform customer service functions. Agents not only have access to important consumer data but also to the enterprise s own proprietary data and systems. For instance in a common scenario home based agents working part time take direct response calls from consumers who have viewed for example a television infomercial and wish to consider buying the advertised product. The home agent typically must have access to pricing information and to transactional systems in order to carry out the desired sale. Pricing data and data about promotions that are in place or that are upcoming is very sensitive and it is desirable that home agents only have access to that data as they need it with no ability to copy it. And in some cases enterprises may want to ensure that certain tools used by agents are only available for valid business reasons rather than for personal reasons. For example in a ticket selling scenario it might be important that the agent is only allowed to sell tickets to valid customers calling in and pre screened by an interactive voice response IVR system it would be important in these cases to prevent the agent from selling tickets to family and friends while they have access to the tools. Again the emergence of cloud computing complicates an already challenging situation because the tools provided for use in service of various clients may themselves be cloud based hosted applications operated by independent third parties.

Another problem common in the art and made worse by the widespread adoption of home or remote workers is the problem of safeguarding sensitive customer data that is stored in call recordings or other recordings of activity such as application steps taken during customer interactions. These recordings are commonly used in the art for quality monitoring and training purposes. Increasingly quality monitoring personnel may also be home working independent contractors. And training is often performed online especially when training home agents. In these situations call recordings and related recorded data may be viewed by people who are not under the direct control of the enterprise and who may be using computers not under the control of the enterprise s information security programs and policies. While it may be desirable to manually edit such recordings to remove sensitive data such as credit card and social security numbers this approach has at least two serious problems. First the cost and limited scalability of such manual methods makes them unattractive for most applications. Second in many cases it is legally or contractually necessary to retain a complete recording of every call. Complete recordings may be needed for evidentiary purposes dispute resolution employee disciplinary actions or legal records of authentication or transactions in health care and securities industry for example .

It is an object of the present invention to provide a more effective security management system for complex business processes by addressing many of the problems just described.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention a system for managing adaptive security zones in complex business operations comprising a rules engine adapted to receive events from a plurality of event sources and a security manager coupled to the rules engine via a data network is disclosed. According to the embodiment upon receiving an event the rules engine determines what rules if any are triggered by the event and upon triggering a rule the rules engine determines if the rule pertains to security and if so sends a notification message to the security manager informing it of the triggered event and the security manager on receiving a notification message from the rules engine automatically establishes a new security zone based at least in part on the contents of the notification message.

In another embodiment of the invention at least one of the event sources is a communications system or device. In yet another embodiment of the invention at least one of the event sources is a call manager. In some embodiments of the invention the security zone extends to at least one remote independent agent and optionally precludes the use of at least one software tool or program that is otherwise available to the remote independent agent or requires at least an additional authentication step before the remote independent agent is allowed to take a specific action. In another embodiment of the invention the security zone causes sensitive information to be automatically made inaccessible within a call recording.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention a system for managing adaptive security zones in customer service operations involving remote independent customer service agents comprising a call manager server adapted at least to receive and control telephony sessions a rules engine adapted to receive events from at least the call manager and a security manager coupled to the rules engine via a data network is disclosed. According to the embodiment upon receiving an event the rules engine determines what rules if any are triggered by the event and upon triggering a rule the rules engine determines if the rule pertains to security and if so sends a notification message to the security manager informing it of the triggered event and the security manager on receiving a notification message from the rules engine automatically establishes a new security zone based at least in part on the contents of the notification message.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention a method for adaptively managing security zones in complex business operations comprising the steps of a receiving an event pertaining to the business operation b determining if any rules are triggered by the received event c determining if any triggered rules pertain to security and d establishing a new security zone based at least in part on the identity and contents of a triggered security related rule.

The inventors provide in a preferred embodiment of the invention a system and methods for implementing adaptive security zones. A security zone is a region in space or time or both in which a specified set of security rules are implemented or enforced. Regions can be defined in space by reference to organizational structures or their associated infrastructure elements such as all desktops operated by home agents or all servers within a given site or even those portions of an agent s desktop video display that are under the control of applications managed by our company and the like. Regions can also be defined in space by reference to data elements or media streams stored or operating at particular locations in an electronic computer or on a particular data or telecommunications network for example the audio streams for all call legs originating from an agent s phone or all call recordings stored in a particular vaulted storage facility . Regions can be defined in time by reference any specific physical time period but also by reference to any particular set of steps in a process for example the phrase from the time an agent logs in until the agent takes her first call defines a specific region in time during which a particular set of security rules may be placed in effect. It is clearly expected that security zones as referred to herein refer only to those systems or participants that are under the direct physical or policy based control of a particular system or entity or a particular set of systems or entities that implement a particular set of security rules and the scope of the invention only extends to those systems or persons so situated. An adaptive security zone is a security zone as defined above in which a set of security rules that is implemented or enforced depends in some predictable way on one or more business rules and in which security rules are added or dropped as additional business rules are satisfied or as previously satisfied business rules become ineffective that is they are no longer satisfied . Business rule as used herein means a rule triggered by a specific event or range of events events being for example changes in data completion of a step in a process or even simply the arrival of a specified time . Business rules are commonly executed in a rules engine where each time an event is fired or occurs a check is made to see what rules are required to be evaluated based on the identity or attributes of the event. For example when a new account is opened check if the opening balance is greater than 5 000 and if so send a gift to the address of the account is a rule that specifies an action send a gift to take on receipt of an event new account opened that satisfies certain conditions minimum account balance of 5 000 . While the terms business rule and rules engine are well known in the art it should be appreciated that it is not important for the purposes of defining the scope of the present invention that a business rule actually be relevant to a for profit business or indeed any business at all. And while there are many standard types of rules engines in the art it should also be appreciated that any software running on a computing device or firmware or programmable hardware device that receives events evaluates them against a set of rules based on each event s type or attributes and then causes those rules whose criteria are satisfied to be carried out can be considered a rules engine for the purposes of defining the scope of this invention.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention adaptive security zones are used to manage operations of complex customer service processes. shows a typical arrangement of a customer service platform capable of carrying out complex business processes and known in the art. In the example shown in customer service is provided by agents working at agent stations that are outside of the organizational or legal boundaries of an enterprise . For example agents can be independent contractors interacting with customers via their agent station which comprises in one exemplary arrangement a personal computer and a telephone located at the agent s home. Note that agent station can also comprise only a computer with software operable on the computer to enable Internet Protocol IP telephony to be carried out from the computer typically with a headset used by the agent for both microphone and audio playback purposes. Any form of agent station that allows data communication to servers within enterprise over the Internet or otherwise and allows live communication with customers seeking service can be used.

Customers seek service or may be proactively approached to provide service service need not be inbound from customer to service provider but can be outbound as well within the scope of the invention from a phone or PC typically by calling an 800 number. Their phone call and possibly also their data connection via the Internet is carried over either time division multiplexed telephone carriers that is what is commonly known as plain old telephone service or over Internet Protocol IP carriers such as are well established in the marketplace today. In some embodiments calls are extended from a phone network TDM carrier or IP carrier or via a leased IP network to an external interactive voice response IVR system where callers can traverse menus and possibly engage in self service transactions. External IVR service providers are well known in the art. Data collected in external IVR system can be passed to applications within enterprise via data interface which can implement any of the many data interface mechanisms known in the art such as web services Java with remote procedure calls RPC direct application programming interface API calls against a public or proprietary interface specification provided to the operator of external IVR system by enterprise and the like. In other embodiments calls are extended into the enterprise from TDM carrier via media gateway where the TDM call is converted to an IP call using for example the Session Initiation Protocol SIP . Calls may be extended into enterprise without first going to external IVR or they may first go to external IVR and then be extended into the enterprise via TDM carrier . Alternatively calls may be extended into the enterprise from an IP carrier public IP carrier or leased IP network . Alternatively calls may be delivered directly from external IVR system to agent station usually but not necessarily as a result of data passed to external IVR system from data interface data passed is often for example call routing instructions telling external IVR system to which among potentially many agent stations to route the call .

In the prior art example shown in calls are converted to IP typically but not necessarily using SIP either in an external IP network or or in media gateway . Call control is executed in Call Manager which receives messages from SIP Proxy concerning the arrival and state of IP calls and optionally receives data from external IVR via data interface . Call control can include routing based on a variety of rules commonly including first in first out queues as are common in automated call distribution ACD systems in the art. Calls are optionally extended to one or more Media Servers and possibly recorded by storing audio data in recording storage . In most prior art embodiments all calls sent to agent stations would also be extended to Media Server usually via a conferenced in call leg so that the entire call between an agent and a customer can be recorded in Recording Storage . In prior art systems with external agent stations for example home agents who are either employees of enterprise or of an outsourcer or are independent contractors agent station interacts with business applications of enterprise via web services or applications . In some embodiments one or more presence servers are used to track agent states particularly when routing logic in for example Call Manager is used to route calls to specific agents.

In some embodiments systems shown in enterprise are distributed across more than one physical location for example by distribution among a set of several data centers. Because of this it is known in the art to have a Data Management System for managing the distribution and synchronization of data among the local data stores of the various sites and for possibly interacting with third party data sources. Finally it is well known in the art for the various functions shown in to be distributed among one or more cooperating enterprises for example where external IVR system is operated by one business entity Media Gateway SIP Proxy and Call Manager by another and Web Apps by possibly yet another all integrated as needed with local data stores and data management system of enterprise . In the following descriptions of embodiments of the instant invention it should be understood that any of the varied architectures commonly practiced in the art may be used with the invention without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed.

While business rules invoked by Rules Engine can be of any type the type that is relevant to the present invention are those involving security. For example when appropriate events are passed to Rules Engine a business rule may be invoked which changes the security level desired at Agent Station . More specifically according to an embodiment of the invention specific event combinations expressed as business rules may define a security zone with which a specific set of security rules is associated. Security Manager implements or enforces security rules for various security zones. For example Security Manager may require an additional level of authentication to be obtained before allowing sensitive data to be sent to an Agent Station when one security zone is in effect for the particular Agent Station or for a set of Agent Stations of which the particular one is a member . Security Manager is according to a preferred embodiment a software process executing on a dedicated network connected server. However according to other embodiments the functional elements of Security Manager may be distributed as separate software applications running on more than one network connected computer and indeed one or more of the software applications may in some embodiments run as firmware on specializes security devices such as biometrics sensor devices.

With the complete potentially complex nature of the event received in step known and any rules identified in step Rules Engine checks to determine if any rules whose conditions have been satisfied require activation of a new security zone. And in step satisfied rules are checked to determine if any existing security zones require deactivation. Activation of a new zone does not necessarily imply deactivation of come previous zone each security zone is activated and deactivated independently by triggering of business rules. It should be noted however that this does not preclude a single event from deactivating one zone and activating another each covering the same spatial extent for example each applying only to a specific Agent Station . But it is entirely feasible for one security zone to require enforcement of one set of security rules within a particular region as defined above regions can be both spatial and temporal and then for a second security zone to be activated that requires some additional set of rules to be enforced. Logically if some of the previous rules are to be kept but others turned off a previous security zone would be deactivated and a new security zone with only the desired rules would simultaneously be activated. It should be clear that many combinations of zones and rules are possible. As the final step in processing an event in Rules Engine any results determined in steps and that is any required activations or deactivations of security zones are passed via network to Security Manager in step .

Security Manager reviews each activation and deactivation request sent in step and determines which components meaning elements of the overall architecture such as network Call Manager Web Applications Agent Station and so forth are affected. It notifies each affected component in step of security rules that must be enforced or that should no longer be enforced. As an example of how the process of establishing and managing adaptive security zones can be carried out Agent Station is equipped with a basic speaker recognition software module such as are known in the art. Because Agent Stations are often used by only one agent and generally are not used by more than a very small number of agents it is possible for such a speaker recognition module to have a significant ability to identify the one or very agents who typically use a given Agent Station because of the large data set available to the speaker recognition module. In such situations it may happen that a speaker recognition module detects the presence of an unknown speaker either instead of the usual speaker or perhaps in addition to the usual speaker. This could occur for example if a family member of a home agent stepped into a room where the home agent was working at Agent Station and began speaking. If so configured a speaker recognition module on detecting such an unknown speaker could fire an event informing Rules Engine of the possible presence of an unknown new or additional speaker. Rules Engine would carry out the steps of and determine that a new security zone should be established on the affected Agent Desktop in which no sensitive customer data would be allowed to be displayed on screen or spoken aloud and perhaps also in which additional authentication would be required from the know or expected user and in which a warning would be provided to any user of the affected Agent Station that security needs require that only authorized users see or hear sensitive data in order to prompt the correct user to ask others to leave . Rules Engine would send the new security zone to Security Manager which would in turn notify Web Applications not to send any sensitive customer data to the affected Agent Desktop and to effect the necessary warnings on Agent Station .

There are various means by which sensitive regions in one or more audio streams may be identified according to the invention. In the simplest and least automated a person manually listens to each recording and marks start and stop points for sensitive regions for example a start point would be when a person begins to recite his social security number and a stop point would be when the recitation of his social security number is completed. The inventors contemplate several automated means to accomplish detection of start and stop points of sensitive regions. Automated speech recognition ASR systems which are well known in the art may be used to detect key words that signal when sensitive data is likely to be uttered. For instance if a person is detected by ASR to say my account number is an event may be sent to Rules Engine which triggers a rule stipulating that the next ten seconds are to be considered sensitive alternatively ASR could refine the definition by listening for digits and marking the time when a first digit utterance starts as a start time and the when a last digit utterance ends as an end time. Similarly other common keywords such as social security PIN and the like may serve as markers within grammars defined within an ASR system to detect sensitive data. Such ASR based detection can be attempted in real time as audio is streaming to Recording Server from each call leg or after an entire call recording has been collected or indeed after a subset such as a 30 second segment has been collected . Because ASR is not perfectly accurate and because there are many ways in which sensitive data might be provided by a customer or repeated by an agent that were not anticipated by those who prepared rules for use by an ASR system such as grammars other means are also contemplated for use in detecting the presence of sensitive data.

In one embodiment normal work flows associated with customer service calls are built using a series of screens shown to an agent at Agent Station . For example one screen might be designed to facilitate the collection by an agent of customer identification information. Often it is necessary to collect several distinct forms of identifying information from a customer to satisfy internal or legal rules for instance Health Insurance Privacy Assurance Act or HIPAA compliance for health related calls so such screens could be active for considerable portions of a call s length. Each screen transition constitutes an event that can be sent by Web Applications to Rules Engine where it can trigger a rule that establishes a new security zone with a rule that says sensitive data must mask or delete all recorded for the period this zone is in effect before sending recordings to Public Recording Storage full recordings may still be collected and stored in Vaulted Recording Storage of course these rules will in most embodiments be parameter settings rather than English phrases the plain language rule just provided is for exemplary purposes only or another which says non sensitive data all recorded data for this zone may be stored in Public Recording Storage . As each of these rules is triggered Rules Engine sends a corresponding event to Security Manager and Security Manager notifies Recording Server of its new operating parameters. Note that in some embodiments notification of screen change or other application level events that trigger deletion or masking of sensitive data is sent directly from Web Applications or Agent Station to Recording Server . Also Recording Server can be a software application executing on the same computer as Web Applications or even on Agent Station as when an agent works offline and recordings are captured locally for later transfer to a centralized storage facility without departing from the scope of the invention. As an agent moves from screen to screen while serving a customer different security zones are sequentially activated to cause recording or deletion or masking of audio data as required by underlying application or work flow context. Also embodiments described herein for handling recordings of audio streams or files can also be used to record and to mask or delete sensitive data in video or text streams without departing from the scope of the invention.

In some embodiments it is desirable to obtain more granular or finely divided divisions between sensitive and non sensitive data. For example if a particular screen did encompass several sensitive data elements but also many non sensitive data elements or if it was active for a much longer period of time than that in which sensitive data was being handled then much more recorded audio or video or text would be deleted or masked than necessary. Accordingly events can be sent from Agent Station or Web Applications to Rules Engine each time an agent s focus moves into or out of a sensitive data element of a screen. For instance when an agent moves a cursor into a field for entering a customer s social security number an event is fired to set a sensitive data security zone and when the agent leaves that field another event is fired to set a non sensitive data security zone.

In another embodiment entry into and out of sensitive data zones can be signaled by events generated by software executing on Agent Station or by Web Applications executing on an application server said events being generated when internal application logic requires it event triggering based on entry into data fields or screen transitions are specific cases of this general approach . Such events could be generated when for example an agent presses a particular hot key or clicks a button or other control within a screen based or browser based application to indicate that something the agent or a customer is saying at the particular point in time is sensitive.

The sensitivity of information uttered within calls within video sessions or within streaming text sessions does not necessarily be due to consumer privacy. Other examples of sensitive data which may be deleted or masked according to embodiments described herein include data concerning a business that it is unnecessary for a quality monitor or training staff member or indeed a trainee to hear or see. For example price information provided by an agent to a customer or perhaps discussed by an agent and a supervisor while a customer is on hold could be masked or deleted to prevent unnecessary or undesirable disclosure of the sensitive pricing data to unintended persons. Also and especially when home agents are involved it may be information pertaining to or belonging to an agent that is sensitive and requires masking or deletion. For instance if an agent is on a call and puts a customer on hold in order to respond to a domestic query verbally the agent s and possibly another member of the agent s household s voice may be recorded automatically since a customer call is still ongoing . In some embodiments agents are provided with a privacy button which they can activate to prevent any audio from being recorded by Recording Server . Programmatic controls which can be configured by security rules set as part of an adaptive security zone may disable such privacy buttons for example whenever a customer is on an active call leg. Additionally privacy buttons can be deactivated automatically after a configurable delay period to prevent inadvertent or intentional long term masking of what is going on at Agent Station from enterprise .

There are various ways of masking or deleting sensitive data that is marked for censorship according to the invention. In some embodiments audio is masked by superimposing a loud noise signal on the recorded audio signal while in other embodiments the audio signal is simply deleted. This can actually be done in two ways. In one embodiment a null audio signal silence is inserted in place of all audio between start and stop markers so that the overall time elapsed by the entire audio file when censored corresponds to the actual time. This is particularly useful when screen capture or other logging methods are used to capture application related events during the customer service session as it allows correlation of times between audio and other data sources. In another embodiment the section of an audio recording stream or file that is marked as sensitive is simply deleted. Also marking of start and stop times can be performed by either adding a non audible audio marker to the audio stream or file typically either too high or too low in frequency to be detected or by storing start and stop times as data elements in Recording Server and then referring to them when editing recorded audio or video.

In all of the discussion above concerning sensitive data in call recordings it should be noted that not only are recordings of audio from call legs or video from video call legs disclosed but also recording of any or all other aspects of each interaction session. For example it is common in the art for screen capture to be used to record screen based actions taken during a session. It is envisioned by the inventors that in an embodiment of the invention sensitive data can be masked or deleted from these screen captured session recordings based on changes in security zone settings or security related events in an analogous manner to that described above for call recordings. The same events or triggers can be used to mark start and stop points for sensitive data in screen capture sessions additionally in some embodiments specific screen elements such as coordinate regions or specific data fields are specified as well as start and stop times in order that only the sensitive data on a screen is masked while other non sensitive screen captured data is recorded normally.

In some embodiments automated speech recognition ASR techniques are used to transcribe some or all of the recorded calls exclusive or not of the sensitive regions if sensitive regions are transcribed their transcripts would be stored in a vault in the same manner as the full call recordings . Such transcripts would render the contents of calls searchable but of course such transcripts come at a cost. When dealing with speaker independent large vocabulary speech recognition the costs of obtaining complete high accuracy transcriptions would be very high and in some embodiments only targeted portions of recorded calls would be transcribed. Targeting is accomplished in an embodiment of the invention by triggering rules in Rules Engine based on events and possibly metadata concerning events that occurred during the course of calls such as agent transitions between screens or screen elements of a business software application used during calls.

In many cases call recordings are used by business users to monitor quality of customer service processes to resolve contested issues between customers and agents to aid in training or disciplining of agents and to monitor quality of service provided by agents who are employees contractors or even employees of outsourcers. Call recordings have very significant business value but as discussed they also represent significant risks in terms of security of confidential business data and the protection of consumer privacy as required by many statutes. While deletion of personally identifying information and other sensitive data in call recordings that will be used by business users is an excellent step it is still often not sufficient when access to call recordings is obtained over public networks such as the Internet. Accordingly in some embodiments information rights management IRM technologies are applied to call recordings. IRM technologies known in the art employ a combination of strong encryption user based access control and robust control over the ability of users to copy the information for instance by disabling operating systems functions for taking screen shots and disabling copy and paste when IRM controlled data is being used within an application . In some embodiments IRM is enhanced by checking at the operating system level whether any other applications are listening to the output of a user s computer s sound card if so re recording of IRM controlled call recordings might be possible and accordingly IRM prevents playback of call recordings while any other applications are listening to sound outputs. Such a check can be performed just before a user s computer begins to play a call recording and could be repeated periodically during playback to ensure that no application begins listening during playback.

Adaptive security zones are also used in an embodiment of the invention to control access to tools or applications by agents at Agent Station . In many cases agents may handle customer service requests from customers of more than one client of enterprise and it is important to protect each client s applications and tools as well as each client s data from inadvertently being used by or exposed to customers or employees of other clients. For example if screen recording were used along with call recording to record customer sessions techniques described above would suffice for identifying and deleting known sensitive data in these recordings. However if another client s application was still visible on an agent s screen the information about that application would not typically be available to the managers of customer service for the client whose session is active and being recorded because it is not their application . As a result sensitive data about the earlier client s customers business and applications could be compromised. In other situations clients may require that certain applications only be operable when agents at Agent Station are actually engaged in an active customer session but not when the same agents are idle. Accordingly in an embodiment of the invention and referring to an Applications Tools Manager is used to effectuate security zone changes signaled over network by Security Manager . As an example when a call is completed an event signifying that is received by Rules Engine which determines that certain rules are satisfied and sends a security zone notification to Security Manager as described above. Security Manager then implements a security zone by sending a notification to Applications Tools Manager requiring that certain tools are disabled for the agent who just finished a call when another call is offered to the same agent the same process could be used to re enable the tool so it is available on the next call.

In another example of adaptive security zones according to an embodiment of the invention illustrates a process for managing data access according to adaptive security zone settings. In step a user is authenticated at Agent Station normally. At some later time in step a new security zone is activated in response to some event handled by a business rule implemented in Rules Engine that is applicable to Agent Station where the user is located. When the user in step attempts to obtain or copy one or more data elements at Agent Station a check is made step to determine whether the authenticated user is authorized to access or copy the requested data. Notice that both data access and data copying may be managed according to this embodiment as it is important to prevent unauthorized copying by people who are in fact authorized to access a certain one or more data elements control of access and copying may be executed using one process but different permissions. If the requested data transaction is allowed it is carried out in step if not the user is warned in step that he attempted to carry out an unauthorized data transaction. And in step any logging or audit requirements are carried out.

It should be noted that the term higher level of authentication can in various embodiments of the invention mean different things. In some cases higher level means to a higher level of confidence by adding more authentication factors to an already accomplished authentication in others what is accomplished may be more a re validation of an authentication to restore confidence to the level it was when the authentication was last completed. An authentications may be considered to go stale if it occurred too far in the past or if there have been long periods of inactivity in the time since it was executed or if some other indication of possible intrusion or of a user switch is received. Rules for determining when authentications are required are typical of the type of security rules that are activated in an adaptive security zone.

In some embodiments of the invention multifactor authentication strategies are used that include passive behavioral authentication. This approach is based on the fact that different people use computers peripherals and software applications in slightly different ways. For example a particular agent may always use the tab key on a computer keyboard to move between certain data entry fields and yet routinely use a mouse to access other fields. And users may routinely position their mouse in certain screen locations when idle or they may have a characteristic mouse movement pattern that occurs during periods of reading. Each of these characteristics may be utterly devoid of functional meaning and may represent simply habits of a user of which the user may be completely unaware. As long as these traits are relatively stable at least within a session they can be used passively to detect situations where the probability is that a user change has taken place. For instance if a pattern of keyboard and mouse usage suddenly changes it could be because a different person is now using the mouse and keyboard or it could simply be because the same user has shifted from one habitual loiter state to another . Positive identification may sometimes be possible where very distinct patterns are present but even an ability to detect a probable user change can be used according to the invention to trigger an active authentication step. Over time the system of the invention can adapt by noting for example that a particular sudden shift from one behavior pattern to another always results in a successful login verification when checked indicating a common pattern of behavioral shifts on the part of the particular user in future sessions such a common pattern of behavioral shifts can be used as part of the passive behavioral profile for the user. Another example of passive behaviors that can be monitored to validate users or to detect user changes include voice based user recognition. While it is well known in the art to have users train speaker recognition systems by speaking particular phrases and then later to repeat those phrases to authenticate themselves it is also useful according to the instant invention to passively monitor the speech of users and to detect changes in speech patterns which like changes in keyboard and mouse patterns can be used to prompt active authentication. In an embodiment speech is sampled heavily during periods immediately following high confidence authentication events as when a user actively authenticates possibly using multifactor authentication to build a current speech patterns model for the user this is done using acoustic feature extraction techniques that are well established in the field of computer speech recognition . There are two advantages to this approach. First the confidence level that the speech samples being obtained are indeed those of the expected user is high because the user has just completed a strong authentication event. Second it is quite common for strong authentication events to be triggered at specific points in a business process for just before taking a binding order and this fact can be used to select a very specific recognition grammar to improve the accuracy of word recognition and therefore to improve the utility of the speech sample for voice recognition in the future . Then as time progresses samples switch from being model building samples to being passive authentication data samples with the speech being sampled being compared to similar utterances made during the model building phase. Another common area of behavior that is well suited for passive multifactor authentication purposes is the rate at which typing and other errors are made by a user. These error rates and the specific types of errors made will vary over time but will nevertheless tend to be very specific to individual users. As with speech in the example above sampling can be performed shortly after a strong authentication event and then continued with the goal of detecting abrupt shifts in error rates and kinds possibly indicating a change in user and therefore triggering either more intense scrutiny using passive multifactor behavioral authentication or an active authentication step . Yet another very useful passive user authentication technique is analysis of keystroke rhythm which tends to be very user specific. It should be appreciated that there are many possible behavior patterns that can be used to characterize individuals. Some will be stable over long time periods such as biometric readings while others will vary in fairly predictable ways depending on fatigue stress task complexity attention span and other factors. The use of a variety of such indicators with attention given to sudden changes and with adaptive learning in place so that over time a full model of a given user s range of patterns that is how the user s patterns vary under all conditions normally encountered can be built up enables a security management system according to the invention to quite reliably detect change of users and possibly even change of user attitude from normal to suspicious without a user having to participate actively or even without a user being aware that it is happening. It should be noted that passive multifactor authentication can be used not only for agents but also for customers or other calling or called parties. For example it is a statutory requirement that certain kinds of information concerning financial or healthcare matters or indeed concerning any private individually identifying information cannot be discussed with any but the relevant parties and that appropriate measures should be taken to ensure that this is adhered to. In some cases a caller might be identified by having them provide their name social security number address and possibly a personal identification number. But if a call session is long it is possible that this user could inadvertently allow another to join or take over the call for example if the original caller leaves the phone while the call is active to retrieve a required document . It may be crucial to detect when this occurs and to reauthenticate the caller when doubt arises detection can occur using passive means as just described.

In some embodiments of the invention passive authentication techniques are extended to include passive behavioral analysis as for example in the detection just mentioned of a shift from normal behavior patterns to a behavior pattern that may be characterized as suspicious or secretive. One form of passive behavioral monitoring that can be used according to the invention in layered speech analysis for fraud detection detection of user confusion which may lead to a prompt to a supervisor or coach to check on the user or detection of user fatigue detection of fatigue can assist in identifying optimal work patterns to maintain high productivity over longer periods of time by identifying particularly effective break patterns . Layered speech analysis refers to a technique of using analysis of a user s speech at multiple levels or layers. Examples of layers of information present in typical speech signals include the dynamic range of a speech signal and its variability for example sudden and large shifts in dynamic range could indicate stress while low dynamic range could indicate fatigue spectral content of a speech signal particularly where the spectrum of sound when particular words are spoken changes significantly which could variously indicate fatigue anger delight or a change in users word choices made length of pauses and the like. Additionally similar passive analysis can be applied to the second party to a phone call or more if it is a conference call for instance to detect stress in a customer s voice during a service call. In some embodiments comparison of layered speech analysis results with other data and metadata may be useful in detecting common patterns of behavior for example it might be determined that certain words are common buy signals for certain sets of callers but perhaps not for others . In some embodiments layered speech analysis is used to trigger rules that may for example provide prompts to an agent to offer a particular product to start or stop recording a call or to seek help from a supervisor or coach.

Real time or near real time layered speech analysis can be combined with results of offline voice data mining. For example a study of a large set of sales calls received in response to a particular television offer could lead to a determination that certain speech attributes accent stress levels word selection and the like provide strong buying signals. This information can be used during a call as input to layered speech analysis so that these speech attributes will be detected during future calls while calls are still in progress allowing agents for example to receive notifications that they should attempt to close a sale at a particular time. Similarly study of speech attributes during recorded calls that were later determined to be fraudulent in nature could determine that certain speech attributes should be considered as fraud warning signs and could trigger appropriate security responses in the future.

In some embodiments security zones may include the requirement of an additional person on a call or other session. For example if a rule is triggered that suggests that possibly an agent is exceeding his authority or that a caller is berating an agent the rule might require that a supervisor be summoned to join the call with or without the knowledge of the caller or the agent . Similarly if passive monitoring suggests that a caller is becoming annoyed or that an agent is having difficulty explaining something it may be desirable to automatically summon a supervisor. When agents are operating remotely from an enterprise whether at home at an outsourcer or in a satellite office it is often impossible to have a qualified supervisor from the enterprise assist an agent in person. But according to an embodiment of the invention when such rules are triggered a virtual contact center supervisor may be summoned. A virtual supervisor could be a person located remotely from the agent in need of supervision or it could be an automated system designed to record and monitor the interaction and to provide suggestions to the supervised user. When virtual contact center supervisors are summoned they are typically provided with access to the audio of the session and to a live view of everything that is happening on the agent s screen. In some cases even a customer s screen is made available as is common in technical support contact centers.

All of the embodiments described herein are exemplary in nature and should not be taken to limit the scope of the invention as claimed.

