---

title: Search engine optimization assistant
abstract: Website optimization methods and tools for optimizing visibility of a website to internet search engines. A website is automatically evaluated against one or more optimization tests based on one or more search terms. A report is generated along with tools that guide and prompt the user for user input that is used by the tools to directly edit content of the website to improve the visibility of the website to internet search engines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990206&OS=08990206&RS=08990206
owner: Vistaprint Schweiz GmbH
number: 08990206
owner_city: Winterthur
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20140211
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 861 222 filed Aug. 23 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 650 191 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to search engine optimization and more particularly to tools and methods for improving a website for search engine visibility.

The Internet is being increasingly used to relay information advertise and engage in e commerce. With the increase in web site building and publication tools many users who might not otherwise have the time or skill to create their own websites or the money to hire an outside consultant are now publishing to the World Wide Web. For example such tools often provide web page templates that allow a user to enter personalized content and select web page layout styles fonts colors etc. and then immediately publish the completed pages to the Internet.

A search engine is typically used by Internet users to find web pages relevant to user input search terms. In a typical search engine a user is presented with a web page which prompts the user for one or more search terms. Upon entry of the search term s the search engine scans its index of the World Wide Web to locate web pages that may have some relevancy to the input search terms. shows an example search engine results page. As shown a search engine results page typically includes a section containing paid search results and a section including organic search results. Paid search results are advertisements paid for by the advertiser and therefore may or may not be closely relevant to the search terms. Organic search results are results that are relevant in some manner to the input search terms. Search engines typically rank the organic search results by relevance of the content of the page to the search term such that those pages which have the closest relevance to the input search terms appear higher up in the search results than those less relevant.

At the present number of websites accessible over the Internet current estimates as of early 2010 are in the hundreds of millions of websites and as the number of web sites and web pages increases the importance of being visible in the organic search results within the first few search results pages cannot be underestimated.

Search Engine Optimization SEO is the process of optimizing a website so that it appears high up in search engine results pages. Search engines crawl the Internet ranking websites according to content of the websites. Many websites include metadata that does not get displayed as content of the website but is included in the HTML or other browser enabled source code and describes content of the website and keywords to enable search engines to identify the website as relevant to certain search terms. In order to get found online it is important for website designers to insert relevant and frequently searched for search terms in the metadata of the pages of the website.

SEO is a task that the website administrator normally has to do manually. The website administrator can be an individual who owns or maintains the website or may be an outside consultant whose business it is to design create and maintain websites. Because search engine optimization involves complex analytics and an understanding and ability to correspond search terms to a web page SEO has heretofore typically been managed by professional web site developers or other individuals who have developed the skill set needed to manage the website SEO.

Many small businesses and other individuals do not have the time knowledge or money to optimize their websites for Search Engine Optimization SEO . These customers need to be able to rank better in Search Engine Results Pages SERPs in order to be competitive and drive more business to their websites by getting found online.

Existing solutions to this problem are too expensive too complicated and require SEO knowledge that many website owners do not have. All known solutions involve a Do It For You approach. In one approach a consultant analyzes and optimizes the website for the website owner. In another approach tools are provided to the website owner administrator to perform a simple analysis of a website. However these tools do not automatically fix the items identified by the analysis or guide the user through ways to change the website to improve search engine visibility or provide realtime visibility into how updates to the website affect the visibility of the site to search engines.

In an embodiment a method for assisting a user in optimizing a website for search engine visibility includes having access to a website receiving one or more search terms and adding them to a list of search terms on which an analysis of the website will be based determining and displaying one or more suggested search terms that may be related to the received search terms performing an analysis of the website based on the list of search terms and the content of the website the analysis comprising testing a plurality of different aspects of the website according to criteria associated with testing the corresponding aspect of the website and providing access to a report the report displayable to the user and presenting at least one indicator associated with one or more tested aspects of the website that indicates how well the one or more tested aspects of the website scores in terms of optimization for visibility to search engines and at least one control which when activated by the user allows the user to enter input associated with one or more of the tested aspects of the website wherein the user s entry of the input causes update to website content associated with the one or more tested aspects of the website wherein the report includes one or more explanations to assist the user in entering user input that will result in an improvement to the individual score of the associated tested aspect of the website.

In an embodiment non transitory computer readable storage includes computer readable program instructions which when executed by one or more processors perform the method of the previous paragraph.

In an embodiment a website optimization apparatus for optimizing visibility of a website to internet search engines includes one or more processors and non transitory computer readable storage storing program instructions which when executed by the one or more processors accesses one or more pages of a website automatically evaluates the accessed one or more pages against one or more optimization tests based on one or more search terms and provides one or more tools that guide and prompt the user for user input that is used by the analyzer to directly edit content of the website to improve the visibility of the website to internet search engines.

Features include a website analysis tool a search term assistant tool quick fixer tools for fixing specific areas of the website to improve optimization of the website a content writing tool and individual indicators indicating the status optimized or unoptimized or a degree of optimization of specific areas of the website that are tested for SEO.

Systems may include any type of processor based system on which processes and methods consistent with the disclosed embodiments may be implemented. For example as illustrated in system may include one or more hardware and or software components configured to execute software programs. System may include one or more hardware components such as a central processing unit s CPU random access memory RAM module s read only memory ROM module s non transitory computer readable storage database s one or more input output I O devices and interface s . System may include one or more software components such as a computer readable medium including computer executable instructions for performing methods consistent with certain disclosed embodiments. One or more of the hardware components listed above may be implemented using software. For example storage may include a software partition associated with one or more other hardware components of system . System may include additional fewer and or different components than those listed above as the components listed above are exemplary only and not intended to be limiting.

CPU s may include one or more processors each configured to execute instructions and process data to perform one or more functions associated with system . As illustrated in CPU s may be communicatively coupled to RAM ROM storage database I O devices and interface . CPU may be configured to execute sequences of computer program instructions to perform various processes which will be described in detail below. The computer program instructions may be loaded into RAM for execution by CPU .

RAM and ROM may each include one or more devices for storing information associated with an operation of system and CPU . RAM may include a memory device for storing data associated with one or more operations of CPU . For example ROM may load instructions into RAM for execution by CPU . ROM may include a memory device configured to access and store information associated with system including information for identifying initializing and monitoring the operation of one or more components and subsystems of system

Storage may include any type of mass storage device configured to store information that CPU may need to perform processes consistent with the disclosed embodiments. For example storage may include one or more magnetic and or optical disk devices such as hard drives CD ROMs DVD ROMs or any other type of mass media device.

Database may include one or more software and or hardware components that cooperate to store organize sort filter and or arrange data used by system and CPU . For example database may include historical data from evaluating websites such as previous evaluation scores recommended improvements timelines for making the improvements and customer surveys. CPU may access the information stored in database for comparing the past recommended website improvements to the current state of a website.

I O devices may include one or more components configured to communicate information with a user associated with system . For example I O devices may include a console with an integrated keyboard and mouse to allow a user to input parameters associated with system . I O devices may also include a display such as a monitor including a graphical user interface GUI for outputting information. I O devices may also include peripheral devices such as for example a printer for printing information associated with system a user accessible disk drive e.g. a USB port a floppy CD ROM or DVD ROM drive etc. to allow a user to input data stored on a portable media device a microphone a speaker system or any other suitable type of interface device.

The results of received data may be provided as output from system to I O device for printed display viewing and or further communication to other system devices. Such output may include for example evaluation reports recommended changes to a website required changes to a website timelines for improving a website and other data consistent with evaluating websites. Output from system can also be provided to database and to other systems and web hosts to track website evaluations. Using this information websites may be evaluated and updated in a consistent manner allowing a company to provide information on products and services to a customer in a consistent user friendly manner.

Interface may include one or more components configured to transmit and receive data via a communication network such as the Internet a local area network a workstation peer to peer network a direct link network a wireless network or any other suitable communication platform. In this manner systems and web hosts may communicate through the use of a network architecture. The network architecture may include alone or in any suitable combination a telephone based network such as a PBX or POTS a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a dedicated intranet and or the Internet . Further the network architecture may include any suitable combination of wired and or wireless components and systems. For example interface may include one or more modulators demodulators multiplexers demultiplexers network communication devices wireless devices antennas modems and any other type of device configured to enable data communication via a communication network.

A browser executes in a system . A website owner or administrator or other user with authorization to modify a website may use the browser of the system to access the website they desire to optimize for search engine visibility. In this embodiment system may be for example a personal computer. In this embodiment a SEO Analysis Engine may be invoked to execute within the user s browser to access evaluate and generate recommended and required improvements to a website.

Web host servers may host one or more websites to systems over Internet . While not shown in servers include components similar to the systems including CPU s RAM ROM storage database s input output device s operating system and interface s and potentially a display and browser executing on the server. Server may also provide one or more website administration tools for example including a Website Building Tool and an SEO analysis tool. In an embodiment a user may set up and add edit remove content from their website by being authenticated to the website administration tool s and then launching the Website Building Tool s . In an embodiment the SEO analysis tool is integrated with the Website Building Tool in order to allow the user to optimize the content of the website for search engine visibility and to allow the user and or SEO analysis tool to directly modify content of the website within the same tool.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that all or part of systems and methods consistent with the present disclosure may be stored on or read from other non transitory computer readable storage. Website environment may include a computer readable medium having stored thereon machine executable instructions for performing among other things the methods disclosed herein. Exemplary computer readable storage may include secondary storage devices such as hard disks floppy disks and CD ROM a carrier wave tangibly embodied on a storage device or other forms of computer readable memory such as read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM . Such computer readable storage may be embodied by one or more components of website environment such as systems web hosts or combinations of these and other components.

Furthermore one skilled in the art will also realize that the processes illustrated in this description may be implemented in a variety of ways and include multiple other modules programs applications scripts processes threads or code sections that may all functionally interrelate with each other to accomplish the individual tasks described above for each module script and daemon. For example these programs modules may be implemented using commercially available software tools using custom object oriented code written in the C programming language using applets written in the Java programming language or may be implemented as with discrete electrical components or as one or more hardwired application specific integrated circuits ASIC custom designed for this purpose.

The described implementation may include a particular network configuration but embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented in a variety of data communication network environments using software hardware or a combination of hardware and software to provide the processing functions.

A Search Engine Optimization SEO Analysis engine which may reside on the user system or may be downloaded from a server receives or accesses one or more web pages of a website analyzes the pages and returns a set of analysis results. The SEO analysis engine is shown as integrated into a Website Building tool however it could alternatively be implemented as a standalone tool having its inputs outputs and internal components loosely coupled to the website being analyzed.

The SEO Analysis Engine is coupled through the server to a Copy Library which stores text copy for use as content in websites.

The SEO Analysis Engine is also coupled to or has integrated therein a Search Term Assistant which utilizes a keyword research tool . The Search Term Assistant is an interactive tool which runs in a user s browser and allows the user to conduct keyword research to choose effective words to optimize their website. The Search Term Assistant discussed in more detail hereinafter allows a user to input a keyword i.e. a search term and optionally select a region such as a country a state a city and then passes the information to the keyword research tool which searches for related search terms that are frequently searched for and corresponding search statistics. The keyword research tool returns the results and the Search Term Assistant displays the related search terms in order of popularity. With this knowledge the user can then include the identified popular keywords in their meta tags and content targeting the search terms that Internet users use most frequently.

In an embodiment the keyword research tool is a separate tool running on a remote server and the SEO Analysis Engine includes an Application Program Interface API which provides the inputs and controls for interfacing with the remote keyword research tool and which processes outputs from the remote keyword research tool to provide to the SEO Analysis Engine . In an embodiment the keyword research tool is a remote keyword research tool such as Google Insights. The SEO Analysis Engine includes domain data which populates dropdown menus and includes JavaScript to modify some parameters in the HTML code.

The SEO Analysis Engine also includes a report generator quick fixer tools and a content writing tool all described in more detail hereinafter.

While one example of website evaluating environment is shown and described relative to it will be understood that the website environment may include any type of environment associated with developing distributing evaluating updating and maintaining websites. Processes and methods consistent with the disclosed embodiments may provide a website evaluation and recommendation tool that reduces the potential for losing customers due to lack of consistency between independent dealer websites and a parent company. As a result dealer websites may be evaluated and updated allowing a company to provide information on products and services to a customer in a consistent manner. Exemplary processes and methods will now be described with reference to and .

The Website Building Tool includes editing tools that allow the user to insert and edit components of the web page currently displayed in the work area. These tools traditionally include tools for text insertion and formatting such as font and style selection margin and tab formatting image insertion link insertion widget insertion etc. layout and design tools including page insertion and management tools and a preview tool which allows a user to view the page as it will appear if and when published. In an exemplary embodiment the Website Building Tool also includes a link or button that invokes an SEO Analyzer tool.

Next as shown in the exemplary screen of the user is prompted at for search terms that the user thinks visitors to the user s website might enter in a search engine when looking for the user s website. To assist the user in selecting search terms that are more likely to drive traffic to the user s website the SEO Analyzer tool also provides an embedded application or widget that displays suggestions and popular search terms related to the currently entered search terms including the company name if entered country locality and any search terms the user enters in the search term text entry boxes . In an embodiment the embedded application is implemented using JavaScript Flash HTML DHTML CSS or other browser enabled web technology. In an embodiment the embedded application comprises browser enabled code which makes method calls on a web Application Programming Interface API of a 3 party application as exposed by the user s browser. In an embodiment the 3 party application is Google Insights which provides search term suggestions and or popular search terms related to the current search terms. In an embodiment as the user enters additional search terms the search term suggestions widget updates the display to reflect popular search terms relevant to the updated current set of search terms. In an embodiment the search term suggestions and or list of popular search terms are ranked by relevancy and or popularity and include a meter indicator indicating relative relevance popularity relative to the other search terms.

The user may change the current search terms and or enter additional search terms based on the user s perceived relevancy of the search term suggestions and popularity indicated by the search terms suggestion widget. When the user is satisfied with the list of search terms to be used for the SEO analysis the user clicks on a Finished button to launch the analysis.

The configuration screens depicted in may be displayed to the user the first time the user invokes the SEO Analyzer tool for the particular website. Thereafter the data captured through the configuration screens is saved and associated with the website but can be later altered through making changes to the website itself as discussed hereinafter . Once the configuration is first run thereafter when the user launches the SEO Analyzer tool by clicking the SEO analysis button in the Website Building Tool of and optionally additionally by clicking the confirmation button on the Confirmation screen of the SEO Analyzer tool automatically performs the analysis using the saved search terms.

Each of the individual tests is assigned a corresponding weight. The website is evaluated according to each individual test and the output of each test presents with a score. Preferably the scores are all normalized to a 0 100 scale. Some tests may have a decimal or percentage output for example images having an tag . Some tests have may have a boolean value e.g. Site has a site map 0 if no 1 if yes which are then translated into 0 and 100 . Additionally the output of some tests may have a desired target range for example search term density discussed in more detail hereinafter which is then translated to a 0 100 scale.

The individual tests may be categorized into different categories for example General Site Structure Pages in Site Structure Images in Site Structure General Content and Search Terms and a score for each category may be calculated by summing the weighted scores of each individual test belonging to the particular category. Each category may further be weighted. An overall website optimization score is generated in this embodiment by summing the weighted values of each category score. The overall website optimization score should be normalized so that it ranges between 0 and 100 .

Referring to the overall optimization score is displayed to the user along with a list of the search terms used in analyzing the website to generate the score. In the illustrative embodiment the overall optimization score is displayed as a percentage between 0 reflecting not optimized for search engine visibility and 100 reflection full website optimization per the specific algorithm used to calculate the score . The Scoring screen may also include a link to view a full report which includes detailed scoring of various tests of the website and links to page s to make changes to improve the SEO rating of the website for example a link to a Quick Fix page and a link to a content writing assistant . From the Scoring page the user can choose to view the report that was generated by the SEO Analyzer tool by clicking on the View Report button or choose to begin making changes to the website to try to improve the overall SEO score of the website by clicking the Quick Fixers button or the Content Optimization button .

Additional user input fields associated with additional different SEO criteria related to specific individual tests may also be provided in the General Site Structure Quick Fixer popup. For example text entry boxes and explanation may be provided for optimizing the content of the Company Message Meta Keywords Footer Links the URL structure and the XML Site Map. Quick Fixer features operate similarly in terms of providing explanation and dynamically indicating how well the individual criteria scores for SEO.

Preferably as with all the SEO Report pages which show test scores the Pages page of the SEO Report includes one or more links to corresponding Quick Fixer dialogs which guide the user through making changes to the website that are associated with the specific criteria used to score the associated test s represented by the particular score s . For example illustrates an exemplary popup window that is displayed to the user upon the user clicking on the Quick Fixer link in the Pages page of the SEO Report of . As shown the Pages Quick Fixer popup dialog displays suggestions of how to improve the content of the website related to the Pages category of SEO and prompts the user for initial content or to edit current content which is specific to the criteria used to score the individual tests for the Pages category. A score may be displayed for the current contents of each text entry box to indicate to the user how the current contents in the associated text entry box score relative to the test. For example in the Home Page text entry box may be edited and the Page Description text entry box may be edited to generate the Page Description score as indicated. If a user edits the Home Page the test associated with that score may be rerun and the overall score see is updated to reflect the impact that the updated edits have on the score for the Home Page. Likewise when the user enters or edits the content in the text entry box associated with the Page Description see both the Page Description score and the the Home Page score is preferably updated to reflect the Home Page score of the Home Page with the updated Page Description content. When the user is finished updating the Quick Fix content associated with the Pages category for SEO the user can return to viewing the SEO Report by clicking on the Finished button or can return without making changes by clicking on the Back button or Cancel button.

The user can then view the page of the SEO Report relating to the Images category of the website Site Structure by clicking on the link see in the SEO Report page or by clicking on the Next button .

The user can then view the page of the SEO Report relating to the General category of the website Content by clicking on the corresponding link in the SEO Report page or by clicking on the Next button. depicts an exemplary page of an SEO Report pertaining to the Content of the website in general. Identifiers Length and Freshness identify the general tests of the overall content of the website. The score is associated with each test is also displayed to give the user an idea of how the content fares in relation to these tests and whether or not the content needs to be changed or updated to improve the SEO of the website.

The user can then view the page of the SEO Report relating to the Search Terms category of the website Content by clicking on the corresponding link in the SEO Report page or by clicking on the Next button . depicts an exemplary page of an SEO Report pertaining to the Search Terms in the Content of the website. In an embodiment each Search Term is identified etc. along with a corresponding strength test score etc. which indicates how the website performs in search engine rankings against the search term. In an embodiment one or more pages of the website are identified as performing best against the corresponding search term. Alternatively or in addition the page could also include identifiers of the poorest performing page s or a score for each page. The Search Terms page of the SEO Report may also include an indicator indicating the ratio of Content to Search Terms which should not be too high or ratio of Search Terms to Content which should not be too low . This indicates whether more search terms should be added to the text of the website content in order to improve SEO. When the user is finished optimizing the search terms the user clicks on the Done button .

The user may be returned to the page shown in or alternatively the flow may take the path of one or more additional pages. depicts an exemplary page displayed to the user upon clicking the Done button in the page of . In order to improve the Content of the website the user is provided with an Optimize Content link which when activated by a user launches one or more applications that provides the user with education and assists the user in writing effective content for one or more pages of the website. Preferably a link to the Optimize Content page is accessible from all web pages windows dialogs and pop ups presented by the SEO engine or at least those pages windows dialogs and or pop ups specific to the Content category of the website.

The depicts a popup menu that is displayed to the user upon activation of the Optimize Content link . The popup menu provides links to a Search Assistant which assists the user in selecting highly used search terms to use within the content of the website a Writing Wizard which assists the user in writing content for pages and sections of the website and a Writing Tips tool which educates the user in how to write content for high visibility to search engines.

The importance of having good search terms for visibility to search engines cannot be underestimated. One or more links to the Search Term Assistant is provided within the SEO engine flow to allow the user to take advantage of search statistics to select search terms that are popular in the industry or topic s of relevance of the particular website being analyzed. For example a link to the Search Term Assistant is placed on the popup menu of and the popup of . Activation of the Search Term Assistant link may cause a popup to be displayed or a web page such as that of . The Search Term Assistant presents the current search terms preferably in an editable text entry box. Preferably the Search Term Assistant presents a score next to each search term and also provides suggestions for popular most search for in a known range of time and known geography search terms that may be related to the current search terms or other information known or derived by the SEO engine from the user s website.

Returning to the user can activate a Writing Wizard which assists the user in writing content. When the Writing Wizard link is activated the user may be presented with a web page such as that shown in . As illustrated the Writing Wizard assists the user in writing content by prompting the user for information specific to the industry of the business promoted by the website or purpose of the website and then locates pre written content in the content database and pre populates the selection section of the website with the pre written content. The pre written content is content for example text that may be general to a particular industry or purpose. In an embodiment the user is prompted for the desired section of the website in selection menu and the particular purpose in selection menus . For example a user may select a section and purpose of the website from a dropdown menu. The user may further be prompted for an industry which the website belongs to. The user may further be prompted for a sub industry within the general industry. Additional prompts may be implemented to elicit as much information from the user as possible about the type of text that the user desires to see and which is appropriate for the selected section of the website. Alternatively the information elicited from the user such as the industry sub industry etc. may be previously stored and associated with the website when the user first configures the website or edits the website. In addition this information may be obtained automatically by the SEO engine by parsing the current content of the website. Based on the inputs received from the prompts e.g. website section section purpose industry sub industry etc. the Writing Wizard searches the copy database or library see for pre written content associated with the input set of parameters and places it in an editable text box .

In an embodiment the pre written text comprises text copy that is pre written by a designer or copy artist that is likely to be relevant to the particular website section section purpose industry and sub industry associated with that pre written text. In order to improve the search engine visibility the pre written text includes fill in the blank words or phrases that indicates to the user to enter various information specific to their business trade or other purpose of the website or website section. For example in the fill in the blank indications are the words that are enclosed by the tags and and are further highlighted to catch the user s attention. In addition the instructions indicate to the user to fill in specific information as requested in the highlighted areas. Preferably the entire pre written text is editable by the user so that the user can reword add delete and otherwise modify the text. A control such as a Finished button is provided to allow the user to indicate that the user is satisfied with the current text and to indicate to the Writing Wizard that the current text should be inserted in the website at the selected website section.

Throughout the flow of the SEO Analyzer multiple links are accessible to the user on multiple pages to access the various tools provided by the analyzer. For example the user can re run the SEO Report skip to Quick Fixers jump to the Writing Wizard and update the Search Terms from multiple pages in the SEO Analyzer flow. This allows maximum flexibility to the user yet also provides a guided tour in which the output is a maximally optimized website for search engine visibility if the user simply follows each Next link in the tour and provides the prompted information at each page or popup.

The user may further be prompted for one or more terms that describe the business or content of the website step . The general topic may be a general industry or a general subject matter. If the purpose of the website is to promote a business the general topic is preferably a general industry. In an embodiment the user may select the general topic from a list of choices presented in a drop down list. If the purpose of the website is to promote an organization such as a non profit organization or a club or an individual s personal website the general topic is preferably a general subject matter.

The user may additionally be prompted for a name of the company or topic being promoted in the website step . The terms and phrases input by the user in steps and are added to a list of search terms on which the subsequent website analysis will be based step .

The user may further be prompted for a location such as where the user s business is located step . The location may be added to the list of search terms on which the website analysis will be based step . The location will also be used by the SEO engine to present search term suggestions that people located near the business are currently searching for.

After collecting the list of search terms the SEO engine performs an analysis of the website based on the list of search terms and the content including metadata of the website step . To perform the analysis the SEO engine tests various aspects of the website according to criteria associated with tests for the individual aspects of the website step . Preferably individual scores for each tested aspect are calculated. An overall score may be generated based on the scores of the individual tests step . The analysis includes the generation of a report step which may be displayed step to the user preferably within a website building tool where the user can make changes directly to the website while viewing or switching in and out of the report.

The report presents a plurality of indicators associated with the various tested aspects of the website step . Each indicator indicates how the website scores in terms of the tested aspect of the website. One or more quick fix links or other website control is provided step which when activated by the user step provides one or more user input text entry boxes or other user input controls step which prompt the user for particular input that will be applied to a corresponding aspect of the content of the website. In addition to the user input prompts for specific user input the user is provided with assistance step in terms of explanation or tips that are designed to educate the user to maximize the optimization of the website for the corresponding particular aspect associated with the user input prompts for maximizing visibility of the website to search engines. Upon receiving user input associated with a corresponding aspect of the content of the website step the SEO engine causes the updating of content of the website corresponding to the particular aspect of the website for which the user input was solicited step . This can be in the form of automatic insertion and or updating of metadata of the website or updating or editing content of the website that will be visible to a visitor to the website when published. In an embodiment the SEO engine is integrated into the Website Building Tool and can automatically edit and make changes to the content such that the changes to the content correlate to the user input corresponding to a particular aspect of the website.

The SEO engine also provides a content writing tool step which provides explanation for writing content optimized for search engine visibility and provides one or more controls for allowing the user to select from a plurality of pre written text copy that is relevant to the subject matter of the website step . In an embodiment the content writing tool elicits information about the type of text that the user desires to populate at least one section of the website step selects text copy from a text copy database appropriate to the elicited information step and populates the at least one section of the website with the selected text copy step . The selected text copy may include one or more editable sections that allow the user to customize the inserted text copy specific to the user s website. For example in an embodiment the text copy may include one or more customizable terms or phrases that the user should provide to customize the copy to the subject matter and purpose of the website. The user may be prompted for these customizable terms or phrases step .

The SEO engine also provides one or more controls which assist the user in selecting one or more search terms for SEO step . These search terms are used in writing the content for the website and are what the analysis is based on. In an embodiment a Search Term Assistant tool is provided within the SEO engine flow to allow the user to take advantage of search statistics to select search terms that are popular in the industry or associated with topic s of relevance of the particular website being analyzed. In an embodiment suggestions for popular search terms that may be related to the current search terms or other information known or derived by the SEO engine from the user s website are displayed step along with a score or other ranking for each search term step .

Although this preferred embodiment of the present invention has been disclosed for illustrative purposes those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications additions and substitutions are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as disclosed in the accompanying claims. It is also possible that other benefits or uses of the currently disclosed invention will become apparent over time.

