---

title: Systems and methods to adjust irrigation
abstract: An irrigation system includes an irrigation controller with an adjust feature and at least one sensor. The irrigation system further includes a sensor control unit operatively connected to the irrigation controller and the at least one sensor. The sensor control unit is configured to calculate an irrigation value using a signal from the sensor and to automatically modify a watering schedule of the irrigation controller through the adjust feature based on the irrigation value to thereby conserve water while maintaining plant health.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09301461&OS=09301461&RS=09301461
owner: HUNTER INDUSTRIES, INC.
number: 09301461
owner_city: San Marcos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140224
---
Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57.

Electronic irrigation controllers are used on residential and commercial sites to water turf and landscaping. They typically comprise a plastic housing that encloses circuitry including a processor that executes a watering program. Watering schedules are typically manually entered or selected by a user with pushbutton and or rotary controls while observing a display. The processor turns a plurality of solenoid actuated valves ON and OFF with solid state switches according to the watering schedules that are carried out by the watering program. The valves deliver water to sprinklers connected by subterranean pipes.

There is a large demand for conventional irrigation controllers that are easy for users to set up and modify watering schedules. The user simply enters the start times for a selected watering schedule assigns a station to one or more schedules and sets each station to run a predetermined number of minutes to meet the irrigation needs of the site. The problem with conventional irrigation controllers is that they are often set up to provide the maximum amount of irrigation required for the hottest and driest season and then either left that way for the whole year or in some cases the watering schedules are modified once or twice per year by the user. The result is that large amounts of water are wasted. Water is a precious natural resource and there is an increasing need to conserve it.

In an embodiment an irrigation system to irrigate an irrigation site comprises an irrigation controller at least one sensor configured to generate a signal representative of an irrigation condition and a control unit. The irrigation controller comprises a plurality of user inputs that enable a user to enter a watering schedule including a run time and to manually adjust an adjustment value of an adjustment feature. The adjustment feature is configured to modify the run time of the watering program by the adjustment value.

In an embodiment the irrigation controller further comprises a computer processor operatively connected to the plurality of user inputs and a memory connected to the computer processor where programming stored in the memory implements the adjustment feature to change the run time of the watering schedule by the adjustment value.

In one embodiment the adjustment feature is a percentage adjustment feature and the adjustment value is a percentage adjustment value where the percentage adjustment value is a percentage. For example the watering program can be set up by the user to water for 30 minutes on selected days. In dry summer months the user can set the percentage adjustment value to 50 and the irrigation controller adjusts the run time by the percentage adjustment value. In this example the irrigation controller adjusts the run time by 50 or adjusts the run time to 45 minutes on the selected days based on the user entered percentage adjustment value.

The sensors can be for example but not limited to one or more of soil moisture sensors weather stations rain sensors humidity sensors temperature sensors solar radiation sensors wind sensors and the like. An irrigation condition is a condition that provides an indication of the need or lack of need for irrigation of the irrigation site. For example the irrigation condition at the irrigation site can be for example but not limited to one or more of a soil moisture level of the soil an amount of recent rain fall humidity and or temperature of the air an amount of solar radiation wind velocity and or direction and the like. In certain embodiments the one or more sensors comprise a plurality of soil moisture sensors.

The control unit comprises a memory storing programming that calculates an irrigation value using the signal from the at least one sensor and communicates an irrigation adjustment value based at least in part on the irrigation value to the computer processor of the stand alone irrigation controller to automatically modify the percentage adjustment value based on the irrigation adjustment value. For example the summer is not as hot and dry as the user expected and watering for 45 minutes on the selected days is too much water for the plants. If for example the at least one sensor comprises a soil moisture sensor and the signal from the soil moisture sensor indicates that the soil is moist then the control unit calculates an irrigation value using the soil moisture level indicated by the soil moisture sensor and determines an irrigation adjustment value based at least in part on the irrigation value.

The irrigation controller receives the irrigation adjustment value from the control unit and automatically adjusts the adjustment value by the irrigation adjustment value which in turn automatically adjusts the run time of the watering schedule. For example the control unit determines that the run time for the current soil moisture level should be adjusted by only 10 . The irrigation controller then automatically adjusts the percentage adjustment value to 10 such that the run time becomes 33 minutes for the watering program associated with the soil moisture sensor.

In further embodiments the irrigation system iteratively repeats this process to fine tune the irrigation of the irrigation site by providing successive automatic adjustments to the adjustment value.

According to various embodiments an irrigation system is disclosed. The irrigation system comprises a stand alone irrigation controller comprising a plurality of user inputs that enable a user to enter a watering schedule including a run time and to manually adjust a percentage adjustment value of a percentage adjustment feature a computer processor operatively connected to the plurality of user inputs and a memory connected to the computer processor wherein programming stored in the memory implements the percentage adjustment feature to change the run time of the watering schedule by the percentage adjustment value. The irrigation system further comprises at least one sensor configured to generate a signal representative of an irrigation condition and a stand alone control unit comprising a memory storing programming that calculates an irrigation value using the signal from the at least one sensor and communicates an irrigation adjustment value based at least in part on the irrigation value to the computer processor of the stand alone irrigation controller to automatically modify the percentage adjustment value based on the irrigation adjustment value.

In an embodiment the irrigation value is calculated using the signal from the at least one sensor and a reference point. In another embodiment the reference point is calculated based on constants selected to simulate local conditions of an irrigation site. In a further embodiment the stand alone control unit further comprises at least one user input that enables the user to change the reference point.

In an embodiment the at least one sensor comprises at least one environmental sensor and the signal from the at least one sensor comprises an indication of at least one of temperature humidity solar radiation wind and rain. In another embodiment the at least one sensor comprises at least one soil moisture sensor and the signal from the at least one sensor comprises an indication of soil moisture. In a further embodiment the percentage adjustment value comprises a scaling factor. In a yet further embodiment the stand alone control unit further comprises a hand held housing. In another embodiment the stand alone control unit further comprises a protective housing. In another embodiment the stand alone control unit further comprises a housing that is mountable to a housing of the stand alone irrigation controller.

In certain embodiments an irrigation system is disclosed. The irrigation system comprises a plurality of user inputs that enable a user to enter a watering schedule including a run time and to manually adjust a percentage adjustment value of a percentage adjustment feature a computer processor operatively connected to the plurality of user inputs a memory connected to the computer processor to store the watering schedule at least one sensor configured to generate a signal representative of an irrigation condition where the computer processor is configured to calculate an irrigation value based at least in part on the signal from the at least one sensor and to determine an irrigation adjustment value responsive to the irrigation value and programming stored in the memory to implement the percentage adjustment feature to modify the run time of the watering schedule by the percentage adjustment value. The programming automatically modifies the percentage adjustment value based on the irrigation adjustment value.

In an embodiment the at least one sensor comprises at least one soil moisture sensor and a temperature sensor and the irrigation value is calculated using signals from the at least one soil moisture sensor and the temperature sensor. In another embodiment the irrigation value is further based on one or more constants configured to approximate local environmental conditions of an irrigation site. In a further embodiment the irrigation adjustment value is a percentage.

In accordance with various embodiments a method to irrigate an irrigation site is disclosed. The method comprises accepting inputs from a user that enable the user to enter a watering schedule including a run time and to manually adjust a percentage adjustment value of a percentage adjustment feature configured to change the watering schedule by the percentage adjustment value receiving a signal representative of an irrigation condition on an irrigation site determining an irrigation adjustment value based on the signal implementing the percentage adjustment feature by modifying the run time of the watering schedule by the percentage adjustment value and automatically adjusting the percentage adjustment value based on the irrigation adjustment value.

In an embodiment the method further comprises calculating an irrigation value based at least in part on the signal and one or more constants representative of a geographic region associated with the irrigation site and determining the irrigation adjustment value based on the irrigation value. In another embodiment the method further comprises automatically shutting down irrigation based at least in part on detecting a rain event. In a yet further embodiment the method further comprises automatically shutting down irrigation based at least in part on detecting a freeze event.

For purposes of summarizing the disclosure certain aspects advantages and novel features of the embodiments have been described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment of the invention. Thus the inventions may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

The entire disclosures of the following U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference U.S. Pat. No. 5 097 861 granted Mar. 24 1992 of Hopkins et al. entitled IRRIGATION METHOD AND CONTROL SYSTEM U.S. Pat. No. 5 444 611 granted Aug. 22 1995 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled LAWN AND GARDEN IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. Pat. No. 5 829 678 granted Nov. 3 1998 of Richard E. Hunter et al. entitled SELF CLEANING IRRIGATION REGULATOR VALVE APPARATUS U.S. Pat. No. 6 088 621 granted Jul. 11 2000 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled PORTABLE APPARATUS FOR RAPID REPROGRAMMING OF IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630 granted Apr. 13 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled EXPANDABLE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH OPTIONAL HIGH DENSITY STATION MODULE U.S. Pat. No. 6 842 667 granted Jan. 11 2005 of Beutler et al. entitled POSITIVE STATION MODULE LOCKING MECHANISM FOR EXPANDABLE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 115 granted June 27 of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled HYBRID MODULAR DECODER IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. Pat. No. 7 853 363 granted Dec. 14 2010 Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled EVAPOTRANSPIRATION UNIT CONNECTABLE TO IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. Pat. No. 7 412 303 granted Aug. 12 2008 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. and entitled EVAPOTRANSPIRATION UNIT FOR RE PROGRAMMING AN IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. Pat. No. 7 245 991 granted Jul. 17 2007 of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled DISTRIBUTED ARCHITECTURE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. Pat. No. 7 289 886 of Peter J. Woytowitz granted Oct. 30 2007 entitled MODULAR IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH SEPARATE FIELD VALVE LINE WIRING TERMINALS U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 058 granted May 29 2007 of LaMonte D. Porter entitled MODULAR IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH INDIRECTLY POWERED STATION MODULES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 458 551 filed Jul. 19 2006 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. entitled IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH INTERCHANGEABLE CONTROL PANEL pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 042 301 filed Mar. 4 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH SELECTABLE WATERING RESTRICTIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 181 894 filed Jul. 29 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION SYSTEM WITH ET BASED SEASONAL WATERING ADJUSTMENT U.S. Pat. No. 7 953 517 granted May 31 2011 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. entitled LANDSCAPE CONTROLLER WITH CONTROL PANEL INSERTABLE FEATURE MODULE and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 251 179 filed Oct. 14 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION SYSTEM WITH SOIL MOISTURE BASED SEASONAL WATERING ADJUSTMENT. The aforementioned U.S. patents and applications are all assigned to Hunter Industries Inc. the assignee of the subject application.

A conventional irrigation controller of the type that is used in the commercial market typically includes a seasonal adjustment feature. This feature is typically a global adjustment implemented by the user that adjusts the overall watering as a percentage of the originally scheduled cycle times. It is common for the seasonal adjustment to vary between a range of about ten percent to about one hundred and fifty percent or more of the scheduled watering. This is the simplest and most common overall watering adjustment that users of irrigation controllers can effectuate. Users can move the amount of adjustment down ten to thirty percent in the winter depending on their local requirements. They may run the system at fifty percent during the spring or fall seasons and then at one hundred percent for the summer. The ability to seasonally adjust up to one hundred and fifty percent or more of the scheduled watering accommodates the occasional heat wave when turf and landscaping require significantly increased watering.

The seasonal adjustment feature does not produce the optimum watering schedules because it does not take into consideration factors such as moisture that is actually available in the soil type plant type slope temperature humidity solar radiation wind speed etc. for the plants to utilize for healthy growth. Instead the seasonal adjustment feature is manually set to adjust the watering schedules globally to run a longer or shorter period of time based on the existing watering schedule. So a considerable amount of water is wasted or turf and landscaping die.

Embodiments of the irrigation system automatically modify watering schedules based on sensor data in order to conserve water and effectively irrigate vegetation throughout the year as weather conditions vary. Embodiments of the user friendly irrigation system are capable of saving a significant amount of water but are still able to be used by non professionals.

Referring to in an embodiment an irrigation system comprises a stand alone irrigation controller connected via cable to a stand alone sensor control unit that is in turn connected via cable to a sensor . The irrigation controller and sensor control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors.

The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the sensor control unit and the sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands are sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. The controller sensor control unit and sensor may exchange data and commands via wireless communication links and . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller . In an embodiment the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone sensor control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall.

In an embodiment the sensor comprises a weather station and the sensor control unit comprises an evapotranspiration ET control unit . The weather station is typically mounted on an exterior wall gutter post or fence near the garage and the irrigation system may employ a hard wired communication link between the stand alone ET control unit and the weather station .

In another embodiment the sensor comprises one or more soil moisture sensors and the sensor control unit comprises a soil moisture control unit . The soil moisture control unit may be manufactured to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . The soil moisture sensor is typically mounted in the ground at a place that represents the typical moisture content of the irrigated area and the irrigation system may employ a wireless communication link between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and one or more soil moisture sensors .

The face pack encloses and supports a printed circuit board not illustrated with a processor for executing and implementing a stored watering program. An electrical connection is made between the face pack and the components in the back panel through a detachable ribbon cable including a plurality of conductors . The circuitry inside the face pack can be powered by a battery to allow a person to remove the face pack un plug the ribbon cable and walk around the lawn garden area or golf course while entering watering schedules or altering pre existing watering schedules.

A processor is mounted on the printed circuit board inside the face pack . A watering program stored in a memory is executable by the processor to enable the processor to generate commands for selectively turning a plurality of solenoid actuated irrigation valves not illustrated ON and OFF in accordance with the selected or entered watering schedule. An example of such an irrigation valve is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 996 608 granted Dec. 7 1999 of Richard E. Hunter et al. entitled DIAPHRAGM VALVE WITH FILTER SCREEN AND MOVEABLE WIPER ELEMENT the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Said patent is also assigned to Hunter Industries Inc. Typically the solenoid actuated valves are mounted in subterranean plastic boxes not illustrated on the irrigated site.

The processor communicates with removable modules and each containing a circuit that includes a plurality of solid state switches such as triacs. These switches turn 24VAC current ON and OFF to open and close corresponding solenoid actuated valves via connected to dedicated field valve wires and a common return line to screw terminals on the modules and 

In the modules and are shown installed in side by side fashion in station module receptacles formed in the back panel . The module serves as a base module that can turn a master valve ON and OFF in addition to a plurality of separate station valves. Each module includes an outer generally rectangular plastic housing with a slot at its forward end. A small printed circuit board not illustrated within the module housing supports the station module circuit that includes conductive traces that lead to the screw terminals and to V shaped spring type electrical contacts not illustrated that are accessible via the slot in the forward end of the module housing. These V shaped electrical contacts register with corresponding flat electrical contacts on the underside of a relatively large printed circuit board mounted inside the back panel when the module is slid into its corresponding receptacle. The relatively large printed circuit board is referred to as a backplane. The base module and station modules and the backplane are thus electrically and mechanically connected in releasable fashion through a so called card edge connection scheme when the base module and station modules are inserted or plugged into their respective receptacles.

An elongate locking bar can be manually slid up and down between locked and unlocked positions to secure and un secure the modules and after they have been fully inserted into their respective receptacles. Opposing raised projections formed on the locking bar facilitate sliding the locking bar with a thumb. A pointer extends from one of the raised projections and serves as a position indicator that aligns with LOCKED and UNLOCKED indicia not illustrated molded into the upper surface of another plastic support structure mounted inside back panel .

The receptacles for the modules such as and are partially defined by vertical walls formed on the back panel . Vertical walls also formed on the back panel to provide support to the modules and . An auxiliary terminal strip provides additional screw terminals for connecting remote sensors and accessories. The term receptacles should be broadly construed as defined in one or more of the patents and pending applications incorporated by reference above.

The electronic components are mounted on printed circuit boards contained within the face pack back panel base module and station modules . The processor is mounted on the printed circuit board inside the face pack and executes the watering program stored in the memory . By way of example the processor may be a Samsung S3F8289 processor a Microchip PIC24FJ256GAI 06 processor or the like that executes a program stored in the separate memory which can be an industry standard designation Serial EEPROM 93AA6A non volatile memory device. Alternatively the processor and memory may be provided in the form of a micro computer with on chip memory. The manually actuable controls and and the LCD display of the face pack are connected to the processor . The processor sends drive signals through buffer and backplane to the base module . By way of example the buffer may be an industry standard designation 74HC125 device a Fairchild semiconductor 6N136 or equivalent device. The processor sends data signals to the modules through buffer . The buffer may be an H bridge buffer including industry standard 2N3904 3906 discrete bipolar transistors.

The processor controls the base module and the station modules in accordance with one or more watering schedules. Serial or multiplexed communication is enabled via the backplane to the base module and to each of the output modules . Suitable synchronous serial data and asynchronous serial data station module circuits are disclosed in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630. The location of each module in terms of which receptacle it is plugged into is sensed using resistors on the backplane and a comparator which may be an industry standard LM393 device. The face pack receives 24VAC power from the transformer through the backplane and regulates the same via a power supply circuit . The power supply circuit includes a National Semiconductor LM7906 voltage regulator a Microchip Technology MCP101 450 a TC54VN45202 or equivalent power supervisor and a Samsung KA431 a Microchip MCP1702T 3302A or equivalent voltage regulator. A lithium battery such as an industry standard CR2032 battery is included in the power supply circuit and provides backup power to the micro controller to maintain the internal clock in the event of a power failure. The face pack ribbon cable that connects the face pack and the backplane can be disconnected and a nine volt battery then supplies power to the face pack . This allows a user to remove the face pack from the back panel and enter or modify watering schedules as the user walks around the irrigation site.

The modules and have contacts on the top sides of their outer plastic housings. When the modules are first plugged into their receptacles only a communication path is established with the processor via the backplane . At this time the locking bar is in its UNLOCKED position. Thereafter when the locking bar is slid to its LOCKED position finger like contacts on the underside of the locking bar register with the contacts on the tops of the modules and to supply 24VAC power to the modules that is switched ON and OFF to the valves that are connected to the modules. The finger like contacts are connected to a common conductor carried by the locking bar . When the locking bar is slid to its LOCKED position projections and tabs that extend from the locking bar and the modules are aligned to prevent withdrawal of the modules. See the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 058 for further details.

The power module circuit also accepts the field sensor signals. These sensors may be normally open or normally closed contacts pulse flow or other proprietary signals such as those used in the Hunter ET System. The sensor signals are first applied to the Sensor interface circuit which contains an industry standard LM393 comparator. The sensor interface circuit feeds a bank of optoisolators typically comprised of industry standard 4N25 devices. The optoisolators feed the Power Module microcontroller which is a Microchip PIC 16F684. This device interprets the now conditioned and isolated sensor signals and communicates their status to the front panel via the sensor communication line. The sensor communication line can also send information from the front panel to the power module such as what type of sensor is connected. This information is useful in helping the power module determine how to power the sensor and interpret its signals. It may also be advantageous to allow the microcontroller in the power module to be aware of the status of the station outputs in the controller. For instance if the power module is sensing flow but no stations are on it can alert the front panel of this fact. The module data is therefore also brought into a pin on the power module microcontroller.

Yet another function of the power module is to sense the current being drawn by the solenoid valves in the field. This is accomplished via the current sensing circuit. A raw current signal is brought into the power module on the I Sense line from the backplane. The current sensing circuit serves two functions. It uses an industry standard LM393 comparator to monitor the instantaneous current and compare it to a pre set limit. If the instantaneous current exceeds this limit the over current signal goes active and alerts the front panel of the problem so that the outputs may immediately be shut down. The current sense circuit also provides a current sense signal to the front panel. This signal represents a filtered scaled version of the I Sense signal. It is generated using an industry standard LM358 op amp to amplify peak detect and filter the I Sense signal. The front panel can use the current sense signal to display the actual current being drawn by the solenoid actuated valves. It can also use this information to determine if there is enough power capacity left in the controller to turn another solenoid ON.

The power module has several power supplies in it. All the supplies are fed with an unregulated 24VAC signal from the slide bar contact. This signal is first rectified and filtered then sent to various regulators and also back out to the backplane on the VRA W line. A pre regulator comprised of an industry standard LM7912 generates a 12V signal. This signal is fed into an industry standard LM7905 regulator which supplied a minus five volt output. This minus five volt output is used as the logic ground for the entire controller. The power module also contains a separate rectifier and filter for a plus 24VDC voltage regulator comprised of an industry standard LM7824. This 24VDC signal is used to power the sensors.

Referring to the station module circuit further includes triacs for switching the 24VAC signal ON and OFF to six different solenoid actuated valves. The 24VAC signal is supplied to triac via contact and line . The 24VAC signal from each triac is routed through an inductor MOV network including Epcos Inc. SIOK35 MOV s for surge protection to six field valve lines each of which can be connected to a corresponding solenoid actuated valve.

Referring to AW this watering program enables the processor to generate commands for selectively turning the plurality of valves ON and OFF in accordance with the selected or entered watering schedules. The watering program includes a seasonal adjustment feature that provides the capability for automatically modifying the watering schedules to thereby conserve water while maintaining plant health. By actuating one of the push buttons or the user can increase or decrease the run types for all stations by a selected scaling factor such as ten percent to account for seasonal variations in temperature and rainfall.

Referring to BP these watering programs enables the processor to generate commands for selectively turning the plurality of valves ON and OFF in accordance with the selected or entered watering schedules. The watering programs each include one or more seasonal adjustment features that provides the capability for automatically modifying the watering schedules to thereby conserve water while maintaining plant health. By actuating one of the push buttons or the user can increase or decrease the run times for the assigned stations by a selected scaling factor such as ten percent to account for seasonal variations in temperature and rainfall. Different watering programs may be programmed for different zones. A zone is typically an area of turf or plantings watered by one or more sprinklers supplied with water from the same solenoid actuated valve. In accordance with the present invention the soil moisture sensors are each physically buried in the soil of a corresponding zone so that the signal output therefrom can be used to calculate a soil moisture requirement value for that zone.

Referring to the stand alone sensor control unit includes a rectangular outer plastic housing enclosing a printed circuit board not illustrated which supports the electronic circuit of the sensor control unit that is illustrated in the block diagram of . A microcontroller such as a Microchip PIC18F65J90 processor executes firmware programming stored in a memory such as an industry standard 93AA66A EEPROM memory. The microcontroller can receive DC power from a lithium battery such as an industry standard CR2032 battery which allows accurate time keeping in the event of a power failure. Insulating strip must be manually pulled out to establish an operative connection of the battery . External power for the sensor control unit is supplied from the transformer via the cable . The 24VAC power from the transformer is supplied to a rectifier filter circuit which supplies twenty four volt DC power to a power regulation circuit which may be an STMicroelectronics L78M24CDT TR regulator. Power from the power regulation circuit is fed to a microcontroller power regulator which may be a Microchip MCP 1702T 25021 CB regulator. Power from the power regulation circuit is also fed to a wired or wireless sensor communications device that may include by way of example an industry standard MMBTA92 for the signal transmitter and an industry standard LM393 comparator for the receiver.

Column indicia are illustrated diagrammatically as A E in due to space constraints in the drawing. The sensor control unit can be manufactured to work with a variety of different sensors . Different sensors may have different set up requirements. As a result A E may be labeled differently depending on which type of sensor it is designed to control. The labels of A E may be selected from but not limited to TIME REGION MOISTURE SENSOR TYPE SOIL TYPE SENSOR DEPTH TEMPERATURE SENSOR TYPE CALIBRATION CABLE LENGTH SET THRESHOLD NO WATER and WATER with associated icons which are printed painted molded or otherwise applied to the outer plastic housing such as by a sticker.

In embodiments where the sensor control unit comprises an ET control unit and the sensor comprises a weather station the ET control unit utilizes actual ET data as its basis for making the modifications to the watering schedules implemented by the irrigation controller . However to simplify the irrigation system and reduce the costs some of the ET parameters may be pre programmed into the ET control unit as constants. These constants may be selected from a group of geographical areas to approximately assimilate the local conditions and estimate a maximum ET value. Other climatic factors are monitored on a daily basis and are the variables. The variables may include one or more pieces of environmental data such as temperature humidity solar radiation wind and rain. In an embodiment the measured variables are temperature and solar radiation. The variables and any constants are used by the processor to calculate an estimated ET value. This estimated ET value is then used by the ET control unit to automatically set the seasonal adjustment feature of the irrigation controller . The weather station can also include a sensor that indicates a rain event. A rain event does not affect calculation of an estimated ET value. However it does shut of the irrigation during and for a period of time following the rain event as a further conservation measure.

In embodiments where the sensor control unit comprises a soil moisture control unit and the sensor comprises one or more soil moisture sensors the soil moisture control unit utilizes actual soil moisture data as its basis for estimating a soil moisture requirement value and making the modifications to the watering schedules implemented by the irrigation controller . The soil moisture control unit is designed to work with one or more styles of moisture sensors . One example may be similar to U.S. Pat. No. 5 179 347 of Hawkins.

Another example is illustrated in the method of sensing moisture described in U.S. Publication No. 2008 0202220 of Schmidt where ambient soil temperature and temperature degradation times are used to determine the soil moisture content. Other types of soil moisture sensors with or without temperature sensors may be used with various embodiments of the soil moisture control unit . Soil moisture sensors without temperature sensing capabilities can be used alone or with optional temperature sensing devices that can be added during the installation. Temperature sensors may be placed in the ground or may be used to measure air temperature.

If the installation includes the ability to measure the either the soil or the air temperature this additional information can be used by the soil moisture control unit to calculate the soil moisture requirement value. The soil moisture requirement value will increase or decrease in relationship to changes in the soil temperature or air temperature. The higher the recorded temperatures the greater the evapotranspiration of the plant material will be. Furthermore overhead irrigation is not as efficient as high temperatures because of evaporation of the spray in the air prior to it hitting the surface of the ground. Also if the temperatures are very high a certain percentage of water that hits the ground will evaporate prior to soaking into the soil. All of these considerations can be taken in to account by the soil moisture controller to increase or decrease the amount of water that is supplied at a given time. In the case of a soil temperature measurement this is further modified by how deep the sensor is placed into the soil because the temperature changes in the soil are reduced as the sensing depth is increased. The ability of the soil moisture control unit to determine the irrigation requirements based on either air or soil temperature and moisture content allow it to automatically change the seasonal adjust of the irrigation controller from as little as 0 of normal watering to more than 100 of the normal watering schedule based on the actual conditions of the soil at the irrigation site.

The user can modify the run and cycle times for individual stations in the usual manner in the irrigation controller . As an example if one station is watering too much but all of the other stations are watering the correct amount the user can easily reduce the run time of that particular station and balance the system out. Then for example the soil moisture control unit continues to automatically modify the watering schedules executed by the irrigation controller on a global basis as a percentage of run time based at least in part on the calculated estimated soil moisture requirement value. In another example the ET control unit continues to automatically modify the watering schedules executed by the irrigation controller on a global basis as a percentage of run time based at least in part on the calculated estimated ET value.

Irrigation controllers can be used to control landscape lighting and other non irrigation devices such as decorative water fountains. The irrigation controller may have features in it such that the sensor control unit only modifies the watering schedules of the irrigation controller .

One of the difficulties with conventional irrigation controllers is the difficulty of fine tuning the irrigation controller schedule based on the sensor data being received. One situation is where the irrigation schedule has been inaccurately set up. It is very common for irrigation controllers to be programmed by the end user so that the schedule tends to over or under irrigate the property. In embodiments disclosed herein this scheduling error is automatically corrected by the sensor control unit .

In embodiments of the irrigation system where the sensor control unit comprises a soil moisture control unit and the sensor comprises at least one soil moisture sensor the soil moisture sensor is installed at the proper root zone depth of at least one of the irrigated zone. A wire connects the soil moisture control unit to the output of that zone on the irrigation controller . Each watering program has at least one associated soil moisture sensor. There may be a plurality of watering programs associated with a landscaped area each program having at least one zone assigned to it where at least one of the assigned zones has at least one soil moisture sensor buried in the landscaped area that is irrigated by that zone.

When a monitored zone is being watered the soil moisture control unit and the controller communicate via a two way communications platform to measure how long that station operates. If the soil moisture control unit has not detected the proper moisture when the irrigation cycle is complete it can automatically increase the run time of the watering schedules within the irrigation controller by adjusting the seasonal adjust feature higher. It may continue to do this over time until operation of that zone runs long enough for the soil moisture sensor to sense the moisture in the soil. A maximum run time may manually or automatically be entered into the program. This will be a value that is higher than the programmed run time. This will restrict the controller from excessive over watering of a zone in the event that the controller does not get a signal from the sensor that the soil is moist. If this occurs the controller may display a fault warning for that sensor.

Also if the soil moisture control unit detects that the soil is moist but the irrigation cycle is still running it will allow that irrigation cycle to continue. After the cycle is complete it will calculate the amount of time the zone ran and compare that with the amount of time it took to moisten the soil. It will then automatically reduce the seasonal adjust of the irrigation controller so the irrigation cycle time will match the amount of time required to irrigate the soil to the proper moisture. This is repeated each time the irrigation controller operates that zone to continually fine tune the watering schedule.

The sensors may not always be able to be placed in an optimum location on the irrigation site. For example a soil moisture sensor may be placed in an area that receives late afternoon shade. This will result in the calculation of an abnormally high estimated soil moisture content value for the rest of the irrigation site. The entire irrigation site may receive too little water and the plant material may become stressed from too little water if the watering schedules are based on abnormally high estimated soil moisture content. If a conventional soil moisture based irrigation controller receives input from such an incorrectly located soil moisture sensor the user can attempt to compensate by increasing the run times for each zone to compensate for the error. This is cumbersome and makes it difficult and frustrating for the user to adjust the conventional soil moisture based irrigation controller for optimum watering.

In another example a solar radiation sensor may be placed in an area that receives late afternoon shade. This will result in the calculation of an abnormally low estimated ET value. The entire irrigation site may receive too little water and the plant material may become stressed from too little water if the watering schedules are based on an abnormally low estimated ET. If a conventional ET based irrigation controller receives input from such an incorrectly located solar radiation sensor the user can attempt to compensate by increasing the run times for each zone by modifying precipitation rates to compensate for the error. This is cumbersome and makes it difficult and frustrating for the user to adjust a conventional ET based irrigation controller for optimum watering.

An embodiment disclosed herein globally modifies the watering schedules of the stand alone irrigation controller to compensate for these types of conditions. If at any time the user realizes that the property is receiving too little water the user can simply manually change an overall watering adjustment feature. The overall watering adjustment feature is implemented as a simple plus or minus control via actuation of an assigned pair of the push buttons . This changes the reference point of the ET or soil moisture requirement calculation either up or down. After this adjustment is made the adjustment executed by the sensor control unit references the new setting and then automatically compensates for under watering that would otherwise occur. Likewise if the overall watering is too much for the irrigation site the user can simply adjust the overall watering adjustment feature down and create a new lower reference for the automatic ET or soil moisture based adjustments. The overall watering adjustment feature makes it easy for the user to fine tune the system to the particular requirements of the irrigation site. The overall watering adjustment feature can be indicated by showing global adjustment or more less water or similar naming conventions. In embodiments where more than one sensor is installed this feature can be used to modify each assigned sensor independently of the others. The overall watering adjustment feature of the sensor control unit directly alters the station run times executed by the irrigation controller .

When the user makes overall watering adjustments by pressing plus or minus push buttons on the sensor control unit this affects the irrigation value that is used to reset the seasonal adjustment in the irrigation controller . For example when the user makes overall watering adjustments by pressing plus or minus push buttons on the soil moisture control unit this affects the soil moisture requirement value that is used to reset the seasonal adjustment in the irrigation controller . In calculating the estimated soil moisture requirement value the microcontroller in the soil moisture control unit uses only select data points as variables soil moisture readings and optional temperature measurements and uses other data points that may consist of preprogrammed constants and or data entered by the user that defines some one or more constants of the site.

In another example when the user makes overall watering adjustments by pressing plus or minus push buttons on the ET control unit this modifies a constant that is used in the calculating the seasonal adjust value. In calculating the estimated ET the microcontroller in the ET control unit uses only select data points as variables temperature and solar radiation and uses other data points that may consist of pre programmed constants and or data entered by the user that defines some one or more constants of the site. In an embodiment estimated ET is calculated using the Penman Monteith formula taking into account geographical data for peak estimated summer ET.

Another feature provided by the sensor control unit is an automatic shutdown feature for irrigation that overrides any scheduled run times. For example a rain sensor in the weather station can send signals to the ET control unit representing the occurrence of a rain event. The ET control unit will then signal the irrigation controller to shut down and suspend any watering regardless of any scheduled irrigation. In another example many cities require that irrigation be automatically turned off in the event of a freeze condition because during a freeze or near freeze condition irrigation may produce ice that can be dangerous to people walking or vehicles driving. A temperature sensor in the weather station can detect a freeze or near freeze condition and the ET control unit will signal the irrigation controller to shut down regardless of any scheduled irrigation.

The automatic shutdown feature of the sensor control unit can be utilized in geographic areas where watering agencies and municipalities impose restrictions that limit the times when irrigation can occur. The user is able to enter a no water window into the sensor control unit which consists of the times when irrigation is not allowed to take place. When a no water window is entered by the user the sensor control unit will signal the irrigation controller to shut down regardless of any scheduled irrigation. The sensor control unit permits the irrigation controller to return to its normal run mode after the selected no water window time has elapsed. The irrigation controller may have sensor input terminals as in the case of the Pro C irrigation controller which can be used to shut down all watering on receipt of a shutdown command from the sensor control unit .

The weather station includes an outer injection molded plastic housing that encloses a pair of moisture absorbing members in the form of a larger stack of moisture absorbing hygroscopic discs and a smaller stack of moisture absorbing hygroscopic discs. These discs are typically made of untreated wood fibers pressed together into a material that resembles cardboard in appearance. One suitable commercially available hygroscopic material is Kraft Press Board which is made from cellulose pulp.

The stacks and of hygroscopic discs are supported on a common pivot arm for vertical reciprocal motion relative to a vertical shaft that extends through the arm . A coil spring surrounds the shaft and normally pushes the stack upwardly against stop . A torsion spring associated with the pivot axis of the arm lifts the arm and the stack upward to a fixed stop not illustrated . When rain water enters the housing via aperture and funnel the hygroscopic discs of the stacks and absorb water and swell pushing the arm downwardly. A magnet is mounted on one end of the arm . A stationary linear Hall effect sensor mounted on a vertically mounted printed circuit board generates a signal representative of the position of the magnet that is proportional to the amount of rain water that has entered the weather station . The Hall effect sensor may be provided by part number A1395SEHLT T manufactured by Alegro. The small stack absorbs water quickly via funnel so that a rain event will be quickly detected. The large stack dries out slowly so that the rain interrupt signal from the weather station will not be terminated too quickly as the hydroscopic discs dry out. A solar radiation sensor is mounted on one end of the printed circuit board and receives solar radiation through a clear plastic dome snap fit over the uppermost part of the housing . The solar radiation sensor may be an industry standard PDB C 131 photodiode with low current leakage.

While a soil moisture sensor of any type can be combine with some intelligence microcontroller at the sensor itself and made to communicate with the control unit via the MMBTA92 and LM393 as discussed earlier it may be more cost effective to deal with the raw sensor interface than to add this intelligence in every sensor. An example of this approach for a resistive soil moisture sensor is illustrated in .

Referring to and the flowchart of it will be understood that first transistors Q and Q turn ON and the resistance of the sensor is measured using the sensing resistor and an A D input of the microcontroller. Then Q and Q are turned OFF and transistors Q and Q are turned ON and the measurement repeated. Both readings should be about the same but are averaged to increase accuracy. During the first measurement a DC voltage of one polarity is applied to the sensor. During the second measurement an opposite polarity DC voltage is applied to the sensor. Thus the time average DC voltage that the sensor sees is approximately zero. Furthermore during the vast majority of the time when no readings are being taken all transistors are OFF and there is no potential on the sensor. This approach eliminates the galvanic corrosion that would otherwise occur.

The relationship of resistance to soil moisture is typically non linear thus the microcontroller can apply a polynomial expansion or lookup table function to determine the amount of moisture in the soil from the resistance reading.

Embodiments also provides a unique method to automatically develop irrigation programs using soil moisture based control technology. are flow charts that illustrate how an irrigation controller that uses soil moisture sensors can establish the irrigation programs automatically. The controller has the ability to automatically establish all of the watering schedules for each program that has a soil moisture sensor associated with it. After the user has completed the wiring and installation of all of the irrigation components and sensors the user will do some simple entries on the controller to associate certain zones with certain programs. This may include the steps of assigning one or more master zones with each master zone having a soil moisture sensor communicating to it. Each master zone will be assigned to a program. Then the user then assigns associated zones to each program. The user may for example assign all of the stations that irrigate turf in the sun to one program. If all of the zones that irrigate turf in the sun have sprinklers that wet the area at the same precipitation rate then only one sensor is necessary in only one of the zones. This zone is referred to as the master zone. Likewise all stations that water turf in the shade may be assigned to another seasonal adjustment. This may continue to add other zones such as those used for potted plants those used for planters with overhead watering those used for planters with drip those used for watering trees etc. Each associated zone can be programmed to run the same time as the master zone or a percentage higher or lower than the master zone. This allows the user to vary the times of each zone as may be required by different precipitation rates or other environmental factors affecting that zone.

The method illustrated in further includes the step of starting the controllers irrigation in an automatic programming mode. In the automatic programming mode the controller runs the first master zone until the soil moisture sensor senses that the soil is moist. The controller then sets this time as the run time for the first master zone and calculates the run time for each associated zone assigned to it. The controller repeats this function for each of the remaining master zones. Once the time values have been established for each of the zones the user set the controller to run automatically. The controller will monitor each automatically programmed master zone to determine how many days it takes for the sensor to dry out. When each of the sensors sense that the zone associated with it is dry the controller will set the delay time between watering values for that program and begin irrigating according to the watering schedule.

Thus embodiments described herein can automatically generate a watering schedule where one does not exist at all through a self teaching routine. The system can continuously modify the automatically generated watering schedule in addition to modifying the seasonal adjustment. Air and or soil temperature can optionally be added to the calculations. The system includes the ability for the operator to manually set an overall watering adjustment feature to modify the adjustments normally made by the system to compensate for factors such as shade excess sun less than ideal installations etc. The system can also include an automatic irrigation shut off over ride feature to meet local municipality requirements.

Referring to an irrigation system comprises a stand alone irrigation controller connected via cable to a stand alone soil moisture control unit that is in turn connected via buried multi wire cables to a plurality of soil moisture sensors . It will be understood that the many advantages of the present invention can be achieved with a single soil moisture sensor however multiple soil moisture sensors are preferred. illustrates various means for communication between the soil moisture sensors and the soil moisture sensor control unit . The controller soil moisture unit and one or more soil moisture sensors and exchange data and commands via wireless communication links and .

The stand alone irrigation controller and soil moisture control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands are sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Optionally the soil moisture sensors may receive their power via battery when only the data is sent over the connecting wire or the radio links .

A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller. In its preferred form the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall. Hard wired communication links are provided between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensors and and wireless communication links are provided between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensors and . The stand alone soil moisture control unit may be manufactured in a form factor that is small enough to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . One or more solenoid actuated irrigation valves are connected to outputs of the stand alone irrigation controller using buried multi wire cable or other suitable wires.

Referring to an irrigation system comprises a stand alone irrigation controller connected via cable to a stand alone soil moisture control unit . This figure illustrates alternate means for communication to and from the soil moisture sensors and the soil moisture sensor control unit through communications hubs . Soil moisture control unit is connected via cable to a communications hub . Communications hub is connected to soil moisture sensor using cable and wireless connection is used to communicate with soil moisture sensor . Soil moisture sensors and communicate with communications hub using wireless connection and cable respectively. Communications hub communicates through wireless link to the soil moisture control unit . The controller and soil moisture control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture control unit communications hub and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands are sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Alternately these same devices may be powered by one or more batteries not illustrated .

Soil moisture sensors and and wireless communications hub may be powered by batteries not illustrated or other power source as they utilize wireless communications. A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller . In its preferred form the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall and a hard wired communication link between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the communications hub . Hard wired communications or wireless communication links provides communication channels to the soil moisture sensors to the communication hubs and . Hardwire communications cable or wireless communication link provides communication channels to the communication hubs and respectively. The soil moisture control unit may be manufactured small enough to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . Irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using wires .

Referring to an irrigation system comprises a standalone irrigation controller connected via cable to a standalone soil moisture control unit that is in turn connected via a multi wire cable to one or more decoder modules . Each soil moisture sensor is connected to a decoder module via sensor wiring . Optionally the decoder module may be built into the housings of the soil moisture sensors to allow connection directly to cable . The controller and soil moisture control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors.

In the embodiment of the irrigation system the soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on the same power wires or on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. The multi conductor cable connects to anyone of a multiple number of decoder modules . The decoder modules each have an individual address assigned to them. Any data transmitted by the cable includes and address message packet in the communications that identify which sensor the data is coming from or being sent to. This allows for many sensors to be installed over a large are using only a single two or three wire cable thus potentially saving thousands of feet of wire and the related labor to install it. A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller .

In an embodiment the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall and hard wired decoder system consisting of wire cable and decoder modules between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensors . The soil moisture control unit may be manufactured small enough to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . One or more irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using multi wire cable or other suitable individual wires.

Referring to a modified stand alone irrigation controller internally contains similar electronics and logic and or firmware similar to that of the stand alone controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit of . illustrated multiple means for communications to and from the soil moisture sensors and the stand alone irrigation controller . The stand alone irrigation controller is in connected via multi wire cables to one or more soil moisture sensors . The stand alone irrigation controller and one or more soil moisture sensors and may exchange data and commands via wireless communication links . The stand alone irrigation controller and would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although it can have a waterproof construction that allows it to be mounted out of doors.

In the embodiment of the irrigation system the soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture sensors from the stand alone irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on the same power wires or on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Optionally the soil moisture sensors may receive power via a battery where only the data is sent over the connecting wires or the radio links . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller . In its preferred form the irrigation system employs the irrigation controller and hard wired communication links between the irrigation controller and the soil moisture sensors or by wireless communication links of soil moisture sensors and . The stand irrigation controller may be purpose built to work with soil moisture sensors or it may be manufactured as a more generic irrigation controller that is designed to accept a plug in module that adapts it to work with soil moisture sensors . One or more irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using multi wire cable or other suitable individual wires.

Referring to a standalone irrigation controller internally contains electronics and logic and or firmware similar to that of the standalone controller of and the attached soil moisture control unit of . illustrates multiple means for communication to and from the soil moisture sensors and the irrigation controller through communications hubs . The irrigation controller is connected via cable to a communications hub . Communications hub is connected to soil moisture sensor using cable and wireless connection is used to communicate with soil moisture sensor . Soil moisture sensors and communicate with wireless communications hub using wireless connection and cable respectively. Communications hub communicates through wireless link to the soil moisture controller

In the system the controller would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although it can have a waterproof construction that allows it to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the communications hub and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Alternately these same devices may be powered by one or more batteries not shown . Soil moisture sensors and and wireless communications hub may be powered by batteries not shown or another power source as they utilize wireless communications. A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller

In an embodiment the irrigation system employs hard wired communications or wireless communication links between the soil moisture sensors and the communication hubs and . Hardwire communications cable or wireless communication link provides communication channels between the communication hubs and respectively and the irrigation controller . Irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using wires .

Referring to a standalone irrigation controller internally contains electronics and logic and or firmware similar to that of the standalone controller of and the attached soil moisture control unit of . In this case controller is designed to communicate to all of the peripheral devices using encoder and decoder technology. The irrigation controller is connected via cable to a variety of decoder modules and . Decoder modules are designed to provide power to turn on control valves when the irrigation controller sends the appropriate command. Decoder modules are designed to communicate two ways and provide the communication channel between the soil moisture sensors and the irrigation controller . Decoder modules are connected to the soil moisture sensors via using cable . Optionally the decoder module may be built into the housings of sensors to allow connection directly to cable .

The decoder modules and each have an individual address assigned to them. Any data transmitted by the cable includes an address message packet in the communications that identify which sensor or valve the data is coming from or being sent to. This allows for many sensors and many valves to be installed over a large are using only a single two or three wire cable thus potentially saving thousands of feet of wire and the related labor to install it. The controller would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although it can have a waterproof construction that allows it to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture sensors from the irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on the power wires or on other copper wires in the cables. Alternately these same devices may be powered by one or more batteries not illustrated. A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller

In an embodiment the irrigation system of employs hard wired decoder communications cable which is connected to decoder modules and . Irrigation valves are connected to decoder modules using cables . Soil moisture sensors are connected to the decoder modules using cables .

Referring to a standalone irrigation controller is connected via cable to a standalone soil moisture control unit that is in turn connected via multi wire cables to one or more soil moisture sensors . This figure illustrates a daisy chain connection configuration for the soil moisture sensors that allows for communications to and from the soil moisture sensors and the soil moisture sensor control unit . The stand alone irrigation controller and stand alone soil moisture control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands are sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Optionally the soil moisture sensor may receive its power via a battery where only the data is sent over the connecting wire . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller .

In an embodiment the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall and hard wired communication link between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensor . Subsequent soil moisture sensors are connected in a daisy chain fashion to the next sensor ahead of it. The soil moisture control unit may be manufactured small enough to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . One or more irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using multi wire cable or other suitable individual wires.

Referring to a stand alone irrigation controller internally contains electronics and logic and or firmware similar to that of the standalone controller of and the attached soil moisture control unit of . This figure illustrates a daisy chain communications scheme to and from the soil moisture sensors and the irrigation controller . The irrigation controller is connected via multi wire cables to soil moisture sensors . Subsequent soil moisture sensors are connected in a daisy chain fashion to the next soil moisture sensor ahead of it. The controller would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although it can have a waterproof construction that allows it to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture sensors from the irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on the same power wires or on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Optionally the soil moisture sensors may receive power via a battery where only the data is sent over the connecting wires . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110VAC duplex outlet supplies 24VAC power to the stand alone irrigation controller

In an embodiment the irrigation system employs an irrigation controller and hard wired communication links between the irrigation controller and the soil moisture sensors . Subsequent soil moisture sensors are connected in a daisy chain fashion to the next sensor ahead of it. The irrigation controller may be purpose built to work with soil moisture sensors or it may be manufactured as a more generic irrigation controller that is designed to accept a plug in module that adapts it to work with soil moisture sensors . One or more irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using multi wire cable or other suitable individual wires.

In each of the the hard wired connection may be replaced by a wireless connection and the soil moisture control unit may receive its power from an alternative source including a different 24VAC power supply or one or more batteries.

In conclusion the sensor control unit utilizes the watering program set up procedures that the users are already accustomed to. Start times station run times and days to water are manually entered into the irrigation controller . The user also selects from one of a group sensors in the sensor control unit . The sensor control unit then automatically takes over setting of the seasonal adjustment feature of the irrigation controller on a regular basis. Instead of a user changing that feature several times per year the sensor control unit automatically sets that seasonal adjustment daily depending on current conditions gathered on site. Furthermore the sensor control unit shuts down any scheduled watering by the irrigation controller in response to for example a rain event a freeze event and when there is a scheduled no water window.

Embodiments also provides a unique method of controlling a plurality of valves on an irrigation site. The method includes the steps of selecting and or creating a watering schedule storing the watering schedule and generating a signal representative of a condition on an irrigation site. The method also includes the steps of calculating an estimated irrigation requirement value based at least in part on the sensor signal and selectively turning a plurality of valves located on the irrigation site ON and OFF in accordance with the watering schedule. Importantly the method includes the further step of automatically modifying the watering schedule based on the estimated irrigation requirement value using a seasonal adjust algorithm to thereby conserve water while maintaining the health of plants on the irrigation site. Optionally the method may further include the step of inputting an overall watering adjustment and automatically modifying the watering schedule through the seasonal adjust algorithm based on the estimated irrigation requirement value as increased or decreased by the inputted overall watering adjustment.

While an embodiment of an irrigation system comprising a stand alone sensor control unit connected to stand alone irrigation controller and linked to one or more separate sensors has been described in detail persons skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail. The features and functionality described could be provided by combining the irrigation controller and the sensor control unit into a single integrated unit in which case a single microcontroller would replace the microcontrollers and . Alternatively the sensor control unit could be packaged in sensor control module designed for removable insertion into a receptacle in a stand alone irrigation controller . The irrigation controller may be mounted outside or be connected directly to 110 or 220 AC power with a transformer mounted inside the irrigation controller . The sensors or communications hubs may be powered by batteries that may be replaceable or rechargeable. Rechargeable batteries may be recharged using any charging technology including solar water or wind powered generators.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithm . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality can be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed by a machine such as a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be a controller microcontroller or state machine combinations of the same or the like. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method process or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of computer readable storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized certain embodiments of the inventions described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of certain inventions disclosed herein is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

