---

title: Systems and methods to customize interactive voice response (IVR) prompts based on information about a caller
abstract: A smart interactive voice response (IVR) system of the connection server configured to allow customized customer handling based on information known/gathered about individual customers. For example, based on matching the parameters of the current call from a mobile device with previous calls from the mobile device, the system may identify the identity of the caller, the identity of the callee, the language preference of the caller, the payment information for settling the cost of the current call, etc. IVR prompts can be customized based on the preference of the caller and known information about the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380160&OS=09380160&RS=09380160
owner: YELLOWPAGES.COM LLC
number: 09380160
owner_city: Tucker
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140428
---
The present application claims priority to Prov. U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 61 820 635 filed May 7 2013 and entitled Systems and Methods to Customize Interactive Voice Response IVR Prompts based on Information about a Caller the entire disclosure of which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present patent application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 263 731 filed Apr. 28 2014 and entitled Systems and Methods to Customize the Presentation of Prompts to Establish Communication Connections U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 263 778 filed Apr. 28 2014 and entitled Systems and Methods to Establish Communication Connections via Mobile Application U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2007 0189520 published on Aug. 16 2007 and entitled Systems and Methods to Facilitate Transition from Communication to Commerce and U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0097845 published on Apr. 24 2008 and entitled Systems and Methods to Provide Voice Connections via Local Telephone Numbers the entire disclosures of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

At least some embodiments disclosed relate to telephonic connections in general and more specifically but not limited to user interfaces for establishing telephonic connections.

Telephone systems allow users to conduct real time two way voice communication. Traditional land line based telephone systems connect one telephone set to another through one or more switching centers operated by one or more telephone companies over a land line based telephone network. Traditionally a telephone connection is based on a circuit switched network.

Current telephone systems may also use a packet switched network for a telephone connection. A packet switched network is typical in a computer data environment. Recent developments in the field of Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP allow the delivery of voice information using the Internet Protocol IP in which voice information is packaged in a digital form in discrete packets rather than in the traditional circuit committed protocols of the public switched telephone network PSTN .

Cellular networks allow a cellular phone to connect to a nearby cellular base station through an air interface for wireless access to a telephone network. Recent developments in wireless telephone systems allow not only voice communications but also data communications. For example cellular phones can now receive and send short messages through a Short Message Service SMS . Web pages can now be retrieved through wireless cellular links and displayed on cellular phones. Wireless Application Protocol WAP has been developed to overcome the constraints of relatively slow and intermittent nature of wireless links to access information similar or identical to World Wide Web.

Telephone companies provide a number of convenient features such as call forwarding. Call forwarding of a telephone system allows a user of a phone at a given phone number to dial a specific sequence on the phone to cause the telephone system to forward incoming calls addressed to the phone number to another specified phone number indicated by the dialed sequence.

Telephone systems are frequently used in conducting business. Telephone numbers are typically provided in advertisements web sites directories etc. as a type of contact information to reach businesses experts persons etc.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments. Unless excluded by explicit description and or apparent incompatibility any combination of various features described in this description is also included here. For example the features described above in connection with in one embodiment or in some embodiments can be all optionally included in one implementation except where the dependency of certain features on other features as apparent from the description may limit the options of excluding selected features from the implementation and incompatibility of certain features with other features as apparent from the description may limit the options of including selected features together in the implementation.

The contact of the user A is stored in the database and a reference is assigned to represent the contact. Instead of providing the contact to customers the reference representing the contact is provided through the media to user B . Thus when the user B uses the reference to request a connection with the user A the connections resulted from the advertisement can be tracked to evaluate the performance.

In one embodiment advertisements can be distributed via a number of media channels operated by a number of demand partners. The reference can also be assigned to identify the demand partners and or the media channels used to distribute the advertisements. In one embodiment the information obtained from tracking the demand partners who are responsible for the delivery of a communication lead is used to compensate the demand partner for each delivered communication lead. Alternatively the demand partners may be compensated according to the advertisement presentations made for the advertiser and tracked information can be used to determine the performance and or the cost effectiveness of the media channels.

In one embodiment the reference can be presented via a variety of media channels such as a virtual reality environment newspaper magazine telephone directory web search results VoIP user terminals interactive maps banners directory assistance service online marketplace mobile communication devices radio cable satellite television interactive television web television voice portal web portal online auction site blog email bulletin board refrigerate magnet brochure etc.

In the user B can use the reference obtained from media to request the connection provider to establish a connection or facilitate a communication channel for real time communications between the user A and the user B . The connection provider uses the database to determine the contact of the user A and then make a connection between the user A and user B using the contact of the user A . Alternatively the reference may include an encoded encrypted version of the contact of the user A which can be decoded decrypted without relying upon the database .

In response to the user B s request for a connection the connection provider may establish two separate connections to the user A and the user B and then bridge the two connections to connect the user A and user B . For example the connection provider may determine the reference from a connection established between the user B and connection provider and then further bridge the connection to the user A .

In one embodiment the connection provider may provide a separate reference to represent the user B and allow the user A to subsequently callback to the user B via the reference that represents the user B if the user A is not currently available for real time communications. The connection provider may schedule an appointment for the user A and user B for a real time communication session. The connection provider may send a notification to the user A to inform the user A about the request for a real time communication.

In one embodiment the connection provider tracks the connections made via the reference for billing for the advertisement. For example the connection provider may charge the advertiser for each communication lead deliver to the user A .

A communication lead may be limited to a distinct separate customer such that repeated calls from the same customer within a predefined time period may not be counted as separate communication leads. In one embodiment the communication lead may also be limited by the duration of a communication session such that a short session having a duration shorter than a predefined time period may not be counted as a communication lead and or a long session having a duration longer than a predefined time period may be counted as more than one communication lead.

In one embodiment a number of communication leads may be bundled as a package for a subscription fee or a bid price. Further the delivery of communication leads may be bundled with an offer of a telecommunication service package. Alternatively the advertiser may specify a bid price that is to be charged for each communication lead delivered or a bid limit e.g. maximum bid which is to be resolved into an actual bid based on the bid prices of competitors in a category for a specific geographic service area.

In an interface allows the advertiser to describe an offer or a switch pitch or a cross sell or some advertising content . The advertiser can specify the business contact information for the advertisement including the business name street mailing address phone number and fax number. The advertiser seller is encouraged to tell customers via concise marketing messages what is being offered and why the customers should call the advertiser seller. For example the advertiser is encouraged to include promotional offers in the marketing messages to get buyers to call the advertiser. Examples of promotional offers include Call today and get 5 off Free consultation limited time and Call now and save 10 . 

In one embodiment an audio and or visual advertisement is generated based at least in part on the information submitted by the advertiser via the user interface e.g. for presentation via virtual realty directory assistance service search result etc. 

In one embodiment a short audio advertisement is generated based on the concise marketing message e.g. two sentences each having a length limit such as 35 characters . The concise marketing message can be read by a human to generated a recorded audio file for a short audio advertisement or be converted into an audio message via a text to speech synthesizer. In one embodiment the audio advertisement also includes the business name.

In one embodiment a visual presentation of the advertisement may be used to supplement the audio advertisement. For example the address of the advertisement can be presented in a visual advertisement together with additional information that is specified in the business profile page of the advertisement. In response to a request from the customer the visual component of the advertisement can be sent to the customer via an SMS message via an email via a custom application via a web WAP page etc.

In one embodiment the advertisement is sent to a user device in text according to a pre determined format e.g. in XML or a custom designed format to allow a client application running on the user device to present the advertisement in a custom format. For example the client application may present the short marketing advertisement in an audio form via a text to speech synthesize and the present a selected portion of the advertisement as an animation e.g. present an electronic coupon via an animation . For example a Java applet can be downloaded into the browser of the user to facilitate VoIP based phone communication and perform at least part of the text to speech operations to enable improved compression in transmitting audio advertisements.

In one embodiment when an advertisement is presented to the user via a web or a virtual reality environment the short audio advertisement can also be included and the audio advertisement can be played automatically or after the user selects the advertisement.

In the interface may be implemented as a web page. Alternatively an advertisement may submit the advertising content via a custom client application or via a message gateway e.g. an instant message an email an SMS message etc. . In one embodiment one or more advertisements can be uploaded into a server via a spreadsheet or via a web service interface.

In one embodiment the system converts the text input received from the advertiser into an audio advertisement. In one embodiment the audio file for the advertisement is stored in the advertisement database alternatively the text input can be converted into the audio advertisement e.g. via a text to speech synthesizer or a human announcer when the audio advertisement is needed. In one embodiment the machine synthesized audio recording are stored in the database for a period of time and deleted if not used after a predetermined period of time or when the usage of the audio advertisement is lower than a threshold.

In one embodiment the system can store multiple phone numbers of the seller. The system can intelligent route a call to the seller according to the preference of the seller. For example in the advertiser seller may choose a preferred phone number from a set of phone numbers of the seller to receive incoming calls using the option group in the user interface . The seller may indicate whether the seller is currently available to take calls or is to be taken off call e.g. using the check box .

In one embodiment the system allows the seller to specify the schedule to receive calls and the schedule is displayed to the seller in a graphical way to help the seller to manage calls. In the user interface includes a link which can be selected to display a user interface not shown in to manage the schedule .

In one embodiment when the schedule or the check button indicates that the advertiser seller is currently not available to take calls for real time communications the system can decrease the priority of the advertisement for this advertiser or stop temporarily the presentation of advertisements for this advertiser. When there is a call intended for the advertiser at a time when the advertiser is not taking calls e.g. according to the schedule the system can block the call or direct the call into a voice mail for the advertiser or arrange a call at an alternative time or obtain a callback number to allow the advertiser to initiate a callback to the customer.

In the user interface also includes a summary of call activities. Buttons and can be selected to show graphical representation of the call activities and further details of the call activities.

As the phone calls pass through the system a wide array of information can be collected and tracked including day date time of calls duration of calls call status answered no answer busy inbound phone numbers etc. Such tracked information can be used in counting communication leads generated from advertisements. For example when multiple calls are made from the same user to the same seller within a period of time e.g. a day or a week or in connection with the same offered or auctioned item these multiple calls can be considered as one qualified call or a single lead.

In one embodiment different types of communication references can be dynamically selected for advertisements to represent the contact information of the corresponding advertisers. A communication reference used to represent the contact of an advertiser may be a traditional phone number with or without an extension a click to call reference a SIP address for VoIP call a click to reveal reference etc. The communication reference can be embedded into an advertisement to count the communication leads generated from advertisements to track the contributions of demand partners who operate media channels to present the advertisements to customers and or to track other aspects of advertising such as partners who bring the advertisers sellers to the system and the keywords responsible for the selection of the advertisement for presentation.

In one embodiment the tracking mechanism used for a particular version of a particular advertisement is selected from a number of available mechanisms based on one or more considerations such as the volume or frequency of calls generated from the advertisement the conversion rate of the advertisement e.g. the ratio between a count of presentations of the advertisement and a count of communication leads generated from the presentations the price per communication lead that the advertiser is willing to pay for the advertisement according to a price bid specified by the advertiser a potential revenue for a particular party in the advertising activity a classification or category of the advertisement e.g. the category of service or product advertised in the advertisement a geographical area served by the advertisement the demand partner who is going to present the advertisement e.g. the success rate of the demand partner in reaching viable customers in comparison with other demand partners etc.

In a pool of different types of references is maintained such as local phone numbers 800 numbers 888 numbers 877 numbers and 866 numbers . Some of the references can be dynamically generated and used such as extensions SIP addresses click to assign references and click to callback references . In one embodiment one or more of the references are selected and used as the assigned reference that is embedded in the advertisement . In one embodiment the assignment is based at least partially on factors related to the advertisement such as call volume conversion rate revenue potential category geography demand partner etc.

In one embodiment the reference of a particular type is selected and assigned to the advertisement when the advertisement is being requested for delivery. When the advertisement is subsequently requested the previously assigned reference can be used. Alternatively when the advertisement is subsequently requested a different reference of a re selected type can be selected and assigned to the advertisement based on the considerations such as the call volume in a past time period conversion rate price bid etc. After the new reference is assigned to the advertisement the previous reference can be assigned to a different advertisement.

In one embodiment before the expiration of the previously assigned reference for an advertisement delivered by a demand partner a new reference can be assigned to the advertisement for delivery by the same demand partner. Thus multiple references can be associated with a same set of parameters in a time period. Further since some of the references can be re assigned to a different advertisement one reference may be associated with multiple sets of parameters e.g. for different advertisements . In one embodiment when a reference is associated multiple sets of parameters the parameter set that is most recently assigned to and associated with an advertisement has the highest priority and when the reference is used to request a communication connection with an advertiser the customer can be prompted to confirm the set of parameters directly or indirectly before the set of parameters are used to connect the customer to the advertiser.

In one embodiment a communication reference that is specific to a selected tracking mechanism is allocated or selected or generated for a particular advertisement. The communication reference is embedded into the advertisement to generate a particular version of the advertisement.

In one embodiment the tracking mechanism is selected at a time when the particular version of the advertisement is needed for presentation e.g. when the version of the advertisement is to be delivered to a media channel a demand partner or to a web browser of a customer . The corresponding communication reference is allocated or selected or generated when the tracking mechanism is selected.

In one embodiment the selected tracking mechanism can be dynamically changed at a time when the particular version of the advertisement is needed for presentation e.g. when the version of the advertisement is to be delivered to a demand partner or to a web browser of a customer . For example the tracking mechanism used in an advertisement that is to be presented via a particular demand partner can be upgraded or downgraded based on the statistical data collected from the past activities related to the advertisement.

In one embodiment a version of an advertisement can have multiple assigned references corresponding to different types of tracking mechanisms. For example a version of an advertisement may include a SIP address a reference to arrange a callback and a reference to request an assigned phone number.

The SIP address may be presented in a click to call format via a VoIP application. When the customer has a VoIP application readily available the customer may choose to make the phone call via the SIP address without requesting for a traditional telephone number.

The reference to arrange a callback can be implemented as a link or a button labeled as Request a phone connection through calling me back . In one embodiment a form to take the callback number is presented with the link or button. Alternatively when the link or the button is selected a further interface e.g. a web page a dialog box etc. can be displayed to guide the customer through the process of connecting the customer to the advertiser through calling back the customer.

The reference to request an assigned phone number can be implemented as a link or a button labeled as Show me a phone number which when selected causes a phone number to be assigned to the version of the advertisement. After a phone number is assigned to the version of the advertisement the advertisement can be subsequently displayed with the assigned phone number without showing the reference to request an assigned phone number.

Alternatively when the Show me a phone number link or button is selected the complete phone number of the advertiser can be shown to allow the customer to call the advertiser directly. In such an implementation the number of times that the advertiser s phone number is clicked to reveal can be used as a performance indicator based on which the advertisement is charged for.

In one embodiment after a period of time of serving the advertisement statistical data related to consumer responses to the advertisement can be collected and used to adjust the tracking mechanisms for the advertisement. For example if it is determined that the majority of the phone calls in response to the advertisement is via the SIP address other tracking mechanisms may be de allocated from the advertisement or re allocated for a different advertisement. Alternatively the reference may be phased out from the advertisement while the reference is allocated to a different advertisement.

For instance if an advertisement has a high call volume e.g. receives many calls it may be upgraded for a more expensive method of tracking. An advertisement with an extension may be upgraded to a local phone number without an extension or even a vanity toll free number if the performance of the advertisement is above a threshold e.g. when its conversion rate or call volume is high . Conversely advertisements that perform poorly may be downgraded in tracking methods used. For example an advertisement tracked by a toll free number without an extension may be downgraded to have a number with an extension a click to call connection mechanism.

The tracking mechanism of an advertisement can be determined not only by the performance of an advertisement but also by the quality of the demand partner or the quality of the customer viewing the advertisement. For example one advertisement may use an expensive tracking mechanism on one demand partner but may be assigned a different inexpensive tracking mechanism on a second demand partner who tends to have lower quality customers e.g. customers who response less frequently to advertisements . The quality of a demand partner may be reflected upon on the difference in the conversion rate of a same advertisement presented via different demand partners in the numbers of the potential customers the demand partners can reach the quality of the customers of the demand partners etc. In another embodiment the tracking mechanism is directly determined by the quality of the customer himself herself. For instance information can be collected about the customer interacting with the advertisements if the customer is a frequent buyer an expensive tracking mechanism can be used for the customer. The quality of a customer may also reflected upon the preferences of the customer the spending habit of the customer the response rate of the customer to advertisements the need of the customer etc. In this case different customers of different buying tendencies may see the advertisement using different tracking mechanisms at the same demand partners.

In one embodiment the likelihood of an advertisement being called is estimated based on the type of media channels used to present the advertisement the demand partner responsible to deliver the advertisement and or the customer who views the advertisement. Any characteristics in advertising that have an impact on the likelihood of an advertisement being called and thus the expected revenue profit generated from the presentation of the advertisement can be used in selecting a tracking mechanism for the particular instance of the advertisement.

In one example if it is determined that the number of communication leads generated from the assigned phone number is lower than a threshold the assigned phone number may be reallocated to another advertisement. If the number of communication leads generated from the advertisement is higher than a threshold the tracking mechanism used for the advertisement may be promoted to a phone number with a short or vanity extension a phone number without an extension a vanity phone number a toll free phone number a vanity toll free number a local phone number or a vanity local phone number. If the number of communication leads generated from the advertisement is lower than a threshold the tracking mechanism may be downgraded freeing up tracking resources for other advertisements.

In one example when advertisements are provided to a demand partner that has a lower success rate in reaching viable customers than other demand partners this demand partner may be represented using a long extension leaving short extensions for other demand partners. Alternatively the advertisements for presentation by the demand partner may be tracked using references for callback or SIP addresses.

In one example the system may promote the advertisement activities in one geographic area and the advertisements served in that geographic area receive upgrades in tracking mechanism.

In one example the advertisements in certain categories of products and services use upgraded tracking mechanisms.

In one embodiment the advertisements with a pay per communication lead price bid higher than a threshold receives an upgrade in tracking mechanism.

In one embodiment the system determines weighting factors in various types of communication references e.g. in terms of cost and benefit in promoting the advertisement the success rate of the advertisement in various communication channel demand partner and the price bids of the advertisers. Based on the collected information the system can select tracking mechanisms to optimize the potential revenue that can be generated from advertising. In one embodiment the potential revenue includes the advertisement revenue and or other revenue that can be generated from the advertisement. For example when the system takes a commission from the transaction resulted from the advertisement the potential revenue can include the expected commission from the presentation of the advertisement and in such a case the system may further use the statistical data related to the successful rate of a call converting into a transaction an average value of a transaction the possibility of a repeated call the average value of a repeated call etc. in the determination of the potential revenue. In one embodiment advertisements may qualify for better tracking mechanisms when their pay per call bid price reaches a certain value. Similarly advertisements may qualify for better tracking mechanisms when their overall value reaches a certain threshold. Their overall value can be a function of their bid price ordinal position conversion rate demand source customer quality etc.

In a phone number without an extension is assigned for the generation a particular version of an advertisement . In the database the assigned phone number is associated with the media channel and the advertiser s phone number and or other parameters to be tracked . Thus the parameters to be tracked can be identified based at least partially on the assigned phone number . The particular version of the advertisement that has the assigned phone number is provided to the customer via the media channel . The advertisement may instruct or suggest the customer to call the assigned phone number to reach the advertiser. In response to the advertisement the customer may call the assigned phone number . When the connection provider is called at the assigned phone number via a telephone carrier the connection provider can identify the assigned phone number e.g. via a Dialed Number Identification Service DNIS and determine the advertiser s phone number based at least partially on the assigned phone number . Further using the assigned phone number it can also be determined that the phone call from the customer is a response to an advertisement that is delivered via the media channel based on the association between the assigned phone number and the media channel in the database .

In one embodiment after determining the advertiser s phone number from the assigned phone number that is dialed by the customer the connection provider makes a separate call to the advertiser via a telephone carrier. When both the customer and the advertiser are on the line with the connection provider the connection provider can bridge or conference the calls to connect the customer and the advertiser . Alternatively the connection provider may forward the calls from the customer to the advertiser after determining the advertiser s phone number.

In one embodiment the assigned phone number can be a phone number that is local to the area to be served by the advertisement. Alternatively the assigned phone number can be a toll free phone number such as an 800 888 877 or 866 number. In one embodiment the assigned phone number is a vanity number that spells one or more words on a dial pad on a phone such as 1 800 PLUMBER for the advertisement of a plumber. Alternatively the assigned phone number can be a plain phone number.

It is recognized that a local phone number is easy to dial manually a vanity number is easy to remember and an 800 number is easier to remember than other toll free numbers. Thus there are different values in advertising in the different types of assigned phone numbers.

Since maintaining different phone numbers may increase the tracking cost another type of tracking mechanism uses different extensions to differentiate tracked parameters. For example different root phone numbers can be used to represent different media channels and different extensions can be used to represent different advertisers. In another example different root phone numbers are used to represent different advertisers and different extensions are used to represent different media channels. In another example the entire assigned phone number including the root phone number and the extension is used as a key to look up the media channel and the advertiser s phone number. In a further example the root phone numbers are not used to differentiate tracked parameters and the tracked parameters are represented by the extensions which may be implemented as keys to look up the parameters or as encoded encrypted version of the parameters.

In one embodiment after the customer dials the root number the customer is connected to an IVR system or a human operator of the connection provider tracker. After the customer provides the extension to the IVR system or the human operator the tracked parameters such as the media channel and or the advertiser s phone number can be determined.

In one embodiment the IVR system or the human operator can prompt the customer for the extension that is provided in the advertisement. When the dialed root number is sufficient to identify information about the media channel the IVR system or the human operator may customize the prompt to include the information of the media channel and ask the customer to further provide the extension to reach the desired advertiser. When the dialed root number is sufficient to identify information about the advertiser the IVR system or the human operator may customize the prompt to include the information of the advertiser and ask the customer to further provide the extension to reach the desired advertiser.

The extension can be a plain extension or a vanity extension that spells one or more words on a dial pad on a phone such as extension PLUMBER for the advertisement of a plumber. In one embodiment extensions used in the system can have different lengths. A shorter extension is easy to dial and a vanity extension is easy to remember. In one embodiment the extension includes an encoded encrypted version of the associated parameter to allow an authorized data system to decode decrypt at least some of the parameters without having to query the database. Thus different types of extensions can have different values in advertising.

The tracking methods described can have different costs. A toll free number with many extensions for instance is much cheaper than many vanity toll free numbers. Therefore the system uses the more expensive methods when it s worthwhile to do so. For instance if an advertisement receives many calls it may be selected for a more expensive method of tracking. An advertisement with an extension may in the future be upgraded to a local phone number without an extension or even a vanity toll free number. Similarly an advertisement may qualify for a more expensive method of tracking if its conversion rate is high e.g. if it has a high ratio of the number of calls it receives to the number of times it is displayed . Conversely advertisements that perform poorly may be downgraded in tracking methods used. For example an advertisement tracked by a toll free number may be downgraded to have a less expensive click to call connection mechanism.

In one embodiment the connection provider calls the customer instead of providing a phone number to receive a phone call from the customer. For example the reference assigned to represent the contact of the advertiser may not be used to make a call via a traditional telephone carrier. The reference can be submitted to the connection provider via a data communication such as an email an SMS message a web request or other types of data communication. The reference can be used as a key in the database to look up the associated parameters such as the media channel and the advertiser s phone number. In one embodiment the reference is an encoded encrypted version of the associated parameters such that an authorized data system can decode decrypt the information without having to look up from the database. After the reference is provided to the connection provider with the request for a connection the connection provider can callback to the customer to establish the connection between the customer and the advertiser. The request may include a callback phone number of the customer. Alternatively a customer may be prompted to provide the callback phone number in response to the request. The connection provider can connect the customer and the advertiser by calling the customer and the advertiser separately and bridge conferences the calls or by forwarding one call e.g. the call to the customer to another e.g. to the advertiser .

In one embodiment a telephone number assigned to a version of an advertisement includes a SIP address for the initiation of a VoIP based telephone call. The SIP address can be used for a manually dialed call on a SIP enabled phone or be used in a click to call format. In one embodiment the SIP address includes an encoded encrypted version of the contact of the advertiser such that the connection provider can decode decrypt the contact of the advertiser from the SIP address without having to look up from database.

In one embodiment the allocation of a telephone number to an advertisement is deferred to a stage when a customer is interested in the advertisement and ready to make a phone call. A reference embedded in the advertisement can be used to specifically request for the telephone number that is assigned to the advertiser by the connection provider. The request can be sent as a web request in response to a click on a link or as an email an SMS message or an instant message. The assigned telephone number may be a toll free phone number without extension a local phone number with an extension a SIP URL etc. Alternatively the reference can be used to request the actual phone number of the advertiser.

In one embodiment the phone numbers of the target phones are not directly publicized over the media channels. Instead encoded target phone numbers are used. Using the encoded target phone numbers a user cannot reach target phones directly. The encoded target phone numbers allow the association of additional information with the target phone numbers such as the media channels used special promotions etc.

The encoded target phone numbers are delivered with content information e.g. web page WAP page short message television programs news articles virtual reality etc. to user devices such as user device A e.g. cellular phone user device B e.g. personal digital assistant PDA user device C e.g. computer user device D e.g. receiver user device E e.g. newspaper .

In one embodiment a user device can include a USB phone a Bluetooth wireless phone or one or more speakers or headphones with one or microphones for the implementation of a software based phone softphone .

In one embodiment the user devices phones support one or more real time communication capabilities such as VoIP using Session Initiation Protocol SIP which may support video and instant messaging applications IP phone regular phone over VoIP service Bluetooth wireless phone USB phone software based phone and other forms of IP telephony. In one embodiment the user devices phones support the display of virtual reality.

In one embodiment the user device can include a television set to receive the advertisement. Further the television set may have the capability to accept user input so that the television content may be changed according to the user input e.g. interactive television web television internet television etc. or be coupled with a set top box which has such capability. The user input may be provided to the content provider through the same communication channel in which the television content programs are delivered e.g. a cable system of a cable television system or a separate channel e.g. a phone line an Internet connection etc. . The user input may include a request to make a connection to an advertiser featured in an advertisement presented in a television program such as a request for a telephonic connection to the advertiser.

In one embodiment the user devices are mobile devices such as PDA cellular phone etc. The user devices obtain content information including advertisements through wireless communication connections such as cellular communication links wireless access points for wireless local area network etc.

In one embodiment a user device e.g. a cellular phone a computer a PDA can receive content information from multiple types of media channels e.g. a web server a WAP server an SMSC CHTML etc. .

In one embodiment a user device is capable to dial a phone call e.g. automatically according to the encoded phone number embedded in the content information when a user selects the number . Alternatively a user may manually dial a phone call using a separate phone such as user phone S or user phone T .

In one embodiment dialing at least a portion of an encoded target phone number connects the phone call to a connection server first. According to the encoded target phone number dialed the connection server determines the corresponding target phone number using the database and connects the phone call to the corresponding target phone e.g. one of target phones through the communication network .

Note the communication network may be circuit switched packet switched or partially circuit switched and partially packet switched. For example the telephone network may partially use the Internet to carry the phone call e.g. through VoIP . For example the connection between the user phone device and the connection server may be carried using VoIP and the connection between the connection server may be carried using a land line based circuit switched telephone network.

In one embodiment the information associated with the encoded target phone number such as the media channel used to provide the encoded target phone number to the users is also decoded retrieved using the database . Thus the information associated with the encoded target phone number can be tracked stored.

In one embodiment the connection server also determines the phone number of the user through Automatic Number Identification ANI . ANI is a phone system feature that provides the billing phone number of the person making the phone call.

The information about the caller target phone number the media channel used for delivering the contact information to the user can be used to bill the caller and or the target phone number and provide credit compensation for the corresponding media channel.

For example the advertisements for target phone numbers can be paid for on a pay per call basis. Monitoring and tracking the calls can be used for billing the advertisers. Alternatively the users may be seeking the contact information on a pay per call basis. Monitoring and tracking the calls can be used for billing the users.

In one embodiment the additional information associated with the encoded target phone number is used to provide credit compensation to the operators of the corresponding media channels that are responsible for leading the users to the phone calls to the target phones. The system can further track the time and duration of the phone calls and other information such as conditional promotions electronic coupons etc.

The information about the media channels that are responsible for leading the users to the phone calls to the target phones can also be useful for the advertisers. The advertisers may wish to know which media channel is more effective in reaching users. For example using the statistic information about the media channels which successfully bring in phone calls the advertisers may fine tune advertisement strategies. Further different media channels may charge differently for the advertisements and the advertisers may bid differently on different media channels for their advertisements.

In one embodiment an encoded target phone number has the same number of digits as a standard phone number e.g. a typical telephone number assigned by a telephone company . Thus dialing the encoded target phone number is as easy as dialing the target phone number and dialing the target phone number reaches the connection server . In such an arrangement a large number of encoded phone numbers are generally required to differentiate the different target phones and different media channels.

In one embodiment an encoded target phone number has more digits than a standard phone number. A first portion of the encoded target phone number has the same number of digits as a standard phone number to reach the connection server through the communication network and a second portion of the encoded target phone number is to be decoded by the connection server . For example the Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF decoder can be installed in the connection server to detect the second portion of the encoded target phone number dialed at the user phone. The detected phone number can then be used to recover the target phone number. In one embodiment a human operator or an interactive voice response IVR system can be used to receive the second portion of the encoded target phone number for decoding.

When an encoded target phone number has more digits than a standard phone number the additional digits can be implemented as a telephone extension or as input to an IVR system. In one embodiment an encoded target phone number includes a Session Initiation Protocol SIP address for the initiation of a VoIP call to the system.

In one embodiment a single telephone number is used to reach the connection server for different target phone numbers and the portion of the encoded target phone number that is used to reach the connection server is not used in determining the information associated with the encoded target phone number.

Alternatively multiple telephone numbers can be used to reach the connection server and the entire encoded target phone number can be used to determine the information associated with the encoded target phone number.

In one embodiment the encoded target phone numbers can have different numbers of digits. The advertisers may be arranged to bid for shorter encoded target phone numbers.

In one embodiment the encoded target phone numbers are assigned only when needed for use in a media channel. For example when a query is received at the server of the system the system assigns phone numbers for the advertisements that satisfy the query.

In one embodiment a look up table approach is used to encode the information. For example the database keeps track of the information about the media channel and the target phone number and other information if any for the encoded target phone number so that the encoded target phone number can be used as a key to retrieve the corresponding information. Thus it is not necessary to have a predetermined structure to encode the information about the media channels and the target phone number.

Alternatively algorithms can be used to generate and encode target phone number and associated information. For example a predetermined algorithm may be used to encode different information in the target phone number. For example the target phone number may include a number of fields separated by or . Each of the fields can be decoded separately e.g. from a separate look up table or a mapping algorithm to determine the target phone number identity of the media channel etc.

For example a set of parameters can be mapped from a string of characters to a string of numerical digits as a part of the encoded target phone number and the string of numbers can be mapped back into the string of characters at the connection server . When such a mapping scheme is used a look up table is not necessary. For example an encoded target phone number may include a first portion that is the phone number of the connection server a second portion that is the target phone number appended with a number mapped from an identifier of the media channel. To prevent the user from dialing the target phone number directly an encryption scrambling scheme can be used to encode the second portion which is decoded at the connection server .

In one embodiment the connection server determines the target phone number from the encoded target phone number dialed by the user and then dials the target phone number for the user and joins bridges the phone calls so that the user can talk to the target phone.

In one embodiment users dial the encoded target phone numbers manually. A user can dial the encoded target phone number regardless of the user device used and the media channel used.

Alternatively in one embodiment user devices can automatically dial the encoded target phone numbers. For example a cellular phone a computer or a PDA can dial a phone number using a Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF generator. In one embodiment the encoded target phone numbers are presented in the content information in a format such that when the user selects the phone number the user device e.g. a cellular phone or a computer dials the encoded target phone number for the user. The user selection may be in the form of a keyboard keypad input a touch pad input a track ball input a mouse input a voice command etc.

In one embodiment the user device initiates the phone call through a VoIP system when the user selects the encoded target phone number.

In one embodiment the user device dials the phone number for the user without the user manually pressing the sequence of the encoded target phone numbers. This greatly simplifies the process of make the phone call. Since a user device can dial a long sequence of number easily a large number of digits can be used to encode the information without presenting any difficulties for the users.

In one embodiment the encoded target phone numbers are formatted so that the user device dials a first portion of the encoded target phone numbers to access the connection server pauses for a short period of time for the connection server to prepare for receiving the second portion of the encoded target phone numbers and then dials the second portion of the encoded target phone numbers. Thus the user device provides a user friendly way of dialing the encoded target phone numbers and making the phone call can be as easy as making a click to access a web page.

In the user device initiates the phone call. Alternatively a connection server may be used to initiate phone calls both to the user device or a separate user phone and the target phone and then join bridge the phone calls to connect the user to the target phone. For example when the user selects the encoded target phone number the selection of the target phone number is transmitted to the connection server with the user phone number.

The user phone number can be automatically determined through ANI or through a user preference setting or through an entry submitted with the selection of the encoded target phone number.

In one embodiment the selection of the encoded target phone number is transmitted to the corresponding media channel which forwards the request for making the phone call to a server e.g. a web server connected to the connection server. Alternatively the content information can be formatted so that the selection is sent directly to the connection server.

When the connection server starts the phone calls the encoded target phone number can also include alphabetic characters and or other characters . The connection server can decode the encoded target phone number to recover retrieve the target phone number and other associated information such as the identity of the media channel that is creditable for providing the encoded target phone number to user.

In one embodiment an advertisement is presented to end users around the globe without geographical area limitations. For example an advertiser may provide services and or products to customers around the globe. The advertisement may be delivered to the worldwide users of the Internet.

In one embodiment the intended audience of an advertisement is the population in a particular geographical area or people interested in a particular geographical area. For example an advertiser may limit its service area within a geographical area where the advertiser can provide services and or products to the customers more effectively. For example a business may better serve the customers within a convenient walking driving distance to the site of the business. A business may limit the service area within a city a county a state a country or other types of regional areas. Further a large business entity having offices around the world may want to attract customers in different geographical regions to different offices for better services.

In one embodiment a target geographic area is specified for publicizing a phone number which can be used to reach an advertiser. The target geographic area information can be used to effectively reach potential customers and connect the customers to the corresponding phones of the advertisers.

For example in one embodiment the advertiser can specify a geographic service area corresponding to a phone number. The service area may be specified in terms of radius city region state or national boundary etc. The service area can be used to limit the delivery of the advertisement to customers seeking information in the corresponding geographic area. The service area can be used to stream information into a mobile device when the mobile device enters the service area with or without explicit request from the user of the mobile device. The service area information can also be used to route the phone to the corresponding one of the offices of the advertiser based on the location of the caller if the advertiser has more than one office.

In one embodiment an advertisement presented in a media channel is for a single advertiser. The end user selects an advertiser according to the advertisements presented on behalf of individual advertisers and the connection server connects the end user and the selected advertiser according to the encoded target phone number individually publicized in the advertisement for the advertiser. When the user views the online advertisements the selection of the advertiser is based on the online information.

In one embodiment an advertisement is presented in a media channel for a group of advertisers such as a group of mortgage brokers. The advertisement contains an encoded target phone number which is reachable to the group of mortgage brokers. When the encoded target phone number is selected or used the selection of a particular advertiser is performed at the connection server.

For example a toll free number is published to advertise mortgage brokers in a particular geographic area. When a consumer dials the toll free number the call is routed to the highest bidding mortgage broker who is available in that market.

The connection server may select the target advertiser according to the bidding of the advertisers for the advertisement. The advertiser who places the highest bid is the winner for the call. Alternatively or in combination other types of selection criteria can also be used. For example the user may be interested in advertisers in a particular geographical region and the geographical area of interest to the caller can be determined and used in selecting the target advertiser. Further the user may be interested in a connection without excessive waiting time. The status of the availability of the advertisers to answer the call can be used in ranking the candidates for routing the call.

In general an indicator used to rank the candidates may be a function of a number of parameters such as the bid for the advertisement the projected waiting time an indicator showing a degree of matching to one or more user requirements e.g. geographic area service type etc. advertisement budget and others.

In one embodiment a connection provider uses a connection server configured on a packet switched network to provide telephone connections between callers e.g. customers and callees e.g. advertisers as illustrated in . In the connection server receives and or places telephone calls via the telecommunication carrier over the packet switched network . The telecommunication carrier further routes the telephone communications towards the caller and the callee .

Since the telecommunication carrier can route a call from a packet switched network to a variety of destinations e.g. a traditional analog telephone set a mobile phone a cellular phone a WiFi phone a Bluetooth phone a softphone running on a computer etc. the connection sever can use one type of communication connection with the telephone carrier to facilitate the communication connections with variety of devices used by the customers e.g. callers and callees . Thus the implementation of the connection server can be simplified. In one embodiment the connection server can also place and or receive direct VoIP calls to from the caller or callee .

For example to make a voice connection in response to a click to call request the connection server can place separate VoIP calls via the telecommunication carrier to the caller e.g. the requester of the click to call and the callee e.g. the destination of the click to call request .

If the caller or the callee is on a public switched telephone network PSTN the telecommunication carrier bridges the packet switched the network and the public switched telephone network PSTN . The telecommunication carrier routes the call from the packet switched network to the caller or the callee on the circuit switched network. Thus the caller or the callee can use a telephone set to receive the call via a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS . The connection server joins the separate calls that are placed via the packet switched network to connect the callee and the caller .

In one embodiment call signaling and media content may use different network paths. While call signaling is arranged to go through the packet switched network and the connection server the media stream does not have to go through the connection server . For example when the calls are joined the media content may be redirected to flow over the communication carrier without going through the packet switched network to the connection server for improved performance and efficiency. The connection server can release the control over the media stream to allow the media stream to flow through the shortest path without going through the connection server while maintaining control to the connection for the call by staying on the path for call signaling.

In another example when the caller initiates a call over a PSTN to the connection server the telecommunication carrier converts the call for the packet switched network for the connection server .

In one embodiment virtual softphones on the telecommunication carrier are assigned to the caller and the callee for interfacing with the connection server over the packet switched network . The virtual softphones encapsulates the devices and networks used by the caller and callee to access the connection server and the telecommunication carrier shields the connection server from the implementation details of the user devices and networks used by the caller and the callee . The connection server calls or receives calls from and connects the virtual softphones on the telecommunication carrier to connect the caller and the callee .

In the telephone connection between the telecommunication carrier and the connection server is facilitated via a packet switched network . Thus the connection server can operate efficiently in a digital domain. The connection server interfaces with the telecommunication carrier using one type of Internet Telephony systems e.g. SIP based Internet telephony .

Alternatively a connection server may include some or all of the functionality of the telecommunication carrier . For example the connection server may be configured to bridge a packet switched network and a circuit switched network. The connection server may support multiple different types of Internet Telephony systems.

In one embodiment the connection server and the telecommunication carrier are operated by different separate entities. Alternatively the connection server and the telecommunication carrier may be operated by the same entity. In another embodiment the telecommunication carrier includes a set of facilities operated by a number of separate entities.

In one embodiment the caller and or the callee may also place receive calls via a packet switched network. The telecommunication carrier may route the calls between the caller and the callee without using a PSTN. In one embodiment caller and or the callee may place calls to or receive calls from the connection server via Internet.

In one embodiment the session border controller is configured to control the signaling and media stream during the setting up conducting and tearing down of VoIP calls to or from the connection server . In some embodiments the session border controller may pick up the call that comes to the session border controller places a separate call from the session border controller and joins the received call and the placed call to control both the signaling and media stream. In some embodiments the session border controller may perform signaling encoding translation to allow the connection server to process the VoIP calls in one standard while receiving VoIP calls in a variety of standards e.g. SIP H.323 etc. . In one embodiment the session border controller is configured to perform one or more firewall functionalities such as denial of service protection call filtering bandwidth management etc.

In one embodiment the session border controller is configured to perform media releasing operation. When the session border controller determines that the source and destination of a media stream is on the same side of the session border controller e.g. both the source and the destination of the media stream is outside the connection server the session border controller can release the hairpinning of the media stream and allow the media stream to flow without going through the session border controller .

In a set of SIP servers e.g. . . . are networked to the session border controller to receive messages for incoming calls and to initiate outgoing calls. The session border controller is configured to evenly distribute the calls for processing by the SIP servers.

For example when an incoming message for the initiation of a call is received e.g. a SIP INVITE message from the telecommunication carrier the session border controller may route it to a SIP server e.g. for processing. The INVITE message includes the phone number dialed by the caller and the contact information about the caller e.g. the phone number of the caller and or the identity of the virtual SIP phone at the telecommunication carrier .

The SIP server may determine whether the phone number dialed by the caller is sufficient to determine the phone number of the callee e.g. . If the phone number of the callee e.g. can be determined from the phone number dialed by the caller e.g. via decoding the phone number dialed by the callee or looking up the phone number of the callee from a table using the phone number dialed by the caller as a key the SIP server can place a separate SIP call to the callee via the packet switched network and then connect the caller and the callee. Alternatively the SIP server can further route the SIP INVITE message e.g. to the telecommunication carrier to direct the call to the callee. For example the SIP server may modify the INVITE message by replacing the destination with the determined phone number of the callee. Further the SIP server can modify the INVITE message by removing the phone number of the caller or replacing the phone number of the caller with a phone number of the connection server . In one embodiment the modified INVITE message identifies the virtual softphone corresponding to the caller on the telecommunication carrier as the SIP phone initiated the call thus the virtual softphone corresponding to the callee on the telecommunication carrier can establish media connection with the virtual softphone corresponding to the caller on the telecommunication carrier directly. Alternatively the modified INVITE message may identify a media server or a virtual softphone on SIP server as the initiator for a separate call. The SIP server then connects the calls for the media stream.

In one embodiment the caller is first connected to a media server e.g. or . For example the SIP server may forward the SIP INVITE message to one or more of the media servers for answering the call. When a media server e.g. answers the call a prompt is played to the caller by the media server. The media server may include an Interactive Voice Response IVR system or be connected to an IVR system to obtain input from the caller.

For example the media server may prompt the caller to enter the extension assigned to the callee such that the phone number of the callee can be determined based on the phone number including the extension dialed by the caller. In some embodiments the extension dialed by the caller is sufficient to determine the phone number of the callee. After the phone number of the callee is determined the SIP server can further connect the call to the callee.

For example the media server can send a message to the SIP server. The message identifies the call and the extension obtained from the caller. The SIP server then determines the callee s phone number based at least on the extension received from the media server and initiates a SIP call via the packet switched network e.g. by sending a SIP INVITE message to the telecommunication carrier which further bridges the call to the callee . Then the SIP server disconnects the media server from the call and reconnects the call to the callee.

For example the SIP server can send a SIP BYE message to the media server to disconnect the media server from the call e.g. by sending a BYE message to the media server for the call and send a re INVITE message towards the caller to connect the caller and the callee. Alternatively the media server may send a SIP BYE message to the SIP server for the call the BYE message may include the extension obtained from the caller in response to the BYE message that contains the extension the SIP server determines the phone number of the callee and further connects the caller to the callee.

In one embodiment the SIP server can direct the caller and the callee to connect to each other for the media stream without having the media stream going through the session border controller into the connection server . For example the media stream can go through the telecommunication carrier in without going to the connection server after the SIP server connects the caller and the callee.

However the SIP server stays on the signaling path to monitor the progress and termination of the call. The SIP server can also break the connection between the caller and the callee or force the media stream to come through the connection serve . For example the SIP server may selectively conference a media server into the call to monitor and or record the communication of the call between the caller and the callee. For example the SIP server may reconnect the caller and the callee to separate media servers for interaction with an IVR system or a human operator to confirm a deal or transaction.

Similarly the SIP server may initiate a callback to a caller via a SIP call over the packet switched network for a connection to the caller. The SIP call may be bridged onto a circuit switched network e.g. by a telecommunication carrier . The SIP server can then reconnect the call to a media server for sending a prompt to the caller before reconnect the call to the callee. Alternatively the callback can be initiated from a media server and the call signaling e.g. the INVITE message from the media server goes through the SIP server for call control. Alternatively the SIP server sends out the INVITE message on behalf of the media server.

In one embodiment the SIP servers . . . and media servers . . . are implemented on separate computers connected via a local area network and or intranet or Internet . Alternatively at least the some of the servers can be implemented on a same computer. In one embodiment the SIP servers and the media servers are also integrated with the session border controller on a same data process system having multiple processors coupled with a data bus. In one embodiment the SIP servers are coupled to the media servers via a network and a SIP server may use any of the available media server for interaction with the caller or callee . Alternatively a SIP server may be configured to use one or more of media servers that are not shared by other SIP server. For example a SIP server may be implemented on a same data processing system with one or more media servers which are reserved for the SIP server.

In one embodiment the connection server may further include a database server to storing records related to the calls data mapping between the communication references assigned to the callees and the actual phone numbers of the callees etc. In one embodiment contact mapping are cached in the local memory e.g. RAM of the servers for improved performance and the cached mapping is updated when the database is updated.

In the communication device is a form of a data processing system. The system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s . Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In one embodiment a server data processing system as illustrated in is used as one of the communication server s connection server s database server s media server s controller s router s gateway s etc.

A user terminal as a client system can be a data processing system similar to the system of . A client system can be in the form of a PDA a cellular phone a notebook computer or a personal desktop computer. For example the I O devices of the user device may include a USB phone a Bluetooth wireless phone or one or more speakers or headphones with one or microphones for the implementation of a software based phone.

In one embodiment a user devices phones support one or more real time communication capabilities such as VoIP using Session Initiation Protocol SIP which may support video and instant messaging applications IP phone regular phone over VoIP service Bluetooth wireless phone USB phone software based phone and other forms of IP telephony. Other types of traditional communication client s may be used in some embodiments.

In one embodiment after a customer uses the reference provided in the advertisement e.g. the phone number assigned to the advertiser to initiate a communication session in response to the advertisement prompts may be provided to the customer e.g. to welcome the customer to ask the customer to confirm the connection to inform the customer about the status of the connection process etc. . In one embodiment the prompts are customized based at least partially upon the communication reference that is used to initiate the communication process the performance of the advertisements the traffic volume of the advertisements the revenue potential of the advertisements and or other attributes of the advertisements.

For example when a phone number dialed by the customer is associated with more than one advertiser advertisement a prompt to the customer can be used to ensure that the customer is connected to the right advertiser. For example when a customer is calling from outside of an area of service of an advertiser the customer may be prompted to ensure that the customer is calling the right advertiser. In one embodiment the information about the advertiser advertisement is selectively used to customize the prompt during the call received from a customer who is responding to the advertisement.

In a phone number can be associated with multiple advertisers advertisement listings. The phone number may or may not include an extension. Since the phone number provided in an advertisement may not be sufficient to identify the advertisement advertiser a prompt can be dynamically generated and provided to the customer to resolve the ambiguity and to select the right advertisement advertiser.

In one embodiment the same communication reference such as a phone number can be assigned to multiple advertisers advertisements. The system can track when the reference is assigned to a particular advertisement and or when the reference is last presented in the corresponding advertisement.

For example in the phone number is assigned to advertisement listing A at time and last presented at time the phone number is assigned to listing B at time and last presented at time . The identifiers and associate the date and or time stamps e.g. etc. with the data of the corresponding advertisement listings e.g. etc. .

In the advertisement listing has the advertiser s phone number which is not presented to the customer. For a presentation to the customer the advertiser s phone number is replaced with the assigned phone number . The advertisement listing has a description e.g. specified by the advertiser a price bid per call e.g. specified by the advertiser a conversion rate e.g. computed from statistical data to show a ratio between past presentations of the advertisement and customer phone calls resulted from the past presentations etc. Similarly the advertisement listing has the corresponding advertiser s phone number a description a price bide per call a conversion rate etc.

In one embodiment the date and time stamps e.g. time assigned time last presented etc. are used to determine whether the association relation between the listing and the assigned phone number has expired. Other types of data and time stamps such as the time last called for a particular advertisement can also be used.

In one embodiment the time at which the phone number is assigned to an advertisement can be substantially different from the time at which the advertisement is presented. For example an online demand partner may request the advertisement but fail to present the advertisement to a customer. For example a phone number may be assigned to an advertisement for advertising on a printed media and the time at which the advertisement including the phone number is presented to the customer may not be available.

In another embodiment the time at which the phone number is assigned to an advertisement may be considered as the time at which the advertisement is presented. For example the advertisement may be presented on an interactive media which allows the customer to particularly request the display of the phone number. The phone number is assigned in response to such a request from the customer. Thus the time at which the phone number is assigned can be substantially the same as the time at which the phone number is presented.

In one embodiment the system uses a time period threshold to determine the expiration of the association relation and thus allow the reuse of the phone numbers without ambiguity or with a reduced degree of ambiguity. For example after the time period that is longer than the threshold elapses since the assignment of the phone number to the advertisement or since the last presentation of the advertisement or since the last received call to the advertisement via the phone number the phone number may be considered as being no longer associated with the advertisement. Thus records that are older than the time period threshold may be discarded or ignored during the process of identifying the advertisement advertiser that is being called by the customer.

In one embodiment different time period thresholds can be used to determine the expiration of the association relation between the phone number and the corresponding advertisements. The thresholds may be based on how the phone number is assigned the type of the media channel that is used to present the advertisements the advertisement categories of the advertisements the performance of the advertisements etc. For example an assignment that is in response to the request from a customer via an interactively displayed advertisement can be set to expire in one time period and an assignment for an offline presentation of an advertisement may be set to expire in another time period.

In one embodiment the expiration times of the association relations are tracked directly. For example events related to the advertisement such as the assignment of the phone number to the advertisement a presentation of the advertisement and a received phone call generated from the advertisement can be used to establish and or update the expiration time of the association relation. For example after the presentation of an advertisement via a web interface the association relation may be set to expire within a period of time. The time period may be determined based on a statistical data related to the time gap between the presentation and a subsequent response to the advertisement. If within the time period a phone call is received as a response to the advertisement the expiration time of the association relation can be revised in view of the phone call.

In one embodiment a phone number is re assigned after the previous assignments are expired. Alternatively a phone number may be reassigned before the expiration of the previous assignments e.g. when no other phone numbers available for assignment . For example a phone number that is assigned to an advertisement that is less frequently called or less likely being called may also be assigned to another advertisement.

In one embodiment when the phone number is assigned to a new advertisement and the phone number is still currently associated with an old advertisement an extension number or an additional extension number or additional digits in the extension can be provided to differentiate the advertisements. Thus whether the customer dials the additional digits can be used to select a specific advertisement. Further if the association relation between the old advertisement and phone number expires before a call from a customer is received the customer does not have to dial the extension.

In another embodiment the same phone number is assigned to the new advertisement without assigning additional digits. At the time a phone call is received at the phone number the customer is prompted to select an advertisement.

For example at the time a phone call to the phone number is received the data records may show that both advertisements and are currently associated with the phone number. Thus the customer is asked to select one. The prompt may include presenting an aspect of the advertisement to allow the customer to confirm whether the call is intended for the advertisement .

For example a business name of the advertisement can be presented in the prompt provided to the customer e.g. via a text to speech synthesizer or a recording of an announcer and the customer can press a key e.g. or or 1 or provide a voice command e.g. connect to confirm that the customer is calling the advertisement . If the advertisement is not selected the business name of the advertisement is presented in the prompt. Thus the advertisements e.g. and are sequentially presented for selection by the customer. Other aspects of the advertisements such as the category of the advertisements the geographic area of the advertisements brief description of the advertisements etc. can also be used in the prompt to formulate the selection options.

In one embodiment the order in which the advertisements and are presented in the prompt for selection is determined based on the timing of association relations between the phone number and the corresponding advertisements. For example the advertisement that is presented latest can be prompted first. For example in the prompt the advertisements can be presented according to the reverse order of assignments of the phone number to the corresponding advertisement.

In one embodiment the order in which the advertisements and are presented in the prompt is determined based at least in part on the performance of the advertisements. For example the advertisements and can be presented sequentially in the prompt based on a conversion rate of the advertisements. The conversion rate indicates the ratio between a count of presentations of an advertisement and the customer phone calls resulted from the presentation. The higher the conversion rate the more likely the advertisement is to get customer response. Thus the advertisement with a higher conversion rate is prompted before the advertisement with a lower conversion rate.

In one embodiment the likelihood of the call being generated from the advertisements is estimated based on the statistical data of the past responses received for the advertisements. The advertisements e.g. and are prompted in an order according to the likelihood of the call being generated from the advertisements.

In one embodiment the advertisements are prompted in an order according to the advertisement revenue potential of the advertisements. For example the advertisements can be prompted in the order of the price bid per call e.g. and of the advertisements. The advertisement that offers the highest price bid per call is presented first. For example assuming that the call is for a specific advertisement the advertisement revenue that would be generated for a specific party e.g. after deducting the portion that is earned by an advertising partner such as a demand partner can be computed and the advertisements are sorted according to the computed advertisement revenue for the specific party.

In one embodiment taking into account of the likelihood of the call being for a specific advertisement the expectation of the advertisement revenue generated from connecting the call to the advertiser of the specific advertisement can be estimated and the advertisements are sorted according to the expectation of the advertisement revenue for presentation in the prompt.

In one embodiment the likelihood of a customer being not patient enough to wait through the prompt is considered and estimated. The sequence in which the advertisements are presented in the prompt is then selected to maximize improve the expectation of the advertisement revenue generated from the received call.

In one embodiment the system determines whether there is an indication that a customer s phone call is intended for a different advertisement. In one example when the phone number dialed by the customer is assigned to multiple advertisements a prompt is presented to allow the customer to select the desired advertisement. In another example when the system determines that the customer is calling from a geographic location that is outside a geographic area of service of an advertisement that is associated with the phone number the system may provide a prompt to ask the customer to confirm the call to the advertiser as illustrated in .

In the customer s geographic location is determined. For example the customer s geographic location can be determined or estimated based on the phone number from which the customer s phone call is initiated. Alternatively for example when the customer calls from a mobile phone the mobile phone may determine the current location and provide the location information. Alternatively for example the base stations of a cellular communication network can determine the location of a cellular phone. Alternatively the customer can provide the geographic location via the communication connection between the customer and the system e.g. via providing a zip code .

In the phone number dialed by the customer is uniquely associated with advertisement in the database . When the geographical location of the customer is within the geographic area of service there is no indication that the customer has dialed a wrong number and thus the customer can be connected to the advertiser s phone number without a prompt. When the geographical location of the customer is outside the geographic area of service there appears a possibility that the customer may have dialed a wrong number and thus the customer is prompted to confirm whether the call is for the advertiser.

For example the prompt may present the business name to the customer via the phone connection to ask the customer whether the customer intends to reach the specified business. The prompt may further include the description and or other aspects of the advertisement such as the categories of the advertisement. The customer is connected to the advertiser s phone number if the customer confirms the intention otherwise the customer can be connected to an operator or an interactive voice response IVR system for the identification of the advertiser.

In one embodiment when a phone number dialed by the customer corresponds to multiple advertisements one or more advertisements can be eliminated by comparing the geographical location of the customer and the geographic area of services of the advertisements. For example an advertisement having a geographic area that does not cover the geographic location of the customer is eliminated. In another embodiment the sequence of prompting the customer for the advertisements is based on whether the geographic location of the customer is inside the geographic area of service of the corresponding advertisements.

In a customer dials the phone number that is associated with the advertisement listing in the database . Before the customer is connected to the advertiser s phone number the customer may be provided with a prompt for enhanced experience based on the performance of the advertisement e.g. conversion rate call frequency and or the price bid per call .

For example when the performance of the advertisement such as conversion rate is above a threshold a customized prompt can be provided to the customer for enhanced experience. The customized prompt may greet the customer with the business name inform the customer the current status of connecting to the advertiser provide the description while the customer is waiting to be connected to the advertiser etc. The customized prompt may optionally include the information about advertisement categories geographic area of service etc.

In one embodiment whether to play a recording of a custom prompt to the customer is based on the performance of the advertisement and or the price bid of the advertisement. The custom prompt can be the recording of a human announcer or the recording provided by the advertiser.

In one embodiment the performance of the advertisement may be measured based on the number of phone calls generated in a time period. An advertisement having a number of calls larger than a threshold can be provided with a customized prompt to enhance customer experience.

In one embodiment whether to customize the prompt is at least partially based upon the price bid per call . For example when the price bid per call of the advertisement is above a threshold value the customer of the advertisement is provided with a customized prompt. The customization of the prompt can also be based upon the revenue potential for a specific party e.g. the connection provider tracker . In one embodiment multiple levels of customization are provided based on the statistical data of customer calls that are in response to the advertisement and or the price bid per call .

In one embodiment the communication references used to facilitate the tracking of communication leads generated from advertisements are organized in a hierarchical structure such that a portion of a communication reference can be used to identify at least one attribute of a set of advertisements.

For example a root phone number can be used to represent a common attribute of a set of advertisements and extensions to the root phone number can be used to uniquely identify the individual advertisements. When a phone call is received at the root phone number the common attributes associated with the root phone number can be used to customize the prompt and the customer is further prompted to dial the extensions.

When the customer s phone call is connected to the root number a prompt announcing the name of the media channel is provided to the customer. The prompt may further include the advertisement category and ask the customer to further enter the extension. After the extension is received one of the advertisements is identified based on the received extension and the description e.g. or can be further used to customize the prompt while connecting the customer to the advertiser s phone number e.g. and .

Optionally if the customer does not wish to enter the extension manually the customer can be provided with the option to select one advertisement without having to enter the extension directly. Aspects of the advertisements e.g. that are associated with the root phone number or an intermediate level extension can be presented sequentially e.g. in an order according to the conversion rate e.g. etc. frequency of phone calls received for the advertisements e.g. etc. price bid per call e.g. etc. revenue potential etc. and the customer can press a key e.g. 0 etc. or speak a voice command e.g. connect to select an advertisement e.g. during or shortly after the presentation for the advertisement .

In one embodiment when it is determined that a root number or an intermediate extension number is sufficient to identify an advertisement e.g. after other advertisements are no longer associated with the root number or have been eliminated based on the geographic location of the customer the system can customized the subsequent portion of the prompt to ask the user to confirm dialing the advertiser of the advertisement instead of prompting the user to further dial the extension.

In one embodiment prompts to callers are designed to decrease the connection of misdialed and or misdirected calls through the connection provider to the advertisers. Testing results of prompts played according to embodiments of the disclosure showed that playing a prompt to the caller decreased the number of misdirected calls connected while maintaining if not increasing the overall call quality e.g. call length .

For example looking to get his car fixed Greg searches the Internet for San Francisco Ford Car Repair e.g. searching via a demand partner of the connection provider . An advertisement containing a 1 800 number of the system is retrieved and presented to Greg. Greg dials the 1 800 number of the system and hears a prompt saying Please hold while we connect you to Scott s Auto Body Shop. Since Greg intended to call the auto body shop he remains on the line while the system connects the call through to the advertiser Scott s Auto Body Shop.

In another example trying to dial a 1 800 number John accidentally misdials to call an active number of an advertisement such as the 1 800 number of the system assigned to the advertisement of Scott s Auto Body Shop. Hearing a prompt saying Please hold while we connect you to Scott s Auto Body Shop. John realizes that he has dialed the wrong number and hangs up the phone before it starts to ring on the advertiser side. As a result the advertiser Scott s Auto Body Shop does not receive a dirty lead and is more satisfied by the quality leads delivered by the system.

In one embodiment the prompts to callers are designed in a way to improve the caller experience and the quality of leads delivered.

In after a call is received at a phone number of a connection server from a source it is determined whether the call should be blocked based on identification information of the source. If the call is to be blocked a prompt message is provided to explain the reason for not further connecting the call and the call is ended .

For example if the system determines that the caller s phone number as determined via an automatic number identification ANI service is not valid a prompt message such as We re sorry our system has detected that you are calling from a telephone number that is not valid. If you feel that you have reached this message in error please contact us at 1 800 549 1744. is played to the caller explaining that the call will not be connected and offering no mechanism to connect.

In one embodiment the calls from phone numbers associated with known spammers or from callers who have been complained about by the advertisers are blocked.

In if the call is not to be blocked it is determined whether there is a need for an input from the caller. If there is a need for an input from the caller a prompt message is provided to the caller to require input from the caller to further connect the call to the advertiser and the caller is connected to a human operator or an IVR system to obtain the required input.

For example if the connection server have received more than a threshold number of calls from the phone number of the current caller within a predetermined time period a prompt message such as To connect to Scott s Auto Body Shop please press 1. If this is not the business you are trying to reach please press 9. is played to the caller asking the caller to take an action in order to be connected through to the advertiser associated with the phone number dialed by the caller. Thus if there is no human behind the call to provide the correct input the call can be blocked.

In one embodiment the connection server checks if the call is received from an auto dialer. For example based on call statistics such as the speed of dialing a call the pattern of phone numbers called e.g. calling numbers in a sequential pattern etc. the connection server may identify certain calling phone numbers as potential auto dialers. The connection server can maintain a list of calling phone numbers that are potential auto dialers and check the current calling phone number against the list.

Further in one embodiment the connection server can estimate the probability likelihood of the calling phone numbers being auto dialers based on the collected data about past calls. When the connection server determines that the current call is likely from an auto dialer a prompt message can be played to ask the caller to take an action.

In one embodiment a prompt message can be played to require an input from the caller to confirm the call to confirm the call to the advertiser currently associated with the phone number dialed by the caller to confirm an identity of the caller to collect payment information etc.

In if there is no need for an input from the caller a preference of the caller is determined . The caller may have previously indicated to the system a preference about the prompt. The caller may indicate the preference via registering with the system and associate a preference option with a phone number of the caller. Alternatively the caller may indicate a preference in a prior phone call to the connection server.

In when the preference of the caller is to always play a prompt message a prompt message is provided to announce the identity of the callee while the connection server is connecting the call to the callee. The connection server can connect the caller to the callee without further input from the callee.

For example a no action required prompt such as Please hold while we connect you to Scott s Auto Body Shop can be played to identify the callee asking the caller to stay on the line in order to be connected through to the advertiser who is currently associated with the phone number dialed by the caller.

When the preference of the caller is no prompt the connection server can connect the caller to the advertiser associated with the phone number dialed by the caller without providing the prompt message.

Alternatively the caller may set the preference to let the system decide whether to play a prompt message. The connection server then determines whether to play a prompt message based on a likelihood of the call being not for a callee currently associated with the phone number as illustrated in .

In the connection server determines whether the number of calls connected to the callee the advertiser currently associated with the phone number dialed by the caller is less than a threshold within a predetermined period of time. If the number of calls connected to the callee is less than the threshold a prompt message announcing the identity of the callee is provided not requiring the user to take an action and the caller is connected to the callee without further input from the caller.

In the connection server determines whether the telephone number dialed by the caller has received a high ratio of abnormal calls within a period of time. If a high abnormal ratio is detected a prompt message announcing the identity of the callee is provided and the caller is connected to the callee.

For example the connection server can compute real time ratios for different time periods of calls to the phone number dialed by the caller and comparing the ratios to the historical average computed over a predetermined period of time e.g. the last 30 days . For example the connection server can calculate the ratio of short calls in calls received at the phone number in the last 5 minutes last 30 minutes last 6 hours last 12 hours and last 24 hours etc. . . . . If any of these ratios are greater than the historical average over the last 30 days multiplied by a factor the connection server may consider this phone number dialed by the caller dirty since there is a high probability that the caller dials the phone number with an intention to reach a party other than the advertiser currently associated with the phone number. Thus a caller prompt that does not require the user to take action can be provided to reduce or avoid the chance of delivering a dirty lead to the advertiser. After the ratios of abnormal calls fall back to the normal range the caller prompt may not be needed.

One example of a dirty phone number is a misprinted number in a newspaper advertisement. Another example of a dirty phone number is a phone number that was previously allocated to a different advertiser. The connection server can perform the dirty phone number check based on the ratio of abnormal calls and or other indicators. For example when the time duration between the presentation allocation of a phone number for a previous advertiser and the presentation allocation of the same phone number for the current advertiser the phone number can be considered dirty and need a prompt. In one embodiment the prompt may allow the user to select from being connected to the current advertiser and being connected to the previous advertiser. A user input may be optional if the user wants to be connected to the advertiser who is currently associated with the phone number.

In the connection server determines whether the caller is outside the service area of the advertiser associated with the number at which the current call is received. If the caller is current outside the service area of the advertiser a prompt message announcing the identity of the callee is provided and the caller is connected to the callee.

For example if the caller is calling from a landline or a cell phone that is determined to be currently outside the advertisement s service area a prompt is played to identify the advertiser and or the service area of the advertiser without requiring the user to take an action while the connection server makes the connection.

In one embodiment the determinations made by the connection server as illustrated in can be performed in various different sequences and combinations. More or less of the determinations of the likelihood of a call being not for the advertiser who is currently associated with the phone number being called can be implemented. Further at least some of the situations may be selected to require a user input to confirm the connection to the callee.

In one embodiment local telephone numbers of a connection server are assigned dynamically to advertisements just in time when the advertisements are requested for presentation. The use of local telephone number in advertisements for connecting callers to the respective advertisers of the advertisements can increase call through rates. For example local telephone numbers can convert better than toll free numbers in at least some situations.

In one embodiment local telephone numbers of the connection server are assigned to the advertisements based on a number of considerations. For example when the service area of the advertiser is small a local telephone number representative of the service area can be assigned to the advertisement. For example when the request for advertisements includes a location based query criterion a local telephone number representative of the area according to the location requirement can be assigned to the advertisement. For example information about the location of the end user to who the advertisement is to be presented can be used to select the local telephone number. For example the IP address of a query submitted from the end user can be used to determine the location of the user and assign a local telephone number accordingly. A telephone call to the local telephone number may or may not be toll free.

In it is determined whether the service area is small enough to be represented by an area code and or a prefix of a telephone number. If it is small enough a telephone number local to the service area is allocated for the advertisement and the allocated telephone number is provided with the advertisement as a response to the request.

For example when the service area of an advertisement is of a small confined area such as a zip code city or region the advertisement for a local area can be assigned a local telephone number according to the service address of the advertisement. For example when Greg queries for a car dealer in San Francisco an advertisement of a car dealer can be assigned a local telephone number that is representative of the service address of the car dealer. When Scott executes the same query the same local number is returned in the same advertisement.

In if the service area of the advertisement is not of a small confined area it is determined whether the request includes a geographic location requirement. If the request includes a location requirement a telephone number local to the area according to the geographic location requirement is allocated for the advertisement.

For example the location modifier of a query can be used to select the local number that is to be returned as the contact information of the advertisement. For example Charlie s Boats has an advertisement with a service area covering California. When Greg queries for a boat dealer in San Francisco the advertisement for Charlie s Boats is returned with a local number e.g. 415 243 xxxx that is representative of the San Francisco city. However when Scott queries for a boat dealer in Los Angeles the advertisement for Charlie s Boats is returned with a local number e.g. 310 944 xxxx that is representative of the Los Angeles city. The telephone calls from Greg and Scott received at the different local numbers can be connected to the same phone number of Charlie s Boats. Alternatively when Charlie s Boats have different offices in California the telephone calls from Greg and Scott can be connected to the nearest offices of Charlie s Boats.

In if the request includes no location requirement a geographic location of the request is estimated based on information identifying the source of the request e.g. an IP address of an end user . A telephone number local to the estimated geographic location is allocated and provided with the advertisement as a response to the request.

For example when no location information was provided in a query the IP address of the query can be used to derive a telephone number that is local to the location from which the query is received. For example Greg can execute a query from within San Francisco and be presented with an advertisement having a local telephone number e.g. 415 243 xxxx that is representative of the San Francisco city while Scott can query from Los Angeles and be presented with an advertisement having a local telephone number e.g. 310 944 xxxx that is representative of the Los Angeles city.

For example when the query is received from a cellular phone a cellular base station that is in communication with the cellular phone can be used to estimate the location of the cellular phone. For example when the request is received via a wireless access point the location of the access point can be used to estimate the location of the requester. For example when the request is received via a demand partner the demand partner may provide a location indication about the request. For example a location preference of a registered user can be used to estimate the location for the query from the user.

In one embodiment when no accurate location can be estimated for the request to determine a local phone number a toll free telephone number is allocated for the advertisement that has a wide service area.

In one embodiment to limit the cost associated with building and managing inventory of many local numbers required to have coverage across one or more large geographical areas local numbers with extensions could be used to uniquely represent different advertisers and or other parameters to be tracked such as the identities of the demand affiliates bid prices etc.

For example different tiers of services can be provided for demand affiliates. For example demand affiliate A that generates less than a threshold number of queries e.g. one million a month may be issued local numbers of the connection provider with different extensions for different advertisements. For example demand affiliate B that generates more than a threshold number of queries e.g. one million a month may be issued local numbers of the connection provider without an extension.

Whether an advertisement is assigned a local number without an extension or a local number with an extension can be determined based on the performance of the advertisement. For example advertisements received greater than a threshold number of calls e.g. 100 calls a month may be assigned local numbers without an extension whereas advertisements received less than a threshold number of calls e.g. 100 calls a month can be assigned local numbers with extensions. For example whether an advertisement is assigned a local number without an extension or a local number with an extension can be determined based an earning potential of presenting the advertisement via the demand affiliate or a bid price of the advertiser or the current availability of clean local telephone numbers.

In one embodiment responsive to a request from a user a telephone number is selected from a plurality of telephone numbers of a connection server to match a location indicator of the request. The selected telephone number to be embedded in the advertiser and be used by the user to initiate a telephone call to the connection server for further connection to an advertiser of the advertisement. In one embodiment the plurality of telephone numbers are local to a plurality of different cities.

In one embodiment the location indicator comprises a location search criterion submitted by the user as part of the request. In another embodiment the location indicator of the request is determined based on an identifier of the user received with the request such as a phone number of the user an Internet address of the user a member ID of the user etc. In one embodiment the location indication of the request is determined based on a location of a wireless access point used by the user to submit the request.

After a telephone call is received at the local telephone number of the connection server a prompt message is provided to the caller based on an area represented by the local telephone number. The caller is further connected to an advertiser of the advertisement.

In one embodiment responsive to receiving the telephone call at the telephone number of the connection server from the user it is determined whether to play a prompt message to the user based at least in part on statistic data about telephone calls collected at the connection server such as a number of calls connected to the advertiser within a predetermined period of time a number of abnormal calls connected to the advertiser within a predetermined period of time a number of calls received from the user within a predetermined period of time etc.

In one embodiment a prompt message is played in the telephone call to the user in response to a determination that the number of calls connected to the advertiser is below a threshold within the predetermined period of time.

In one embodiment a prompt message is played to the user in response to a determination that the number of calls received from the user within the predetermined period of time is above a threshold and the telephone call is connected to an interactive voice response IVR system or a human operator for an input from the user. After the required input is received via the IVR system or the human operator the telephone call is connected to the advertiser.

In one embodiment responsive to receiving the telephone call at the telephone number of the connection server from the user it is determined whether to play a prompt message to the user based at least in part on an average speed of making calls by the user during a period of time. When the average speed is above a threshold a prompt message is played to the user in the telephone call the telephone call is connected to an interactive voice response IVR system or a human operator for an input from the user and after the required input is received the telephone call is further connected to the advertiser.

In one embodiment responsive to receiving the telephone call at the telephone number of the connection server from the user it is determined whether to play a prompt message to the user based at least in part on whether a valid telephone number of the user can be determined via an automatic number identification ANI service. When no valid telephone number of the user can be determined from the ANI service a prompt message is played to the user in the telephone call to terminate the telephone call.

In one embodiment responsive to receiving the telephone call at the telephone number of the connection server from the user it is determined whether to play a prompt message to the user based at least in part on a preference received from the user prior to the telephone call. For example the user may specify the preference of no prompt always prompt or let the system decide . Different sets of options can be offered in different embodiments.

In one embodiment the connection server can receive a first Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP call via a telecommunication carrier from the user using the telephone number provided in the advertisement determine a telephonic reference of the advertiser based on the telephone number used receive the first VoIP call initiate a second Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP call via a telecommunication carrier to the advertiser using the telephonic reference of the advertiser and bridge the first and second VoIP calls to connect the user and the advertiser. In one embodiment a media connection that does not go through the connection server is established to connect the user and the advertiser and to bridge the first and second VoIP calls.

In one embodiment responsive to receiving the telephone call at the telephone number of the connection server from the user a prompt message in the telephone call is customized for the user based on a geographic area represented by the telephone number. For example the prompt message can be customized to identify the advertiser when a location of the user as determined for the telephone call is outside the geographic area represented by the telephone number.

In one embodiment the advertiser is to be charged an advertisement fee responsive to the connection server connecting the telephone call of the user to the advertiser and the advertisement fee is determined based on a bid price specified by the advertiser.

In one embodiment the connection server is configured to customize prompts presented during the process of establishing connections between callers and callees based on information such as the identity of the callers etc. For example interactive voice response IVR prompts configured for setting up accounts and or for collecting payment information can be skipped if the identity of the caller and or the respective account payment information can be securely identified by the call itself e.g. based on an automatic number identification ANI service a caller identification service etc. .

For example the IVR prompts may be customized in a language selected based on the preference of the caller. In one embodiment one or more listings provided to the caller to present callees may include the language capability of the callees that may provide services of interest to the caller and the caller may select a preferred language in searching for service providers. Alternatively or in combination the caller may select a language preference in an account setup for the caller and thus when the identity of the caller is determined from the call the language preference of the prompts can be determined in an automated way in accordance with the language preference of the caller. The IVR prompts can be configured to allow the caller to further change the prompt language for the current call and the language preference of the caller can be determined based on historic language selection patterns in establishing previous connections for previous requests for the same caller or similar callers in the same geographic region.

In one embodiment the connection server is further configured to selectively connect the caller to a human operator or the IVR system to collect payment information in setting up an account for the caller. For example certain groups of users or users in certain regions may generally prefer interacting with human operators for making payments rather than interacting with an IVR system and other users may prefer interacting with an IVR system rather than a human operator. The information about the caller determined from the call itself can be used to customize the prompt and or routing for the payment processing to reduce the need for switching and or further prompts.

In one embodiment a mobile web page is provided to improve the user experience when a mobile device is used to request the connections. The mobile web page allows the user consumer or caller to sign in using a username and a password and view listings of service providers advisers or callees. The mobile web page running on the mobile device is configured to be associated with the payment information or account information of the user. Access to the mobile web page for fee based services is secured via the username and the password and or other security measures known in the field such as security token devices biometric authentication biometrics etc. Thus when a connection request is identified to be from the mobile device the payment information or account information of the user can be applied without the respective prompts.

In one embodiment of preventing unauthorized use of the mobile device and thus the payment information or account information of the user the mobile web page is configured to register the mobile device with the payment information or account information of the user for a predetermined period of time when the mobile web page is determined to be used by an authorized user. During the predetermine period of time in which the mobile device is associated with the payment information or account information of the user an incoming call from the mobile device can be determined to be authorized to use the associated payment information or account information of the user for services provided in the incoming call.

For example when the call now button of a listing of a service provider adviser or callee is clicked within the mobile web page the mobile web page is configured to transmit a message from the mobile device to the connection server to register the mobile device with the user account payment information configured for the mobile web page. The call now button is also configured to instruct the mobile device to initiate a call e.g. via an Application Programming Interface API provided by the platform of the mobile device. When the connection server receives the call initiated by the mobile device the connection server identifies the mobile device and or the caller based on information transmitted with the call. For example the mobile device may be identified based on caller identification information an automatic number identification ANI service handshake data in a VoIP call etc. If the call is determined from the mobile device and received within the time period for associating the mobile device and the payment information or account information of the user the fund source as identified by the payment information or account information of the user is authorized to pay for the services provided via the communication connection established for the call and the portion of the IVR prompts related to account setup and payment processing can be skipped. Otherwise the caller is presented with IVR prompts to authenticate the user for using the payment information or account information of the user or set up a separate account and or provide alternative payment methods.

When the telephonic apparatus is not pre associated with payment information the call from the telephonic apparatus is routed to an IVR system of the connection server to process payment for the call prior to the call being routed to the intended destination e.g. communication device of a service provider adviser or callee .

In a mobile web page is provided in a memory of a mobile device . A communication reference identifies the mobile device . The mobile device is configured to authenticate a user of the mobile device for the use of the mobile web page. The authentication may be performed via a credential of an account . For example if the user presents a credential matching the credential stored in the account the user is authorized to use the mobile web page in connection with the account . Otherwise the mobile web page does not provide services in connection with the account . The user may provide a proper credential for a different account or use the mobile web page in an anonymous mode. The mobile web page may require re authentication of the user after an inactive period or after the user signs off the session to prevent authorized use of the account .

In the account includes payment information that identifies a funding source for the payment of services provided in the account . For example the payment information may include a credit card number to pay for service charges. For example the account may have a stored value balance that represents funds prepaid to the connection server for subsequent debiting for services provided in the account . For example the funding source may include a credit card number that can be charged to increase the stored value balance.

In when the communication reference is stored in association with the account in a database of the connection server in coming calls identified with the communication reference are authorized to use the funds of the account . When the communication reference is not associated with the account in the database in coming calls identified with the communication reference are provided with IVR prompts to identify and or establish funds for the respective calls.

In during the time period in which the user has been authenticated to use the mobile web page the mobile web page is configured to transmit a message via a data connection to the connection server to associate the communication reference of the mobile device with the account for which the user has been successfully authenticated using the credential . The message allows the connection server to associate the communication reference with the account for a predetermined period of time. After the predetermined period of time the association is no longer valid.

For example the mobile web page can be configured to transmit the message to associate the communication reference with the account in the database in response to a request received in the mobile web page for a connection to a selected service provider adviser or callee. Further to improve security the predetermined time period for association is based on the expected time period for a call from the mobile device to reach the connection server .

For example when a call now button or link e.g. illustrated in is activated to request a call to the communication device identified by the destination reference in a communications network the mobile web page executed by microprocessor s of the mobile device causes a communications circuit to establish a voice connection with the connection server identified by the call in reference in the communications network. To determine the funding source of the call received from the mobile device the connection server checks the database to determine whether the communication reference is associated with an account e.g. . When the call is received within the predetermined time period of association between the communication reference and the account established via the message containing the identification of the communication reference and the account and transmitted from the mobile web page to the connection server via the data connection in response to the activation of the call now button or link the fees for the call can be charged to the account the IVR prompts for account setup or user authentication can be skipped.

In one embodiment when the call now button or link is selected the message transmitted from the mobile web page via the data connection to the connection server further includes other information such as the identifier of the communication device of the service provider adviser or callee. The identifier is generally different from the destination reference to protect the privacy of the service provider adviser or callee such that the mobile device is prevented from making a direct connection with the communication device of the service provider adviser or callee. In response to the message the connection server is configured to look up the destination reference associated with the identifier and initiate a call from the connection server to the communication device identified by the destination reference .

In one embodiment of the connection server when the message responsive to the activation of the call now button or link is received the connection server initiates the call to the destination reference while waiting for the call from the mobile device . Alternatively the connection sever may initiate the call to the destination reference after the call from the mobile device is received. Alternatively the connection sever may redirect or forward the call from the mobile device to the destination reference .

In the mobile web page shows a balance of the stored value in the account after the user signs in the account using a credential matching the credential stored in the account .

In the user may select a sign off button or link to use the application in an anonymous mode or to lock the application .

In the user interface presented by the mobile web page is configured to present listings of service providers advisers or callees which may provide services of interest to the user of the mobile device . For example the user interface includes an entry box to receive search criteria and a search button or link to request a search. The user interface may provide other tools to selectively present service providers advisers or callees such as categories directories randomly selected top rated callees etc.

In a typical listing includes an image of the service provider adviser or callee a rating of the service provider adviser or callee as determined by feedback from prior customers of the service provider adviser or callee a title of the services offered a description of the services and or the service provider adviser or callee a rate of the service charges specified by the service provider adviser or callee and a call now button or link for requesting a connection to the service provider adviser or callee.

For example in one embodiment the system illustrated in with a mobile device having a mobile web page showing a user interface illustrated in is configured to perform the method of and or .

In the connection server provides a mobile web page to a mobile device . The mobile web page running on the mobile device is configured to identify a communication reference and payment information . The mobile device presents via a user interface of the mobile web page a call button associated with a callee of a communication device .

After the mobile device receives user input activating the call button in the user interface of the mobile web page running on the mobile device the mobile web page instructs the mobile device to call the connection server using the call in reference and transmits a message to the connection server to identify the communication reference and the callee of the communication device . In response to the message from the mobile web page the mobile device initiates a call from the connection server to the destination reference of the callee.

After the connection server receives a call the connection server determines whether the received call is from the communication reference and if so the connection server associates the received call with the payment information and thus skips the IVR prompts for setting up payment for the call. The connection server joins the call received from the mobile device with the call placed to the destination reference of the callee to provide a connection and processes payment to the callee for services provided by the callee over the connection using the payment information .

If the received call is not from a communication reference pre associated with payment information e.g. the connection server provides a prompt to identify the payment information .

In the connection server receives a call from a first communication device e.g. mobile device and determines an identity of a caller of the first communication device e.g. mobile device based on information used in establishing the call e.g. caller ID ANI VoIP handshake etc. . The connection server customizes interactive voice response IVR prompts to the caller based on the identity of the caller e.g. selecting a language for voice prompts skipping account setup prompts etc. . After connecting the call to a second communication device e.g. of a callee to provide a connection between the caller and the callee the connection server processes payments from the caller to the callee for services rendered by the callee using the connection.

In during the installation of a mobile application downloaded from the connection server for installation on the mobile device the mobile application is customized for the mobile device to include the communication reference . Thus when the mobile application is used to request a communication connection the communication reference configured in the mobile application is used to identify the communication device of the user of the mobile application . The communication connection is connected to the user according to the communication reference .

In the mobile application is configured to store the communication reference . Alternatively an identifier uniquely associated with the communication reference in the database can be used to represent the communication reference in the mobile application .

In access to the mobile application is controlled via the credential such as username and password for improved security. The mobile application may communicate with the connection server via the data connection to verify the credential entered by the user to access the mobile application or be customized to verify the credential locally on the mobile device with the need to communicate with the connection server . After the credential is entered by the user the mobile application allows the user to use the mobile application to request communication connections until the user signs off or a predetermined idle time is reached.

The mobile application may provide a user interface similar to that illustrated in . When the call now button is selected the call may be initiated from the mobile device to the connection server using the call in reference or be initiated from the connection server to the mobile device using the communication reference .

For example when the call now button is selected the mobile application transmits a request to the connection server over the data connection . The request identifies the communication reference and an identifier of the callee associated with the call now button .

In one embodiment of a response to the request generated by the selection of the call now button the connection server calls the mobile device at the communication reference to establish the voice connection .

In another embodiment of a response to the request generated by the selection of the call now button the connection server provides a call in reference to the mobile application to cause the mobile application to request the mobile device to call the connection server using the call in reference . When a call from the mobile device having the communication reference is received in the connection server the call is identified to be from the communication reference and thus is associated with the request generated by the selection of the call now button for further connection to the callee s communication device .

The call in reference can be dynamically associated with the mobile device identified by the communication reference for improved security. For example the connection server has a plurality of call in references e.g. . When the call now button is activated or presented to the mobile device a particular call in reference is selected for the communication reference . The database stores data to associate the call in reference with the communication reference directly or indirectly via the account . During the time period the call in reference is associated with the communication reference and the call received from the mobile device is authenticated via matching both the call in reference used to call the connection server and the communication reference used to identify the mobile device for the call e.g. caller ID or ANI . If the pair of calling reference and called reference matches the pair of the communication reference and the call in reference linked in the database the call is accepted and authorized to use the account for payments associated with the call. Otherwise the call may be rejected or the caller is provided with an IVR prompt for authentication or setting up a new account.

The association of the call in reference with the communication reference can be limited to a predetermined period of time after the activation of the call now button . Since the call generated by the mobile application is expected in a short period of time the association can be set to expire in a short period of time e.g. less than a minute .

For example the mobile application may communicate with the connection server to associate a call in reference to the communication reference of the mobile device based on web activity before the activation of the call now button or in response to the activation of the call now button to allow the call generated from the call now button presented in the mobile application to be routed to the callee selected by the customer. The identification of the callee is based on the call in reference used to receive the call at the connections server and or the communication reference that identifies the originator of the call. Thus different customers calling the same call in reference can be connected to the respective callees selected by the respective users of the mobile applications e.g. .

The association of the call in reference with the communication reference to represent a valid combination for a call for call authentication can be implemented just in time in response to the activation of the call now button to reduce the time period to which a call in reference is allocated. The association is removed after a call from the communication reference to the call in reference is received and validated in the connection server . The association is set to expire after a predetermined period of time if the association is not removed in response to the matching call.

Different call in references e.g. can be dynamically allocated to a same mobile device e.g. at different times to improve account security e.g. to defeat Call ID spoofing based fraud . Thus a fraudulent device configured to appear to have the communication reference in making a call to a non matching call in reference e.g. other than of the connection server cannot pass the authentication validation that is based on the association of the particular call in reference and the communication reference .

In after the call received in the call in reference is authenticated and or validated based on the call in reference dynamically assigned to the mobile application in response to the activation of the call now button the call can be identified as a result of the activation of the call now button and further connected to the communication device identified by the call now button presented in the mobile application . Further the authenticated and or validated call can be identified as being funded by the account associated with the use of the mobile application if the use of the mobile application is authorized via the authentication performed based on the credential of the account e.g. after the user signs into the mobile application using the correct credential .

Since the funding account and the callee can be automatically determined by the connection server from the calling reference e.g. the communication reference of the mobile device and the called reference e.g. the call in reference of the incoming call using the above discussed systems and methods the connection server can be configured to skip IVR prompts related to the identification of the funding of the call and or the callee in connecting the call to the communication device of the callee.

The funding source of the call can be a stored value account a mobile wallet implemented on the mobile device or other payment methods. For example when a mobile wallet in the mobile device is used as a funding source of the call the connection server may communicate with the mobile application to charge the user of the mobile application for the services provided by the callee over the communication connection established via the connection server . For example the mobile application may monitor the communication duration of the service and charge the mobile wallet for the service based on the communication duration determined by the mobile application . Alternatively the connection server is configured to monitor the communication duration of the service provided over the connection and instruct the mobile application to charge the mobile wallet at the end of the connection. Alternatively the system may charge the mobile wallet for a predetermined increment for stored value in the account when the balance of the account is below a threshold and debit the stored value account for the services on the fly as the communication session of service over the connection progresses.

The mobile application may be configured to include payment information e.g. a credit card number a bank account etc. that can be used to pay for the services provided over the communication connection established via the mobile application .

The account and or the mobile application can be configured to established a customizable monthly spending budget. When the spending associated with the account and or the mobile application is approaching the monthly spending budget the mobile application is configured to provide a notification to the user on the mobile device . When the monthly spending budget is reached the mobile application is configured to disable the function for establishing connections via the connection server until the next month or the monthly spending budget is increased.

For example a smart IVR system of the connection server is configured to allow customized customer handling based on information known gathered about individual customers. Information about a customer can be gathered from previous customer interaction with the system. The system may adapt to individual customers. For example return customers could be identified and handled differently from new customers. Certain customers could be fast tracked. Certain preliminary steps requirements etc. that would be presented to new customers could be automatically circumvented for return customers. For example account setup verification features may be skipped for certain return customers. A customer sticky feature could adapt to previous customer interaction and automatically route the customer to persons services of interest based on the previous customer interaction. For example all IVR prompts can be skipped if the customer is known and no ambiguity about adviser selected e.g. based on past calling pattern etc. such that the call is connected by the connection server to the communication device of the callee as if the call were made directly to the communication device without the caller being aware that the call is received at the connection server and further connected to the communication device via a separate call.

For example a mobile web page or a mobile application allows the user to sign in using the credential such as username and password to identify the caller before the call is placed to the call in reference of the connection server . The association among the call in reference the communication reference and the callee can be stored in a call history log. If a subsequent call is made from the mobile device to the call in reference e.g. within a predetermined time period of the previous call the connection server can identify the call as being intended for the callee based on the association among the call in reference the communication reference and the callee in the call history log. Thus the call can be associated with the account and the callee without presenting IVR prompts to identify the payment information and or the callee. When the probability of the call being for the callee is above a threshold the call can be connected to the communication device without the presentation of any IVR prompts.

The probability can be determined based on the time separation between the current call and the previous call that resulted in the association among the call in reference the communication reference and the callee. The probability can be further determined based on the calling pattern of the caller associated with the call in reference such as the timing of the call during the day week and or months the locations from which the calls are made etc.

The association among the call in reference the communication reference and the callee may be established via the mobile web page or the mobile application . For example prior to or in response to the user clicking the call now button the payment information and or the account of the user can be identified e.g. via a sign in process via the credential of the account an account setup user interface or a user interface to receive the payment information . Subsequently the call in reference is associated with the communication reference and the callee. Subsequently when a call is initiated from the mobile device to the call in reference of the connection server e.g. automatically dialed by the mobile application or the mobile web page manually dialed by the user or via a re dialing function of the mobile device the connection server can automatically recognized the received call as being for the callee and funded by the account or the respective payment information . Thus the connection server can connect the call to the communication device without playing IVR prompts.

If the probability of the call being directed to the previous callee is lower than a threshold the connection server is configured to present the IVR prompts to request confirmation of the callee.

If the probability of the call being authorized to use the account or the previous payment information for payment is lower than a threshold the connection server is configured to present the IVR prompts to request authorization for the use of the account and or the previous payment information.

The IVR prompts may be provided in languages customized based on the locations of the callers. For example when the call now button is activated to request a connection the location of the mobile device can be transmitted to the connection server with the request. The location of the mobile device can be used to identify a prevailing language used in the geographical area containing the location. The initial IVR prompts can be presented using the prevailing language.

Alternatively the location of the call may be determined based on the communication reference and or information about the telecommunication carrier that routed the call to the connection server .

In after a connection server receives a call from a mobile device a voice connection is established between the connection server and the mobile device . Interactive voice response IVR prompts can be provided over the voice connection to further process the call such as identification of the caller and or a funding source of the call identification of the callee preferences of the caller for being connected to the callee etc.

In the connection server determines whether there is data associating with the communication reference of the mobile device in anticipation of calls from the mobile device .

For example prior to the call the user of the mobile device may interact with the mobile web page illustrated in or the mobile application illustrated in to provide information relevant for the subsequent calls. The interactions may include signing in the account providing the payment information selecting a language preference identifying an area of requested services identifying a callee providing the services etc.

In one embodiment the interactions cause the mobile web page or the mobile application to transmit one or more messages to the connection server over the data connection . For example the parameters identified via the interactions may be transmitted to the connection server via a message sent in response to the user activation of the call button .

In one embodiment the connection server is configured to store in the database the parameters that are received via the one or more messages. The parameters are stored in association with the communication reference of the mobile device in anticipation of a subsequent call from the mobile device . The stored parameters are set to expire within a pre determined period of time for improved security and accuracy for application with future calls.

In if the connection server determines that such data exists the connection server is configured to identify the caller and the callee based on the data stored in the database in association with the communication reference .

In if the connection server determines that such data does not exist the connection server is configured to identify the caller and the callee based on past calls from the mobile device .

For example the user of the mobile device may use the re dial function of the mobile device to call the call in reference of the connection server that was previously provided to call a service provider.

For example the user of the mobile device may initiate the call to the call in reference after the expiration of a time period for associating previously saved parameters with the communication reference for anticipating calls.

For example the user of the mobile device may initiate the call to the call in reference without using the call button .

The past calls from the mobile device may indicate a pattern of calls from the mobile device which can be used to identify the caller and or the callee. For example when the time of the day of the current call is consistent with a pattern of prior calls of a caller the current call can be determined to be from the same caller.

For example when the time of the day of the current call is consistent with a pattern of prior calls of a callee the current call can be determined to be for the same callee.

In one embodiment when the past calls indicate that the likelihood of the current caller callee being the same as the previous caller callee is above a threshold the current caller callee is determined to be the same as the previous caller callee.

If the connection server determines that the caller is identified the connection server skips the IVR prompts configured for identifying the caller otherwise the connection server provides the IVR prompts to register and or authenticate the caller.

For example the caller indicates that an account has been previously established for the caller the IVR prompts may request the caller to provide information matching the credential of the account otherwise the caller may be prompted to establish a new account.

If the language preference is already provided in the temporary data stored in anticipation of the call the IVR prompts customized in accordance with the language preference. Otherwise the language preference used in the past calls from the mobile device may be used to customize the IVR prompts. The IVR prompts may further provide options to the user to change the language preference.

In if the connection server determines that the caller has payment information on file the connection server is configured to skip IVR prompts relates to requesting and or confirming the payment information otherwise the connection server provides IVR prompts to request payment information from the caller.

In if the connection server determines that the callee has been identified e.g. based on the temporary data stored in anticipation of the call or the pattern in the past calls the connection server is configured to skip IVR prompts for identifying the callee otherwise the connection server provides over the voice connection the IVR prompts to identify the callee.

For example the caller may have identified via the mobile web page or the mobile application the area of services requested but not a particular callee.

After the identification of the caller the callee and the payment information the connection server connects the call to the communication device of the callee allowing the callee to provide the services to the caller via the voice connection initially established between the mobile device and the connection server .

Using the payment information the connection server charges the caller on behalf of the callee for the services provided by the callee.

In one embodiment after receiving the call from the mobile device the connection server is configured to identify a data entry having one or more parameters of previous calls based on matching one or more corresponding parameters of the current call. The data entry may be established based on user interaction in a previous call connected from the caller to the callee.

For example the caller may select a language preference in the previous call and the language preference identified in the previous call of the caller can be used to customize the IVR prompts provided in the current call.

In some embodiments the data entry is temporarily established shortly before the call in anticipation of the call and in response to a data communication over the data connection from a user interface presented on the mobile device such as the mobile web page or the mobile application . The data entry is set to expire within a predetermined time period or after the first call received from the mobile device after the storing of the data entry.

In one embodiment the data entry is used to identify the callee. For example the data entry may associate the one or more parameters of the previous calls with the callee. Through matching the current call with the previous calls the callee is identified. When it is determined that the probability of the current call being directed to the callee is above a threshold the connection server may skip interactive voice response IVR prompts related to the identification of callee. For example the probability of the current call being directed to a particular callee can be determined based at least in part on a call history of the mobile device identified by the communication reference . The call history may indicate whether or not the mobile device has been used by more than one caller whether the timing of the current call agrees with the pattern of the calls made by any of the known users of the mobile device .

In one embodiment the data entry is used to identify the payment information for settling the cost of the current call. For example the data entry may associate the one or more parameters of the previous calls with the payment information . Through matching the current call with the previous calls the payment information may be identified for settling the cost for the current call. For example when it is determined that a probability of the current call being authorized to use the payment account is above a threshold the connection server may skip interactive voice response IVR prompts related to identification of payment methods. For example the probability of the current call being authorized to the payment information associated with the communication reference of the mobile device can be determined based at least in part on a call history of the mobile device identified by the communication reference . The call history may indicate whether or not the mobile device has been used more than one payment method to settle costs for calls initiated on the mobile device whether the timing of the current call agrees with the pattern of the calls that are paid for by any of the known payment methods associated with the communication reference of the mobile device .

In one embodiment when the temporary data stored in association with the communication reference of the mobile device and stored in anticipation of the call can be used to identify the caller as a returning customer and the callee is determined for the receiving of the current call without ambiguity the connection server may skip all interactive voice prompts before connecting the call to the callee.

Similarly when the patterns of past calls can be used to identify the caller and the callee without ambiguity the connection server may skip all interactive voice prompts before connecting the call to the callee.

In one embodiment the connection server is configured to determine a location of the caller based on the receiving of the current call and determine at least one parameter for processing the current call based on the location.

For example the connection server may identify a language preference based on the location and customize the interactive voice response prompts accordance with the language preference.

For example the connection server may use the location and time of the call e.g. the time of the day the day of the week or month to match with patterns in the past calls in determining the identity of the caller the identity of the callee whether or which of the payment information associated with the communication reference is likely to be authorized for use with the current call.

In one embodiment the connection server is a computing device having at least one microprocessor and memory storing instructions configured to instruct the at least one microprocessor to perform operations discussed above such as receiving a current call from a mobile device of a caller determining the identities of the caller and a callee customizing interactive voice response prompts presented to the caller during the call based at least in part on at least one previous call of the caller connecting the current call to the callee to provide a communication connection between the caller and the callee charging on behalf of the callee the caller for services provided by the callee over the communication connection etc.

In one embodiment the connection server is configured to match one or more parameters of the current call with one or more respective parameters of previous calls to determine the caller and the callee from the previous calls.

From this description it will be appreciated that certain aspects are embodied in the user devices certain aspects are embodied in the server systems and certain aspects are embodied in a system as a whole. Embodiments disclosed can be implemented using hardware programs of instruction or combinations of hardware and programs of instructions.

In general routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

While some embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others.

The instructions may be embodied in digital and analog communication links for electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. However propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. are not tangible machine readable medium and are not configured to store instructions.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

In general a machine readable medium is non transitory and includes any mechanism that stores transmits and or provides information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

Aspects disclosed may be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

In this description various functions and operations are described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code by a processor such as a microprocessor.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the disclosure the term advertisement may refer to various different forms of presentations to attract attention or patronage. An advertisement may be simply a listing of identity and contact information e.g. in a web page a print media a telephonic listing service etc. or a passage including one or more statements about business offering etc. or a banner with graphical content and or animation embedded in a web page or a voice message presented in a voice channel e.g. radio broadcasting a voice portal with Interactive Voice Response IVR which may accept user input through voice recognition or through keypad input generated Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF signals or others.

Although the disclosure has been provided with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be evident that the various modification and changes can be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit as set forth in the claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than in a restrictive sense.

