---

title: Electronically conductive perovskite-based oxide nanoparticles and films for optical sensing applications
abstract: The disclosure relates to a method of detecting a change in a chemical composition by contacting a electronically conducting perovskite-based metal oxide material with a monitored stream, illuminating the electronically conducting perovskite-based metal oxide with incident light, collecting exiting light, monitoring an optical signal based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light, and detecting a shift in the optical signal. The electronically conducting perovskite-based metal oxide has a perovskite-based crystal structure and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S/cm, where parameters are specified at the gas stream temperature. The electronically conducting perovskite-based metal oxide has an empirical formula ABO, where A is at least a first element at the A-site, B is at least a second element at the B-site, and where 0.8<x<1.2, 0.8<y<1.2. Exemplary electronically conducting perovskite-based oxides include but are not limited to LaSrCoO, LaSrMnO, LaCrO, LaNiO, LaSrMnCrO, SrFeO, SrVO, La-doped SrTiO, Nb-doped SrTiO, and SrTiO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09019502&OS=09019502&RS=09019502
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09019502
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140718
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

This patent application claims priority from nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 135 691 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 836 945 filed Dec. 20 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

One or more embodiments relates to a method of detecting a change in a chemical composition by contacting an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material with a gas stream illuminating the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material and detecting a shift in the optical signal. The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has a perovskite based crystal structure and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm specified at the temperature of the gas stream to be monitored.

Improved sensors are needed that can operate in harsh environments for the next generation of technologies for higher efficiency lower emission fossil fueled power plants including oxy fuel combustion processes for carbon capture and sequestration and coal gasification to produce syngas which can be converted to electrical power using solid oxide fuel cells or gas turbines. Improved harsh environment sensors and controls would also enable significant gains in energy efficiency for the existing fleet of coal fired power plants and a number of major domestic manufacturing industries. In particular chemical sensors capable of operating at elevated temperatures in highly reducing oxidizing and or corrosive environments can be leveraged across a broad range of applications including coal gasification combustion turbines solid oxide fuel cells and advanced boiler systems.

Optical sensors are of increasing interest for a wide range of embedded sensing applications due to a number of inherent advantages as compared to other sensor technologies including the ability to monitor several different optical properties of a selected sensing material transmission reflection luminescence . While there is a large body of existing work on electrical responses of semiconducting materials for applications in chemi resistive based gas sensing corresponding optical responses are not as well understood thereby providing very limited guidance for their applications in optical based gas sensing. Material systems with useful optical responses specifically tailored for the application of interest are therefore required.

Metal oxides such as WOhave been utilized as optical sensors for Hwhile other metal oxides such as NiO and CoOhave been explored for optical sensing of reducing gases such as CO. However these materials suffer from limited temperature stability in highly reducing conditions and typical dynamic ranges of measured output signals based on absorbance or reflectance have limited their practical use in a gas sensing instrument. See e.g. Ando Recent advances in optochemical sensors for the detection of H O O CO COand HO in air 25 10 2006 see also Korotcenkov Metal oxides for solid state gas sensors What determines our choice 139 2007 . Incorporation of noble metals such as gold nanoparticles into these metal oxides has generally been employed to enable responses that are suitable for practical gas sensing. See e.g. Schleunitz et al. Optical gas sensitivity of a metal oxide multilayer system with gold nano clusters 127 2007 see also Gaspera et al. CO optical sensing properties of nanocrystalline ZnO Au films Effect of doping with transition metal ions 161 2012 see also Gaspera et al. Enhanced optical and electrical gas sensing response of sol gel based NiO Au and ZnO Au nanostructured thin films 164 2012 and see Ando et al. Combined effects of small gold particles on the optical gas sensing by transition metal oxide films 36 1997 . In other cases metal oxides such as ZnO with various dopants have been utilized and absorbance changes have been noted for gases such as ammonia methanol and ethanol however the mechanism has generally been attributed to the adsorption of oxygen molecules at the metal oxide surface and the dopant was utilized to enhance catalytic activity and correspondingly measurement temperatures have been limited to below about 100 C. The time constants for the measured responses also tend to be prohibitively long such that they are not practical for a gas sensing device. See e.g. Renganathan et al. Gas sensing properties of a clad modified fiber optic sensor with Ce Li and Al doped nanocrystalline zinc oxides 156 2011 . Dopants such as CuO have also been employed with metal oxides such as ZrOin order to provide sensing through reversible red ox reactions however such approaches can suffer from instability under high temperature and or high reducing agent concentrations. See e.g. Remmel et al. Investigation on nanocrystalline copper doped zirconia thin films for optical sensing of carbon monoxide at high temperature 160 2011 .

Weak dynamic range of optical responses of high temperature stable metal oxides to changing gas atmospheres has generally required investigators to amplify the response by applying them to optical fibers with fiber bragg gratings. For example low electronic conductivity perovskite based oxides such as terbium doped strontium cerate have been integrated with long period fiber gratings and have demonstrated useful and selective responses to Hat elevated temperatures. By periodically modifying the refractive index of the core of the optical fiber the interaction with a sensing layer can be enhanced by orders of magnitude. See e.g. Tang et al. Acidic ZSM 5 zeolite coated long period fiber grating for optical sensing of ammonia 21 2011 see also Jiang et al. Multilayer fiber optic sensors for in situ gas monitoring in harsh environments 177 2013 see also Wei et al Terbium doped strontium cerate enabled long period fiber gratings for high temperature sensing of hydrogen 152 2011 see also Remmel et al. Investigation on nanocrystalline copper doped zirconia thin films for optical sensing of carbon monoxide at high temperature 160 2011 see also Tang et al. Proton Conducting Nanocrystalline Ceramics for High Temperature Hydrogen Sensing 48 2014 . However fiber bragg gratings typically exhibit an inherent temperature instability above 500 C. regardless of the sensing layer employed and dramatically increase device cost and complexity.

It would be advantageous to utilize a method that employs a class of metal oxides with relatively large and gas sensitive optical absorption across a broad wavelength spectrum to maximize compatibility with the broadest possible range of optical sensor devices. Two primary wavelength ranges of interest for designing optical sensor devices include the visible range 400 700 nm and the near infrared telecommunications wavelength range 1500 1600 nm for which a broad array of optical components sources and devices are commercially available and relatively inexpensive. It would be further advantageous if the class of materials provided adequate optical signal response to changes in chemical compositions to mitigate the need for utilization of advanced sensor designs such as fiber bragg gratings or for incorporation of noble metals such as gold platinum and silver. It would be particularly advantageous if the method of improvement remained effective or even further improved at higher temperatures in order to avoid the low temperature limitations associated with alternate methodologies. It would be further advantageous if the increased response of the metal oxide material could be brought about by relatively well understood processes such as optimizing material chemistry doping optimization of deposition techniques and conditions and carefully selected elevated temperature pretreatments prior to deployment for chemical sensing applications. It would be further advantageous if the material response demonstrated reversibility under high temperature conditions of interest.

Presented here is a method of detecting changes in the chemical composition of a gaseous stream by utilizing the optical response of an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material. The unique optical properties of the perovskite based oxides are well known to derive from their electronic band structure which is intimately linked to the underlying crystal structure. Perovskite based oxide materials with relatively high electronic conductivity such as LaSr CoO LaSrMnO LaCrO LaNiO LaSrMnCrO SrFeO SrVO La doped SrTiO Nb doped SrTiO and SrTiO have been observed to display a relatively large and broad band optical absorption across the entire wavelength range from the ultraviolet to the near infrared. Suitable optimization of high temperature stable electronically conducting perovskite based oxides for elevated temperature gas sensing applications can be achieved through 1 composition modification 2 doping 3 synthesis technique and details and 4 post synthesis pretreatments at elevated temperatures among others. The surprisingly effective method utilized within this disclosure provides a means whereby electronically conducting perovskite based metal oxides are employed to generate improved signals under gaseous atmospheres which experience varying concentrations of reducing and oxidizing agents. In contrast with electronically conductive perovskite based oxides the optical absorption of common semiconductor metal oxides employed in chemi resistive sensing applications such as ZnO TiO and SnOare typically limited to wavelengths below the so called band edge and are associated with interband electronic transitions that are not strongly sensitive to changes in ambient gas atmospheres thereby making them less advantageous for high temperature optical gas sensing applications despite a well known and well characterized response of the electrical resistivity of such conventional metal oxide systems.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The disclosure provides a method of detecting a change in a chemical composition of a gas stream through the generally described steps of i placing an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material comprising a conducting perovskite based oxide in the gas stream ii contacting the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material with a monitored stream comprising some portion of the gas stream iii illuminating the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material with incident light iv collecting exiting light transmitted reflected scattered or a combination thereof by the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material v monitoring an optical signal based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light using optical spectroscopy and vi detecting a shift in the optical signal thereby detecting the change in the chemical composition.

The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has an empirical formula ABOwhere A is at least a first element B is at least a second element and O is an oxygen anion and where the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has a perovskite based crystal structure and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the temperature of the gas stream to be sensed. Exemplary electronically conducting perovskite based oxides include but are not limited to LaSrCoO LaSrMnO LaCrO LaNiO LaSrMnCrO SrFeO SrVO La doped SrTiO Nb doped SrTiO and SrTiO. In some embodiments the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide is a non stoichiometric metal oxide such as SrTiO in which a non stoichiometry is imparted through the details of the synthesis procedure resulting in an enhanced electronic conductivity and associated optical absorption as compared to corresponding stoichiometric perovskite oxides such as SrTiO.

The optical response of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide materials results from the electronic charge carriers and defects that are also responsible for the relatively high electronic conductivity and the resulting impact of changing gas atmospheres on the population of defects and electronic charge carriers as well as their mobility. These changes are postulated to be the predominant mechanism responsible for the change in measured optical absorption as a result of changing ambient gas atmospheres. This surprising discovery is utilized to provide a means whereby electronically conducting perovskite based oxides having relatively high electronic conductivity can be employed to generate useful signals indicating alterations in a surrounding gas atmosphere based on resulting shifts in the optical signal.

In certain embodiments the monitored stream has a temperature of at least 200 C. In a further embodiment the monitored stream has a temperature of at least 200 C. and the change in the chemical composition is indicated by an increase or decrease in a signal averaged optical signal of at least 0.1 . The optical response of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is additionally demonstrated to be monotonic relative to the concentration of a reducing or oxidizing gas. In an embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is utilized in a method for monitoring the concentration of a chemical species.

The same effects that are thought to be responsible for modifications to the optical absorption of electronically conducting perovskite based oxide materials will also impact the degree of light scattering by the material. Light scattering is well known to be related to the degree of surface or interface roughness in the case of fairly dense and continuous thin films and particle size in the case of nanoparticle based films. In addition the amount of light scattering is dependent upon the wavelength of interrogation and the optical constants of the conducting oxide material. In particular surface roughnesses of continuous films greater than approximately 5 nm 10 nm or 50 nm can cause a significant degree of light scattering in the UV visible and near IR wavelength ranges with increasing surface roughnesses causing increased light scattering. Similarly particle sizes of nanoparticle based films greater than approximately 10 nm 20 nm or 50 nm in diameter can also cause a significant degree of light scattering in the UV visible and near IR wavelength ranges. In general increasing surface roughnesses and particle sizes tend to cause increased light scattering at a given wavelength. In some cases enhanced scattering can result in larger optical signal shifts and even change the sign of the shift over certain wavelength ranges.

In the case of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide materials discussed here the electrical resistivity of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is generally believed to be strongly related to the corresponding optical properties. As such the useful optical responses that can be obtained in this class of materials can enable sensors that allow for gas composition to be monitored through both electrical and optical interrogation methods. The method disclosed here employs optical interrogation methods but it should be understood that in some embodiments the electronic e.g. resistivity properties of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide may also be monitored simultaneously.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a method for detecting a change in the chemical composition of a gas stream using the optical response of an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material.

The disclosure provides a method for sensing changes to a chemical composition of a gas stream by utilizing a shift in the optical signal generated by an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material having a relatively high electronic conductivity. This disclosure utilizes the surprising impact of changes to the concentration and mobility of electronic charge carriers and defects that are also responsible for the relatively high electronic conductivity on the optical signals generated and specifies a manner in which the optical signal of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material may serve as an indication of changing gas atmospheres. The impact of alterations to these various parameters of a material on resulting optical signals generated within a gaseous atmosphere at relatively large levels is a surprising recognition. See U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 135 691 filed Dec. 20 2013 by Ohodnicki et al. see also Ohodnicki et al. Plasmonic Transparent Conducting Metal Oxide Nanoparticles and Nanoparticle Films for Optical Sensing Applications 2013 doi 10.1016 j.tsf.2013.04.145. In the case of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide materials disclosed here the conductivity is generally believed to be strongly related to the corresponding optical properties through equivalent or similar phenomena. The origin of the observed optical absorption features in the electronically conducting perovskite based oxides can be attributed to a number of different physical mechanisms which include 1 excitation of itinerant free carriers 2 hopping of localized electronic charge carriers or polarons 3 interband electronic transitions 4 charge transfer reactions between cations or between cations and anions and 5 electronic transitions associated with additional defect or impurity levels. See e.g. Apgar et al. Enhanced Photoelectrochemical Activity in All Oxide Heterojunction Devices based on Correlated Metallic Oxides 25 2013 see also Pellegrino et al. Doping of SrTiOthin films studied by spectroscopic ellipsometry 11 2001 . In this class of materials a number of parameters similar to those identified in aforementioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 135 691 are known to vary in response to changing atmospheric conditions at elevated temperatures. In LaSrCoOsystems for example electronic conductivity was suggested to be associated with itinerant free electrons and the free electron concentration and the oxidation state of Co atoms were reported to vary with effective oxygen partial pressure. In corresponding LaSrFeOsystems the electronic conductivity mechanism has been suggested to be associated with hopping type conductivity of localized charge carriers and involves a change in oxidation state of Fe atoms which can also vary with effective oxygen partial pressure. See e.g. Petrov et al. Oxygen Nonstoichiometry of LaSrCoO 0

This disclosure provides a method by which this surprising effect may be utilized in order to measurably detect alterations in a surrounding gas atmosphere by utilizing electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material with sufficiently high electronic conductivity such that the altered optical signal is measurably impacted. Due to the relatively large optical signal shifts that can be derived in this class of high electronic conductivity perovskite based oxides the need for advanced sensor devices is mitigated thereby avoiding their inherent limitations including temperature stability cost complexity and others.

The basic principles of the method are illustrated at . At light from light source is directed along an optical fiber and focused by lens producing incident light illuminating electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material . Concurrently exiting light is collected behind the specimen using a probe connected to a spectrophotometer . Data generated by spectrophotometer or supporting equipment is processed and an optical signal is displayed. The optical signal is a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light and indicates the absorption transmission reflection and scattering of the incident light at certain wavelengths by electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material . Electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material is additionally in contact with a gas stream G where gas stream G is comprised of a chemical composition of gaseous constituents with concentrations that may vary over time. In an embodiment gas stream G is periodically comprised of reducing species such as H CO NH hydrocarbons or mixtures thereof. As discussed electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material comprises an electronically conductive perovskite based oxide having a perovskite based crystal structure and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature. In an embodiment the electronically conductive perovskite based oxide is a perovskite based oxide such as LaSrCoO LaSrMnO LaCrO LaNiO LaSrMnCrO SrFeO SrVO La doped SrTiO Nb doped SrTiO SrTiO and others. Incident light exiting light and electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material generate an optical signal which depends on the chemical composition of monitored stream G and shifts in the optical signal at monitored wavelengths are indicative of a change in the chemical composition.

An additional embodiment of the method involves the interrogation of the electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material by using an optical waveguide based device such as an optical fiber as illustrated at . An exemplary embodiment involves coating the core of an optical fiber with an electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material that is in contact with the gas stream of interest. Interrogation light is launched into the waveguide based device penetrates into the electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material to probe the optical properties of the layer and is eventually collected by a detector. In this embodiment the conductive perovskite based oxide material is illuminated by a wave propagating along a waveguide such as a fiber optic cable. At the waveguide is comprised of a core material in contact with a cladding material where core material has a refractive index greater than cladding material . For example core material and cladding material may be comprised of silica and various additions such as germanium titanium phosphorous boron fluorine or other dopants in order to alter the respective refractive indices and meet the necessary criteria. At light source emits light into core material generating wave and penetrating cladding material and conductive perovskite based oxide material having the properties disclosed is placed in contact with core material . Some portion of wave provides incident light such that conductive perovskite based oxide material is illuminated by evanescent wave as illustrated. Conductive perovskite based oxide material is additionally in contact with monitored stream G comprised of gaseous constituents. Exiting light is collected by probe . Interaction of conductive perovskite based oxide material with monitored stream G and illumination by incident light enables detecting a change in the chemical composition of monitored stream G by detecting a shift in the optical signal as earlier described. As is understood the optical power and penetration depth of the evanescent wave into cladding material and conductive perovskite based oxide material can be described by Beer Lambert law. See e.g. Dickinson et al. Convergent Self Encoded Bead Sensor Arrays in the design of an Artificial Nose 71 1999 among others. Additionally the optical power coupled into the evanescent field may be improved by various methods such as bending optimizing the relative refractive indices of the core and cladding use of hollow fibers and other methods. See e.g. Elosua et al. Volatile Organic Compound Optical Fiber Sensors A Review 6 2006 among others.

Generally the magnitude of the optical signal response produced by the conductive perovskite based oxide materials disclosed here allows configurations such as without necessary recourse to mechanisms such as long period fiber bragg gratings within core material and the refractive index of core material may be relatively homogenous in the region between incident light and exiting light . In a particular embodiment the homogeneity of core material is such that the refractive index of core material is within 10refractive index units of some constant value where the constant value is expressed in refractive index units.

The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material comprises an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide where the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm where the conductivity is measured at the gas stream temperature. The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide exhibits a perovskite based crystal structure having an empirical formula ABO where A is at least a first element at the A site B is at least a second element at the B site and O is an oxygen anion coordinated with both A and B. Additionally 0.8

Further in an embodiment A is at least a first element A and a second element A and the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has the empirical formula A A BO where A and A occupy the A site of the perovskite based crystal structure. In a further embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has the empirical formula AB B O where B and B occupy the B site of the perovskite based crystal structure. In a further embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has the empirical formula A A B B O where A A B and B are as earlier defined. Exemplary electronically conducting perovskite based oxides include but are not limited to LaSrCoO LaSrMnO LaCrO LaNiO LaSrMnCrO SrFeO SrVO La doped SrTiO Nb doped SrTiO and SrTiO. In an additional embodiment the A A B and B are metals within groups 2 15. In another embodiment the B or B element is the same element as A or A but with a different oxidation state. In another embodiment the oxygen atom is partially substituted with another anion such as F or Cl. In a further embodiment A and B comprise less than 15 weight percent wt. of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide such that within the A A B B O formulation a b x y 3 

Evidence of the perovskite based crystal structure may be obtained using any means known in the art. For example the perovskite based crystal structures may be recognized through x ray diffraction patterns such as those at . illustrates x ray diffraction patterns for LaSrCoO LaSrCoFeO LaSrMnO and LaSrMnO designed as LSCO LSCF LSM35 and LSM20 respectively. In all cases the observed peaks can be clearly indexed to the perovskite crystal structure.

As an illustration of the methodology represents exemplary optical signals expected for an electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material comprising LaSrMnOwhen the LaSrMnOelectronically conductive perovskite based oxide material is illuminated by incident light and exposed to a monitored stream at a gas stream temperature of approximately 700 C. As indicated the particular optical signals at represent the film transmission at several selected wavelengths where illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 1800 nm illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 2100 nm and illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 2500 nm. The chemical composition of the monitored stream is Nwith varying levels of H where the His illustrated at and and indicates Haccording to the Gas Composition axis. When the chemical composition of the monitored stream varies such that the monitored stream comprises a range from 1 H remainder N up to 4 H remainder N the optical signal is observed to exhibit a pronounced shift that depends upon the interrogation wavelength. For example as illustrated at optical signal produces a transmission Tgenerated when the monitored stream is Nwith an absence of H and illustrates a pronounced shift to a transmission Twhen the monitored stream is altered to 2 H background N. The shift in the optical signal at a single wavelength is observed to be monotonic with increasing levels of Hin a Nbackground over this range and the recovery time is observed to be sufficiently short for practical application as a sensor material. Additionally at the interrogation wavelength of about 1800 nm optical signal the optical signal is observed to shift in a positive direction with increasing Hby as much as 15 while the corresponding signal shift for an interrogation wavelength of about 2500 nm optical signal is in the negative direction by more than 25 . These signal shifts are extremely large for a sensor material that is monitored in a transmission geometry which is one of the significant advantages of this class of electronically conductive perovskite based oxide materials.

Additionally illustrates an overall shift in the optical signal for the LaSrMnOwhen exposed to a gas stream comprised of 4 H remainder N relative to a Nbaseline over a wide wavelength range from about 1000 nm to about 2600 nm and shows a particular subset of the wavelength range at which a reduced sensitivity is observed between 1900 2100 nm . Such wavelength dependent responses with wavelength regions of insensitivity are advantageous because they can be leveraged for use in multiple wavelength or broadband interrogation approaches to perform multi parameter monitoring. For example in some cases it has been demonstrated that information about both temperature and chemical composition of a gas stream can be derived by multi wavelength or broadband wavelength optical interrogation of functional sensor materials. See e.g. Ohodnicki et al. High Temperature Optical Sensing of Gas and Temperature Using Au Nanoparticle Incorporated Oxides 202 2014 see also Ohodnicki et al. Plasmonic nanocomposite thin film enabled fiber optic sensors for simultaneous gas and temperature sensing at extreme temperatures 5 2013 .

The significance of the electrical conductivity of the electronically conductive perovskite based oxides within this methodology may be illustrated with reference to . illustrates the conductivity of an electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material comprising SrTiOin response to a monitored stream of Nwith varying levels of H where the His illustrated at and indicating Haccording to the Hydrogen Content axis. As indicated at exposures of about 2 Hand 4 Hwith background N and respectively conductivity of the conductive perovskite based oxide SrTiOis generally around 10S cm with the conductivity increasing as the H2 increases at and . The significance of the increasing conductivity is recognized by comparison with which indicates an optical signal as a change in transmission of the conductive perovskite based oxide SrTiOwhen illuminated at 1800 nm and under the same varying levels of H illustrated at and . As comparison of illustrates increasing electrical conductivity levels have a significant impact on the shift in the optical signal generated as a result of Hexposure. For exposures of about 2 Hand 4 Hwith background N and respectively and corresponding to a conductivity generally around 10S cm the electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material comprising SrTiOprovides limited measurable response. In contrast as the Hincreases at and and conductivity correspondingly increases the response significantly improves. For example the impact of increasing conductivity is readily identified through comparison of the shift in the optical signal between Tand T experienced at a conductivity generally around 10S cm and comparison of the shift in the optical signal between Tand T experienced at a conductivity which exceeds 10S cm. These results demonstrate that in addition to optical signal shifts electrical signal shifts can also be monitored in this class of materials. The ability to perform both optical and electronic interrogation of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxides to monitor gas stream composition can potentially enable improved selectivity sensitivity or even multi parameter sensing using a single sensor element with advanced sensor designs.

The methodology thus provides a method of detecting a change in a chemical composition of a gas stream through the generally described steps of i contacting an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material with a gas stream where the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material comprises a electronically conducting perovskite based oxide having an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature ii illuminating the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material with incident light iii collecting exiting light transmitted reflected or a combination thereof by the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material iv monitoring an optical signal based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light using optical spectroscopy and v detecting a shift in the optical signal thereby detecting the change in the chemical composition.

Here optical signal means a comparison of light incident on the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material and light exiting the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material at one or more wavelengths using optical spectroscopy. The optical signal may be expressed as for example a transmittance at the one or more wavelengths an absorption at the one or more wavelengths or any other parameters which indicate the absorption transmission reflection or scattering impacts on the incident light as a result of interaction with the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material. As is understood optical spectroscopy based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light may indicate the absorption transmission reflection or scattering which occur as a result of interaction between the incident light and the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material. See e.g. Ingle James D. and Stanley R. Crouch Englewood Cliffs N.J. Prentice Hall 1988 see also Sole Jose 2005 see also Sarid Dror and Challener William 2010 among others.

Additionally a shift in the optical signal means a variation between a first optical signal and a second optical signal at one or more wavelengths where the first optical signal is generated at a first time and the second optical signal is generated at a second time and where both the first optical signal and the second optical signal are generated by illuminating the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material with the light source emitting the incident light collecting the exiting light and comparing the incident light and the exiting light using optical spectroscopy. The shift in the optical signal may be recognized by detecting a variation between optical signals at any monitored wavelength or by variations at multiple wavelengths over a band of wavelengths. For example the variation may be detected by monitoring a transmittance at a specific wavelength the specific wavelength of an optical signal edge within a specified wave length range the wavelength of an optical signal local maxima a variation in the optical signal breadth a variation in the optical signal amplitude a variation in the optical signal full width at half maximum FWHM or any other techniques which may serve to indicate a variation between the first optical signal and a second optical signal. In an embodiment the shift in the optical signal means a variation of at least 0.1 between a first time averaged optical signal and a second time averaged optical signal in either transmittance absorption or reflectance at a specific wavelength.

The shift in the optical signal as disclosed here is generally not constrained to a specific wavelength or band of wavelengths. As discussed the shift in optical signal may be a shift at one specific wavelength or may be a shift over a monitored band of wavelengths. For example the shift may occur at one or more wavelengths typically considered to be ultraviolet visible or infrared as those terms are used in the art.

Additionally within this disclosure the optical signal may be described as an optical signal edge. An optical signal edge when specified as present within a described wave length range means a specific wavelength where a specified percentage of the incident light is transmitted absorbed reflected or scattered through the temperature sensing material. For example at points and on traces and respectively indicating a transmission percentage of about 40 on the respective traces within a wavelength range from a to . Similarly a shift in the optical signal edge means a wavelength difference between a first wavelength and a second wavelength where the specified percentage of the incident light is transmitted absorbed reflected or scattered through the temperature sensing material at both the first wavelength and the second wavelength. For example at a shift in the optical signal edge which occurs at the specified percentage of about 40 at between the first wavelength and the second wavelength .

As discussed the method disclosed is based in part on the recognition that alterations to the concentration and mobility of electronic charge carriers and defects that are also responsible for the relatively high electronic conductivity of a material also impact the resulting optical signals generated and that electronically conducting perovskite based oxides are particularly effective for the measurable detection of alterations in a surrounding gas atmosphere. Correspondingly electronically conducting perovskite based oxides suitable for the method disclosed are described in terms of the perovskite based crystal structure and the physical parameters possessed by the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide such as an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm. As is understood in the art for a given metal oxide these physical parameters may be manipulated by various physical processes such as annealing treatments certain manners of deposition and other means. These parameters may also vary with the composition of the gas stream to be sensed at a fixed temperature. See e.g Pellegrino et al. Doping of SrTiOthin films studied by spectroscopic ellipsometry 11 2001 see also Chen et al. Influence of Hydrogen on Al doped ZnO Thin Films in the Process of Deposition and Annealing 10 3 2009 see also Ota et al. Fabrication of indium tin oxide films by dip coating process using ethanol solution of chlorides and surfactants 411 2002 see also Shigeno et al. Formation of indium tin oxide films by dip coating process using indium dipropionate monohydroxide 411 2002 among others. Correspondingly when this disclosure describes an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide where the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide exhibits a perovskite based crystal structure and has an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature this is not intended to limit the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide to those materials which display those parameters under all conditions and following all treatments. Rather the method disclosed herein is intended to apply specifically when an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide meets those conditions regardless of whether those parameters can be manipulated by other processes existing outside this disclosure.

In some embodiments the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide is a non stoichiometric electronically conducting perovskite based oxide having an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm and a perovskite based crystal structure where parameters are specified at the gas stream temperature. The electronic carrier concentration of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide is preferably at least 10 cm more preferably at least 10 cm and most preferably at least 10 cmThe electronic conductivity is preferably at least 10S cm more preferably at least 10S cm even more preferably at least 10S cm and most preferably at least 10S cm. The non stoichiometric oxide may be for example of anion vacancy type cation vacancy type anion interstitial type or cation interstitial type as those terms are used in the art. See e.g. R. Xu et al. 2011 among others. Here non stoichiometric oxide means a electronically conducting perovskite based oxide having the elemental composition ABO where A is at least a first element B is at least a second element and O is an oxygen anion and A B and O are not combined in a definite proportion. In an embodiment the non stoichiometric oxide has an elemental composition ABO where A is at least the first element B is at least the second element O is the oxygen anion and can be a positive or negative value with an absolute value greater than 0.001 preferably greater than 0.01.

In a particular embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature and the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide comprises a base oxide and a dopant where the base oxide is one of SrTiO SrFeO SrCoO SrRuO SrVO LaMnO LaCoO LaCrO LaFeO LaCoO and where the dopant is at least one of Al In Sn Zn Ti Ce Sc Ga Nb Sb Ta Ni Co Fe Mn Cr Si P F and Bf. In another embodiment the base oxide and the dopant has an electronic carrier concentration of at least 10 cm.

In an embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide has an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm where parameters are specified at the gas stream temperature following an elevated temperature reducing treatment. Here elevated temperature reducing treatment means a treatment whereby the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is contacted with a gaseous mixture having a composition of 4 vol. H balance N where the gaseous mixture is at a temperature of at least 100 C. and where the contact occurs for a period of at least one hour. Such elevated reducing temperature treatments are generally effective for n type electronically conducting perovskite based oxides. Alternatively in an embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide is a p type electronically conducting perovskite based oxide and the parameters are specified at the gas stream temperature following an elevated temperature oxidizing treatment. Here elevated temperature oxidizing treatment means a treatment whereby the conducting oxide material is contacted with a gaseous mixture having a composition of 20 vol. O balance N where the gaseous mixture is at a temperature of at least 100 C. and where the contact occurs for a period of at least one hour. The respective elevated temperature treatments may occur during the fabrication of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material or as a post fabrication annealing process. In these embodiments the phrases following an elevated temperature reducing treatment and following an elevated temperature oxidizing treatment is not intended to imply that the specific temperature treatments themselves are required as a limitation within the method of this disclosure. Rather the phrases are utilized herein merely as a specific means by which the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide materials of this disclosure may be identified.

The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material may be utilized for sensing the change in the chemical composition of the gas stream based on the impact of the chemical composition on the concentration and mobility of electronic charge carriers and defects that are also responsible for the relatively high electronic conductivity. Changes to the concentration and mobility of electronic charge carriers and defects directly impact the optical properties of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material which may be ascertained by monitoring optical transmission reflection scattering and absorption spectra of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material as ambient gas atmospheres are altered.

A fundamental origin of limitations of some metal oxides utilized for optical gas sensing applications arises from a calculated electronic band structure demonstrating a clear band gap Eg between the conduction and valence bands without the presence of significant defect levels or overlap in the vicinity of the Fermi level Energy 0 eV . As a result of the electronic band structure the optical absorbance of some metal oxides is relatively small and negligible in most practical cases for wavelengths greater than the wavelength corresponding to the energy associated with promotion of electrons from the valence to the conduction bands i.e. the band gap Eg . In contrast in some embodiments of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxides disclosed here a unique electronic bandstructure responsible for the high electronic conductivity also results in an associated large broad band optical absorption across the ultraviolet visible and near infrared wavelength range. For these inherently electronically conducting perovskites often referred to as highly correlated systems the unique electronic bandstructure responsible for the high electronic conductivity also results in contributions to the optical absorption spectrum that depend directly upon the oxidation state of the various cation elements. Such highly correlated perovskites generally fail to display a well defined band gap. See e.g. Apgar et al. 25 2013 among others. Correspondingly in certain embodiments the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is comprised of an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide having a band gap less than 1 eV. Such low or poorly defined band gap perovskites can be advantageous for the enablement of broadband optical absorptions.

The broadband optical absorption exhibited by exemplary electronically conducting perovskite based oxide films is illustrated at for a LaSrMnO LSM and for a LaSrCoFeO LSCF films. At transmission spectra reflection spectra and absorption spectra are illustrated for the LSM while at transmission spectra reflection spectra and absorption spectra are illustrated for the LSCF. The highlighted regions of the measured spectra indicate wavelength ranges for which a wide array of commercially available optical sources detectors and components can be readily acquired. In the visible range nominally 400 750 nm and indicated at and a wide array of light emitting diodes lasers and spectrometers are readily available. In the near infrared range typically employed for telecommunications applications nominally 1500 nm 1600 nm and indicated at and a number of sophisticated tools for optical sensor fabrication and interrogation exist and can be leveraged in advanced sensor design. As such the relatively broadband optical absorption of the electronically conductive perovskite based oxides enables sensor devices to be designed with enhanced functionality and or reduced overall cost and complexity by leveraging previously developed technologies techniques and optical components utilized in other major industries.

As an additional example represents exemplary optical signals expected for an electronically conductive perovskite based oxide material comprising LaSrCoFeOwhen the LaSrCoFeOelectronically conductive perovskite based oxide material is illuminated by incident light and exposed to a monitored stream at a gas stream temperature of approximately 700 C. At the particular optical signals represent the film transmission at several selected wavelengths where illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 1500 nm illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 2100 nm and illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 2500 nm. The chemical composition of the monitored stream is N2 with varying levels of H where the His illustrated at and and indicates Haccording to the Gas Composition axis. Similarly represents exemplary optical signals expected for the LaSrCoFeOwhen Ois included in the recovery atmosphere between exposures to H. At illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 1500 nm illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 2100 nm and illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of about 2500 nm. Varying levels of Hwith Nis illustrated at and with Haccording to the Gas Composition axis. Additionally the recovery atmosphere of about 5 Owith Nbackground is illustrated at and . Comparison of illustrates that the presence of Oin the recovery atmosphere between exposures to Hresults in significantly improved recovery times in some cases. Between the wavelength range of 2000 2400 nm a region of relative insensitivity of the optical signal to the changing composition of the gas stream also presents a potential opportunity for multi parameter monitoring through broadband or multi wavelength interrogation.

The electronically conductive perovskite based oxide materials disclosed additionally display time constants advantageous for a gas sensing device where here the time constant r represents the time it takes an optical signal s step response to reach about 63.2 of a final asymptotic value. For example at the time constant might be the time it takes optical signal to shift from Tto about 63.2 of a final value around T when the step input represented by is supplied. In a particular embodiment the time constant of the shift in the optical signal generated by the methodology disclosed is less than 15 minutes.

As a further example at two different sets of optical signal shifts for a LaSrMnOelectronically conductive perovskite based oxide material at a gas stream temperature of 500 C. are presented where illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of 350 nm and illustrates the optical signal at a wavelength of 650 nm Varying levels of Hwith Nare illustrated at and with Haccording to the Gas Composition axis. A 20 O background Ngas stream was applied over the time period generally denoted by . At both wavelengths an optical signal shift in the positive direction is observed with the relative response being as large as 100 for the 350 nm optical signal for gas streams with greater than 2 Hin a background of Nas compared to the H free gas streams consisting of Nor 20 Obalance N. In combination with the results illustrated at these additional results demonstrate the broadband nature of the measured optical responses of electronically conductive perovskite based oxide materials. The broadband optical signal shift response to varying chemical composition of a gas stream improves compatibility with a wide range of available sources detectors and components for increased functionality or reduced cost of optical sensor devices that employ electronically conductive perovskite based oxide materials.

As discussed the conductivity of the electrically conductive perovskite based oxide is at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature. As is understood electrical conductivities may be expected to increase with temperature for at least some of the conductive perovskite based oxides disclosed here. For example illustrates the increase in electrical conductivity for the electrically conductive perovskite based oxide SrTiOin a gas stream of Nas temperatures increase from about 500 C. to about 850 C. As a result of this relationship between electrical conductivity and temperature in some embodiments the gas stream has a temperature of at least 200 C.

As discussed the electronically conductive perovskite based oxide materials disclosed provide for relatively large signal shifts. In an embodiment the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is indicated by an increase or decrease in a signal averaged optical signal of at least 0.1 preferably at least 0.5 more preferably at least 1 and still more preferably at least 5 . Here the signal averaged optical signal is generated through a signal processing technique applied in the time domain and the increase or decrease of 0.1 means that an observed signal averaged optical signal is at least 0.1 greater or lesser than an initial signal averaged optical signal. For example an increase or decrease of 0.1 in an observed signal averaged optical signal when the signal averaged optical signal is a transmittance or absorptance characterized as I Ior A I I Irespectively where Iis the intensity of the incident light and where I is the intensity of the exiting light at a wavelength and where intensity refers to a power transmitted per unit area. In an embodiment the signal averaged optical signal is a time averaged optical signal based on an absorption transmission scattering or reflection generated using the conducting oxide material and averaged over some time interval t. Techniques for the generation of signal averaged optical signals are known in the art. See e.g. R. Lyons 3Ed. 2010 and see R. Northrup 2005 among others.

The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide may comprise the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material in conjunction with a combination of other materials however the primary response observed monitored and discussed herein is the response of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide to the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream. In an embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is a mixture of compounds and the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide comprises at least 25 wt. and preferably 50 wt. of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material. In another embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is characterized by less than 1 wt. less than 0.1 wt. or undetectable noble metal deposits. Here a noble metal deposit means a deposit in contact with the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material where one or more noble metals comprise at least 90 wt. of the noble metal deposit and where the noble metal deposit is not a cation or anion of the ABO electronically conducting perovskite based oxide and are not located at a special position of the ABO lattice structure. Noble metals within this context include gold silver platinum palladium ruthenium rhodium osmium and iridium. In a further embodiment the conducting oxide material comprises less than 1 wt. less than 0.1 wt. or undetectable gold silver or palladium.

Without being bound by theory the optical response of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide materials achieved within this disclosure is believed to result from the high electronic conductivity of the metal oxide comprising the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material and a resulting impact of changing gas atmospheres on the concentration and mobility of electronic charge carriers and defects responsible for the relatively high electronic conductivity. It is known that certain metal oxides such as TiO ZnO and SnOexhibit changes in electrical resistance as a function of temperature and or in response to changing gas atmospheres which is usually associated with a change in the free carrier density and mobility of the oxide. Additionally for electronically conducting perovskite based oxides such as LaSrMnO LaSrCoO and LaSrCoFeO a dependence of electrical resistance defect concentration and carrier concentration and mobility on ambient atmospheric conditions at high temperatures is also expected. See e.g. Petrov et al. Oxygen Nonstoichiornetry of LaSrCoO 0

In an embodiment the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an increased concentration of a reducing gas. Here reducing gas means a gaseous constituent that alters the defect and electronic charge carrier concentration and mobility of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide comprising the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material as a result of contact between the gaseous constituent and the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide. For example when the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide is an n type oxide the reducing gas might be expected to increase the electronic conductivity and electronic charge carrier concentration. Exemplary reducing gases include H CO ammonia H and hydrocarbons e.g. fuel gases such as methane ethane among others. In another embodiment the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an increased concentration of an oxidizing gas where oxidizing gas means a gaseous constituent altering the electronic conductivity and carrier concentration of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide comprising the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material as a result of contact between the gaseous constituent and the metal oxide. For example when the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide is an n type oxide the oxidizing gas might be expected to decrease the electronic conductivity and the electronic charge carrier concentration. Exemplary oxidizing gases include O O NOx SOx halogens e.g. F l r and I halogen compounds sulfuric acids HO HSO and HO nitric acid and nitrate compounds among others. The impact of a reducing or oxidizing gas on the electronic conductivity electronic charge carrier concentration and mobility of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide may be determined by any means known in the art such as Hall effect measurement. See e.g. Ramsden Edward 2nd Ed. 2006 among others.

The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material may be in the form of dispersed nanoparticles an aggregate nanoparticle film or a largely dense and continuous film. When the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is in the form of dispersed nanoparticles or an aggregate nanoparticle film this means that a plurality of particles comprise the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material and that some portion of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide comprising the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material comprises each particle in the plurality. In an embodiment the plurality of nanoparticles has a Sauter mean diameter of less than 100 micron. The Sauter mean diameter may be determined by means known in the art. See e.g. Rhodes Martin 2ed. 2008 . Additionally when the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is in the form of dispersed nanoparticles this means that the plurality of nanoparticles are sufficiently separated such that the plurality of nanoparticles displays an electrical conductance of less than 1 10th of the electrical conductance of the metal oxide comprising the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material. Such a condition can be determined using various methods for the evaluation of proximity to a percolation limit in supported nanoparticle systems. See e.g. Trudeau et al. Competitive transport and percolation in disordered arrays of molecularly linked Au nanoparticles 117 2002 among others. Further when the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is in the form of an aggregate nanoparticle film this means the plurality of nanoparticles displays an electrical conductance of at least 1 10th of the electrical conductance of the metal oxide comprising the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material and that a given volume containing the plurality of nanoparticles has a void fraction of at least 20 . Void fraction may be determined using means known in the art. See e.g. Yancey et al. The influence of void space on antireflection coatings of silica nanoparticle self assembled films 99 2006 and associated references. When the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is in the form of a continuous film this means that a given volume containing the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material has a void fraction of less than 20 . Additionally it is understood that the nanoparticles of this disclosure are not limited to strictly spherical shapes and that a plurality of nanoparticles may take shapes such as triangular prisms disks shells wires rods and others.

The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material utilized in the method of this disclosure may be prepared using means known in the art for the production of dispersed nanoparticles aggregate nanoparticle film or a continuous film as disclosed herein. See e.g. Ohodnicki et al. Plasmonic Transparent Conducting Metal Oxide Nanoparticles and Nanoparticle Films for Optical Sensing Applications 2013 doi 10.1016 j.tsf.2013.04.145 among others.

At the monitored stream G is some portion of a gas stream. In an embodiment the gas stream and the monitored stream are separated by a barrier layer such as a dense filter layer to act as a diffusion barrier or a sieve material having an average pore size that is tailored to improve selectivity. Such an arrangement may be helpful when the gas stream is comprised of a molecular constituent which may need to be excluded from influencing the sensing operation. For example a sieve material may be utilized to exclude the molecular constituent from the monitored stream by selecting a sieve material having an average pore size less than the molecular diameter of the molecular constituent to be excluded. Exemplary sieves include aluminosilicate minerals clays porous glasses microporous charcoals zeolites active carbons or synthetic compounds which display a standardized average pore size such as pore size 3A pore size 4A etc. In a similar manner the dense filter layer can be selected such that the diffusion of a species to be excluded is relatively sluggish. For example exemplary filters might include films comprised of SnO SiO Palladium alloys and others materials known for the selective filtering of hydrogen in an operation where the conducting oxide material is utilized to detect changes in an Hconcentration. An appropriately defined barrier layer can also protect the underlying gas oxide sensing material from the presence of particulates and undesirable corrosive species that may have a deleterious effect on long term stability of the gas oxide sensing material. In an embodiment a first surface of the barrier material is contacted with the gas stream and the monitored stream is withdrawn from a second surface of the barrier material.

In another embodiment the monotonic response of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material displayed in response to increasing or decreasing concentrations of chemical species is utilized in a method of determining the concentration of a chemical species in a monitored stream. In this embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material comprises a sensing head in a sensing instrument where the sensing head communicates with an interrogator and a metered response is provided. The methodology is represented at where the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material of this disclosure comprises sensing head in contact with monitored stream G. Monitored stream G is comprised of a chemical composition of gaseous constituents with concentrations varying over time. Interrogator illuminates the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide comprising sensing head with incident light and gathers exiting light. Interrogator compares the incident light and the exiting light and generates a measurand where the measurand is proportional to a shift in the optical signal as defined herein. Such interrogators for use in optical systems are known the art. See e.g. Lee et al. Review of the present status of optical fiber sensors 9 2003 and associated references. Interrogator is in data communication with meter which provides an indication of the magnitude of the measurand generated and communicated by interrogator . The monotonic response of the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material to increasing or decreasing concentrations of a chemical species in monitored stream G allows the measurand generated by interrogator and interpreted for display by meter to provide an indication of the concentration of the chemical species present. In this embodiment the steps of illuminating the gas sensing oxide material collecting exiting light and monitoring an optical signal based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light is conducted by interrogator and detecting a shift in the optical signal is conducted through observation of meter . An indication of the concentration of the chemical species present in monitored stream G is provided by comparison of the observed meter reading and a reference meter reading where the reference meter reading results from a reference measurand generated under reference conditions for example when monitored stream G consists solely of the background N or some other condition.

Thus provided here is a method for detecting a change in the chemical composition of monitored stream which utilizes changes in the optical signal generated by an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material. The electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material comprises a metal oxide having a perovskite based crystal structure and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature. In an embodiment the metal oxide is an electronically conducting perovskite based oxide and A comprises at least a first element and a second element B comprises a third element and both A and B are bonded with the oxygen anion. Exemplary electronically conducting perovskite based oxides include but are not limited to LaSrCoO LaSrMnO LaCrO LaNiO LaSrMnCrO SrFeO SrVO La doped SrTiO Nb doped SrTiO and SrTiO. Changes in the chemical composition of a monitored stream in contact with the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material are detected based on a shift in the optical signal generated through comparison of incident and exiting light using optical spectroscopy. In a specific embodiment the electronically conducting perovskite based oxide material is illuminated by light propagating along a waveguide such as a fiber optic core material. The method is particularly useful for monitoring the chemical composition of gaseous streams at elevated temperatures.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

