---

title: Application trust-listing security service
abstract: Provided are techniques for controlling access to computing resources comprising generating a first fingerprint corresponding to a first executable file; storing the fingerprint in a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium; receiving a request to execute a second executable file on a computing system; generating a second fingerprint corresponding to the second executable file; determining whether or not the first fingerprint matches the second fingerprint; and, in response to determining that the first and second fingerprints match, executing the executable file on the computing system; and, in response to determining that the first and second fingerprints do not match, preventing the executable file from executing on the computing system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589130&OS=09589130&RS=09589130
owner: White Cloud Security, L.L.C.
number: 09589130
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140820
---
The present application claims the benefit of the filing date of a provisional application entitled A Cloud based Application Trust Listing Security Service that Prevents Unauthorized Programs From Running on Users Computer Systems and Devices Using a Social Media Network for Crowd Sourcing of Application Trust Ser. No. 61 868 047 filed Aug. 20 2013 assigned to the assignee of the present application and herein incorporated by reference.

The claimed subject matter relates generally to computing systems and more specifically to techniques for preventing untrusted or unauthorized applications from gaining access to protected information or misusing computing resources.

Today computing or processing systems are involved in almost every technical device produced. Processing systems may come in the form of for example laptops tablets iPads and desktops. In addition processors may be found in smart phones SCADA process control systems Point of Sale terminals kiosks ATMs Casino Gaming equipment medical equipment embedded systems network appliances cloud and data center servers and automated self driving cars. Unfortunately any processing system may be the target an unauthorized access attempt even systems with required security updates or without known security holes.

Hackers and other unauthorized computer and device users can run unknown unfrosted or unauthorized applications on computer systems and devices to gain access to protected information or misuse computing resources. Two current techniques for protecting computing systems and devices are white lists and black lists. A white list or whitelist is a list or register of applications that are being provided a particular privilege service mobility access or recognition. In other words applications or processes on a white list are accepted approved or recognized as being legitimate applications or processes. A blacklist or black list is a list or register of entities or people who for one reason or another are denied a particular privilege service mobility access or recognition.

Currently white lists are primarily based upon application or process names which may be spoofed upon signing certifications which can be forged using stolen signing certificate keys or upon cryptographic hashes or simple checksums. Blacklists are primarily based upon a signature which identifies a code sequence pattern the examination of file formats and code statistics on the frequency of interrupt vectors and code used or the absence of use or a behavioral profile of computer resource misuse determined with dynamic heuristics where programs execution is emulated in a closed environment.

Provided are techniques for preventing untrusted or unauthorized applications from gaining access to protected information or misusing computing resources. Techniques include 1 a cloud based application fingerprint database submission and subscription process 2 an HTTP or DNS protocol for application identification fingerprint queries 3 optional organization specific application control zones 4 zone based application control of dynamically connected mobile devices 5 IP Gap technology and 6 a trust listing endpoint management as a service technology to provide just in time application fingerprint verification to prevent unauthorized programs from running on users computer systems and devices. Protected endpoints check the fingerprints of programs and executable components that try to execute against a fingerprint database in the service to determine if that program or executable component is authorized to run on that endpoint at that time and optionally in a particular zone. Unauthorized programs are not allowed to execute. This protects users information and resources from unauthorized access and use.

A Trust listing s just in time verification does not require a scan of a system before protection can begin. In addition a crowd sourcing community may validate which programs and executable components can be trusted. Unsophisticated users using a social media community can choose to follow highly rated experts or groups of experts who provide trust listing signatures or fingerprints. The trust listing system does not require any highly complex trusted change technology. When applications are found to be vulnerable or malware they can then be disabled from execution with a single user button click. When followed experts or groups of experts are found to be untrustworthy their recommendations of trust can be disabled from execution with a single user button click.

Provided are techniques for controlling access to computing resources comprising generating a first fingerprint corresponding to a first executable file storing the fingerprint in a non transitory computer readable storage medium receiving a request to execute a second executable file on a computing system generating a second fingerprint corresponding to the second executable file determining whether or not the first fingerprint matches the second fingerprint and in response to determining that the first and second fingerprints match executing the executable file on the computing system and in response to determining that the first and second fingerprints do not match preventing the executable file from executing on the computing system.

This summary is not intended as a comprehensive description of the claimed subject matter but rather is intended to provide a brief overview of some of the functionality associated therewith. Other systems methods functionality features and advantages of the claimed subject matter will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description.

Although described with particular reference to a cloud computing environment the claimed subject matter can be implemented in any information technology IT system in which the protections of computers and computing resources is desirable. Is should also be noted that although described with reference to applications processes and dlls the claimed subject matter is also applicable to any executable logic. Those with skill in the computing arts will recognize that the disclosed embodiments have relevance to a wide variety of computing environments in addition to those described below. In addition the methods of the disclosed technology can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The hardware portion can be implemented using specialized logic the software portion can be stored in a memory and executed by a suitable instruction execution system such as a microprocessor personal computer PC or mainframe.

In the context of this document a memory or recording medium can be any means that contains stores communicates propagates or transports the program and or data for use by or in conjunction with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Memory and recording medium can be but are not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device. Memory and recording medium also includes but is not limited to for example the following a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory and a portable compact disk read only memory or another suitable medium upon which a program and or data may be stored.

As the Inventors herein have realized one problem with the use of a white list is that white lists or white listing services may include malware in their scan of a newly installed endpoint an endpoint typically being a connection point where a particular service may be accessed. In addition a white listing system may require complex and non bounded trusted change technologies to ensure that updated programs are able to run in the white listed environment. Further when a new end point is white listed if malware or unauthorized software is already installed the malware or unauthorized software may be mistakenly added to the white list and allowed to run. Administrators or users settings in policy that allow applications to execute on protected systems cannot be easily disabled because of the complexity of the policies they may be buried therein.

Although vendors typically update their white list when software manufacturers update applications this creates a labor intensive effort as software manufacturers use various different techniques to update their software sometime even changing the method on a single application from one version to the next. Further software manufacturers have been increasing the rate at which they update their applications. This creates an unbounded problem that white listing providers cannot solve with any known uniform and all encompassing technique.

The following is a list of individual components or elements that make up one embodiment of the claimed subject matter 

Turning now to the figures is a block diagram of a cloud computing architecture that may implement the disclosed technology. A computing system used as an example of a system that may be protected in accordance with the claimed subject matter includes a central processing unit CPU coupled to a monitor a keyboard and a pointing device or mouse which together facilitate human interaction with elements of cloud computing architecture and computing system . IT should be understood that a computing system may be configured in many different ways. For example rather than a keyboard and mouse computing system may have a touchscreen or may have no human interaction at all.

Also included in computing system and attached to CPU is a non transitory computer readable storage medium CRSM which may either be incorporated into computing system i.e. an internal device or attached externally to CPU by means of various commonly available connection devices such as but not limited to a universal serial bus USB port not shown . CRSM is illustrated storing logic associated with an End Point Driver EPD . In short EPD applies trust listing signatures to control application and process execution on computing system . EPD accesses a scalable trust listing management interface of WCS server in cloud computing environment to manage when and where applications can run. EPD is explained in more detail below in conjunction with . It should be noted that a typical computing system would include more elements but for the sake of simplicity only ones necessary to describe the claimed subject matter are shown.

Computing system is communicatively coupled to a cloud computing environment or simply the cloud . As should be familiar to those with skill in the relevant arts and as defined by Wikipedia cloud computing is the delivery of computing as a service rather than a product whereby shared resources software and information are provided to computers and other devices as a utility like the electricity grid over a network typically the Internet . Clouds can be classified as public private or hybrid. Also communicatively coupled to cloud is a mobile device which may for example a mobile computer a tablet computer or a telephone. Mobile device is merely used as an example of a device other than a computing system such as computing system that may employ the claimed subject matter for security. Although in this example computing system and cloud are communicatively coupled via the Internet not shown they could also be coupled through any number of communication mediums such as but not limited to a local area network LAN notshown direct wire and wireless connections. In the alternative Cloud Computing Environment might also be implemented as a cloud instance of standalone individual components via a single software appliance without the redundant resources found in a typical cloud environment deployment.

In this example aspects of the claimed subject matter are provided by a White Cloud Security WCS server a Fingerprint Database Service FDS and Third Party Trust Providers TPTPs . In addition aspects of the claimed subject matter may be provided in part by security professionals developers trust listing experts administrators and application or app vendors . FDS stores fingerprints of applications and processes and well as crowd sourcing community and social media information. The crowd sourcing of application identification fingerprints provides a high degree of information about the trust worthiness of running an application on a user s computer system or device. PTPs stores the application trust selections recommendations and information provided by security professionals developers trust listing experts administrators and app vendors . Although not illustrated WCS server would typically include a CPU and CRSM any might include a monitor keyboard and mouse.

It should be understood that throughout the specification the term signature is used interchangeably with the term fingerprint. While a signature e.g. on a check may be forged a fingerprint typically may not. In other words the terms signature and fingerprint are used as to describe a characteristic of a process or application that is determined by examining the process or application and which typically cannot be forged or spoofed.

The function of EPD WCS server FDS TPTPs and the roles played by parties such as parties and are explained in more detail below in conjunction with . Further it should be noted there are many possible cloud computing architecture configurations of which cloud computing architecture is only one simple example. For example FDS and TPTPs may be incorporated into WCS server .

I O module handles any communication FDS has with other components of FDS and architecture . Data module is a data repository for information including data that FDS requires during normal operation. Examples of the types of information stored in data module include client data application data social media data policy data and operating parameter .

Client data stores information relating to clients or users that take advantage of the service provided by FDS and the related elements. In addition the term clients may include experts and administrators that contribute to and manage the system respectively. In one model users may subscribe to the service and pay a set price for each application fingerprint query see . In an alternative model a subscription may be based upon a flat fee for a specified period of time. Information may also be stored on trust listing providers. For example when an expert is fund to have been untrustworthy they can be marked as untrusted with a single button click which automatically disallows all trust recommendations from any application trust they have provided. The basis for trust for those applications then falls on any other experts that are providing trust recommendations for them or upon the user s own application trust selections.

Application data stores the signatures or fingerprints of application and processes that have been approved for execution. In addition information corresponding to applications or process e.g. malware or vulnerable applications that should not be permitted to execute may also be stored. Fingerprints for applications and processes may be generated based upon a hash of the corresponding application or process. As should be familiar to those with skill in the relevant arts there are several hashing technologies that may produce a fingerprint signature such as but not limited to MD5 CRC32 SHA 1 SHA 256 SHA 512 and to file length element size . An application or process or executable component may be identified by its file length element size combined with one or more of the fingerprints from the hashes generated for that file. Combining the file length element size and one fingerprint hash helps avoid hash collisions. Combining multiple fingerprints e.g. SHA 1 SHA 256 and SHA 512 with the file length element size dramatically reduce to nearly zero the possibility of hash collisions which an attacker might attempt to use to misidentify their malware as a valid trusted application. Further each fingerprint may also be correlated with particular users computing systems and or zones to provide zone control which is described in more detail below. Signatures may be queried using protocols such as but not limited to HTTP and HTTPS or queried by FISs see and .

Social media data provides information relating to crowd sourced and expert provided information on the quality of applications fingerprints and fingerprint providers. Social media data enables experts to provide recommendations and provide security alerts and enables users to follow selected users for their contributed signatures application trust selections recommendations and security alerts. In addition social media data may provide information for the implementation of a security community ecosystem that pays signature recommendation and alert contributors.

Policy data stores information on administrative policies of FDS including but not limited to the actual implementation of payments and zone control. Operating parameters stores information on various administrative preferences that have been set including but not limited to the look and feel of GUI .

ZMS also referred to as a Fingerprint Identification Service FIS provides for organizational control of computers and devices. In other words provides application and process control i.e. control of where and when an application or process can run of dynamically connected computing devices such as but not limited to laptops notebooks and mobile devices. When user s computer systems and devices move onto an organization s protected zone a FIS provides a set of signature fingerprint policies that control which applications are allowed to run on the users system device and under what conditions they are allow to run. DHCP or other similar logon technologies direct the dynamically connected devices to use the FIS DNS based fingerprint Identification Service. Although illustrated as part of FDS ZMS may also be independent modules located in the corresponding computer devices and zones being controlled see . With multiple FISs Fingerprints may be provided as just in time trust query execution in real time using currently available DNS distributes data server model techniques.

EMP provides the ability to manage endpoints associated with FDS . Each endpoint s EPD connects to a specific FDS for management and application trust validation. AFCU provides for the collection and uploading of signatures or Fingerprints of new or modified applications and processes. As previously explained fingerprints may be provided by security professionals developers trust listing experts administrators and application or app vendors . Fingerprints may be collected by a variety of techniques including but not limited to crowd sourcing and tools associated with social media see and other cloud based submission and subscription processes. In addition to fingerprints app vendors and trusted developers not shown may simply provide executables in the form of applications processes or dynamically linked libraries DLLs which are then processed by AFCU to generate corresponding fingerprints see .

GUI component enables administrators and users of FDS to interact with and to define the desired functionality of FDS . For example GUI may provide manager parental control of application and process authorization typically by uploading and setting information into data module . Further GUI may provide access to security professionals developers trust listing experts . GUI may also provide a social media interface to rate applications signatures and experts allowing experts to be followed for their signatures application trust selections application recommendations and security alerts and allow users to submit signatures for identification and definition by the community and to pay signature contributors who collect and upload application signatures and provide application trust recommendations. In this manner users can choose which experts to trust and follow for signatures application trust selections application recommendations and security alerts. Elements and are described in more detail below in conjunction with .

A FIS see ZMS and a corresponding cache provide zone control for cloud computing environment based upon a fingerprint block FB or a FB provided by FDS relayed via FIS cache or API respectively. Zone control may be applied for example to dynamically connected laptops notebooks and mobile devices in an organization s network. It should be noted that FBs and may be individual signatures sent by or API as needed i.e. just in time far verification of a particular application or process or a block of signatures transmitted periodically and stored in cache for FIS operations to be used as needed. In other words FISs may each store their own signature database that is periodically updated. FIS is illustrated as separated by an air or IP gap and serviced by a DNS zone transfer Xfer of fingerprint data. A FB is also transmitted to EPD for use in computing system . Additional FISs i.e. a FIS and a FIS provide zone control for other protected zones organizations or computing devices. Like FIS FIS includes a cache . In this example a potential application execution on computing system triggers a Request see from EPD to FDS which is responsible for transmitting as Go No GO decision to EPD see . FIS and the corresponding lines represent an alternative path for this exchange. see .

A White Cloud Java Script WCJS provides administrators with Profile Management PMGT via a management user interface Mgt. UI see GUI . In this manner an administrator or other user such as administrators may manage application fingerprint lists FLIST to be uploaded deleted or marked as malware an untrusted application or application to be denied execution. In addition PMGT as well as FISs and enables managers parents to control the authorization of applications in a secure cloud environment with automatic scaling to disable application execution see . PMGT also provides a sealable trust listing management interface to manage the conditions under which an application can run. PMGT enables user to disable application execution and may provide email notifications in the event an application needs approval to execute.

Process starts at a Begin Operate WCS block and proceeds immediately to a Configure WCS . During processing associated with block data necessary for the operation of process is retrieved see . Once process has been configured control proceeds to a Wait for Request block during which process waits for a request from an endpoint driver such as EPD on to whether or not to allow a particular application or process to execute on in this example computing system . A request may be transmitted in a number of ways including but not limited to HTTP HTTPS or DNS see . During an Evaluate Request block the request received during processing associated with block is evaluated. The evaluation typically involves matching the length and one or more hashes of the executable file to produce a fingerprint of the particular application or process and comparing the fingerprint to fingerprints stored in a database see associated with FDS . Trust selection information associated with fingerprints is also checked by FDS to provide a basis for a decision on whether or not an application is authorized see and a subsequent GO No GO decision see . Any specific fingerprint may be listed as acceptable not acceptable or simply not listed.

During processing associated with a Application App. Authorized block a determination is made as to whether or not the application is approved for execution i.e. listed or not approved i.e. not listed or specified as a non approved application or process. If the application or process is approved control proceeds to a Transmit GO block during which the approval is recorded in client data of FDS . During processing associated with block a signal is transmitted to EPD that the application may execute on computing system and the application or process is then allowed to do so.

If during processing associated with block a determination is made that the application or process is not approved control proceeds to a Transmit Application Fingerprint Condition AppFig. Con. block . During processing associated with block the fingerprint associated with the application or process that was not authorized is transmitted to EPD and to FDS for appropriate action and is recorded in client data of FDS . Such action may include but is not limited to reevaluating the application or process and listing the corresponding fingerprint on either a GO or NO GO list for transmission to appropriate EDPs and FISs. Once an application or process has been determined to be either malware vulnerable to attack or had its trust recommendations removed the application or process ma be marked accordingly in FDS and will no longer be allowed to run on an endpoint unless an administrator specifically allows that specific version of the application to run using his trust recommendation. This provides a facility to disallow an administrators trust override recommendations with the removal of trust from the administrator.

During processing associated with a Transmit NO GO block a signal is transmitted to EPD that the corresponding application or process should not be allowed to execute. Queries for fingerprints that do not result in known trusted fingerprints causes EPD to block the application s execution which protects the user from unauthorized access to their information or misuse of their computer resources.

During processing associated with a Policy Change block a determination is made as to whether or not the failure of the application to be approved necessitates a change in policy see . If so control proceeds to an Update Policy block . During processing associated with block the appropriate policy is updated in client data of FDS . Once policy has been updated or if during processing associated with block a determination is made that policy does not need to be updated control returns to Wait for Request block process waits for the next request and processing continues as described above.

Finally process is halted by means of a termination interrupt which passes control to an End Operate WCS block in which process is complete. Interrupt is typically generated when FDS or server is halted. During normal operation process continuously loops through the blocks and processing execution requests as they are received.

While the claimed subject matter has been shown and described with reference to particular embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing and other changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter including but not limited to additional less or modified elements and or additional less or modified blocks performed in the same or a different order.

By implementing the claimed subject matter users don t need to scan an endpoint to determine which applications should be added to a white list. Signatures or fingerprints in the trust listing database are used to determine if an application is authorized to run or not. Crowd sourcing of security engineers experts and groups of experts may provide trust listing application fingerprints. When a trust listing provider adds fingerprints for a new application to our trust listing database there is no need for a complex trusted change algorithm to update a white list on the endpoint. In addition trust listing providers may be motivated by receiving revenue on the usage of the application fingerprints that they provide to the system for usage in application trust selection and recommendations.

