---

title: Collaborative analytics for independently administered network domains
abstract: A method includes receiving a first analytics set performed on a first network security appliance operated internal to a first organization, receiving a second analytics set performed on a second network security appliance operated internal to a second organization, processing the first analytics set and the second analytics set, and responsive to the processing, disseminating to the second network security appliance information indicating that the second analytics set has also been performed on at least the first network security appliance, without revealing an identity of the first organization. In one embodiment at least part of the first analytics set or the second analytics set is hashed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467343&OS=09467343&RS=09467343
owner: EMC CORPORATION
number: 09467343
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140930
---
The present disclosure relates to information security and more specifically to collaborative security analysis of analytical data shared by members of a community.

Typical security analysis approaches rely heavily on structured messaging and manual processes that struggle to keep up with a changing threat landscape. The sooner an analyst understands the scope of a potential threat and or incident the more effective a given response can be. In today s threat environment it is clear that working collaboratively with peers in the security industry provides a stronger knowledge and defense against adversaries. In this context crowdsourcing a relatively recent addition to the technology lexicon refers to collaborative efforts of a community to solve common problems or address common issues. In the world of data security analytics crowdsourcing can have significant advantages. However concerns regarding revealing sensitive corporate information in such collaborative environments often preclude participation in such collaborative efforts.

In accordance with an one embodiment a method includes receiving a first analytics set performed on a first network security appliance operated internal to a first organization receiving a second analytics set performed on a second network security appliance operated internal to a second organization processing the first analytics set and the second analytics set and responsive to the processing disseminating to the second network security appliance information indicating that the second analytics set has also been performed on at least the first network security appliance without revealing an identity of the first organization. In one implementation at least part of the first analytics set or the second analytics set is hashed. An apparatus including a processor a network interface and memory storing logic instructions configured to perform the method is also described.

The present inventive concept is best described through certain embodiments thereof which are described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like features throughout. It is to be understood that the term invention when used herein is intended to connote the inventive concept underlying the embodiments described below and not merely the embodiments themselves. It is to be understood further that the general inventive concept is not limited to the illustrative embodiments described below and the following descriptions should be read in such light.

Additionally the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment of construction process design technique etc. designated herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other such embodiments

The figures described herein include schematic block diagrams illustrating various interoperating functional modules. Such diagrams are not intended to serve as electrical schematics and interconnections illustrated are intended to depict signal flow various interoperations between functional components and or processes and are not necessarily direct electrical connections between such components. Moreover the functionality illustrated and described via separate components need not be distributed as shown and the discrete blocks in the diagrams are not necessarily intended to depict discrete electrical components.

The techniques described herein are directed to sharing information without sharing underlying sensitive information on which shared information is based. Upon review of this disclosure and appreciation of the concepts disclosed herein the ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize other contexts in which the present inventive concept can be applied. The scope of the present invention is intended to encompass all such alternative implementations.

As those skilled in the art appreciate network security analytics appliances gather and maintain a wealth of valuable telemetry within one or more administrative network domains. This telemetry or more generally analytics or information is often mixed with personally identifiable information PII and other proprietary data that is preferably not exposed externally. Such other proprietary information might include but is not limited to e.g. internal Internet Protocol IP addresses server types web browsing habits trends email communicants etc.

Embodiments described herein enable network administrators who are members of a collaborative network security infrastructure to obtain insight into what their peers are experiencing when performing security analysis. This knowledge provides a powerful dimension of context that can be harnessed to speed resolution of network security incidents. As will be explained in more detail below and as an introduction to the instant description network security appliances can be configured to maintain audit logs of what administrators within a given administrative domain look at and analyze. For example an administrator might in connection with an analysis of a given communication session select a given IP address then click on a host then look at email etc. This user analytical telemetry can be a significant source of intelligence that can be the basis for helpful recommendations to the greater community of security analysts and administrators.

Exemplary collaborative analytics system comprises administrative network domains representatively referred to herein as administrative network domain s or simply network domain s in which respective member organizations of the collaborative community operate. As used herein an administrative network domain or network domain is a combination of computing and telecommunications resources that form and support an internal computer network generally with a corresponding border apparatus generally e.g. a firewall. A border as used herein is a network traffic demarcation separating each network domain from other computer networks to which they are connected. The border of a network domain may be defined by security policies established by an administrative authority within an organization.

Security policies may be enforced at border on the flow of network traffic between the internal network and the external networks. Security policies as used herein are constraint specifications established by an administrative authority within an organization.

As further shown in analytics appliances generally are also part of the respective network domains . In the depicted implementation each network domain is in communication with a larger wide area network which may be e.g. the Internet. A central cloud server is accessible to each of the analytics appliances via wide area network . As will be explained in more detail below a function of analytics appliance is to monitor computer network within each network domain and as appropriate supply central cloud server with information about network traffic metadata telemetry network security events or analysis detected by or performed by analytics appliance or a user thereof. Central cloud server is configured to thereafter process compare etc. the information received and provide feedback to respective analytics appliances for the ultimate benefit of users or administrators of those analytics appliances .

It is to be understood that while the embodiments described herein are directed to network security analysis on collected network traffic characterizing metadata the present invention is not so limited. Upon review of this disclosure those having skill in information analytics will recognize numerous analysis targets and collected telemetry for which the present invention can be embodied without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

As is evident from in collaborative analytics system may be implemented through a hub and spoke network topology having central cloud server as the hub to which network domains are connected through the spokes. In certain embodiments an appropriately authorized entity within each organization may establish a corresponding account on central cloud server .

Processor may be a general purpose processor microprocessor or the like capable of executing logic or software instructions stored in memory and or in any of the other modules depicted in . Memory may comprise read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media devices optical storage media devices flash memory devices electrical optical or other physical tangible e.g. non transitory memory storage devices. In general memory may comprise one or more tangible non transitory computer readable storage media e.g. a memory device encoded with logic e.g. software comprising computer executable instructions and when the software is executed by processor it is operable to perform the operations described herein.

As noted above analytics appliance is preferably configured to capture user interaction and network events and log each such interaction and event in e.g. memory . Events e.g. user interface selections mouse clicks etc. are preferably stored in the sequence detected. Log harvester is configured to obtain individual or combinations of logs stored in memory and provide the same to hashing engine which provides a hash of the user event sequence for use by central cloud server . More detail regarding this aspect of the present invention is provided below.

User interface may comprise a display keyboard and mouse not shown among other input output devices. User interface should also be considered to comprise any graphical user interface GUI presented to or displayed for a user or administrator. Network interface may comprise e.g. a network interface card having e.g. a unique media access control MAC address by which analytics appliance can communicate with central cloud server .

One system that may be employed as analytics appliance is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 176 169 entitled Method for Network Visualization and filed Apr. 29 2002 the 169 patent although the present invention is not limited to any particular network data visualization implementation. The disclosure of the 169 patent is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The 169 patent discloses a method of visualizing network data by parsing a collection of packets in accordance with a set of categories related to characteristics of the collection of packets the categories including listings of categorical elements wherein at least some of the categorical elements are selectable by a user. When a categorical element is selected by a user the collection of packets is filtered in accordance with the selected categorical element. That is an analytics appliance in accordance with the 169 patent enables a user or administrator to drill down into selected communications sessions by any number of categories including IP address communication type and host name among others.

Similar to analytics appliance in central cloud server processor may be a general purpose processor microprocessor or the like capable of executing logic or software instructions stored in memory and or in any of the other modules depicted in . Memory may comprise read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media devices optical storage media devices flash memory devices electrical optical or other physical tangible e.g. non transitory memory storage devices. In general memory may comprise one or more tangible non transitory computer readable storage media e.g. a memory device encoded with logic e.g. software comprising computer executable instructions and when the software is executed by processor it is operable to perform the operations described herein.

User interface may comprise a display keyboard and mouse not shown among other input output devices. User interface should also be considered to comprise any graphical user interface GUI presented to or displayed for a user or administrator of central cloud server . Network interface may comprise e.g. a network interface card having a unique media access control MAC address by which central cloud server can communicate with any one of the network domains and more specifically respective analytics appliances deployed in those network domains.

Ranking recommendation engine enables central cloud server to determine whether alerts notifications recommendation and the like should be disseminated to a second analytics appliance in response to information received in a hashed format from a first analytics appliance . That is central cloud server in accordance with embodiments described herein receives streams of information in at least a partially hashed format from a plurality of analytics appliances respectively monitoring network events and administrator usage. Ranking recommendation engine in central cloud server is configured to analyze the received streams or analytics or analytics sets and rank them in terms of e.g. severity importance or velocity among other criteria. Alerts notifications or recommendations may then be sent to other analytics appliances in view of the processing performed by ranking recommendation engine and or operations being performed on individual analytics appliances .

By clicking on or selecting the link bing search at in the user interface of the user interface of is generated. This user interface identifies which source IP addresses have accessed bing perhaps over a predetermined time period and presents them in the order of which IP addresses accessed bing the most to which IP addresses accessed bing the least as indicated by with the depicted parenthetical numbers indicating the number of times the respective IP address accessed bing.

Notably the actions of clicking on or selecting of various links within each user interface is recorded as logs by analytics appliance and as will be explained a hashed representation of the log is passed to central cloud server for further analysis and use.

For example the sequence of clicks within analytics appliance produces a breadcrumb trail i.e. a sequence of actions which represents and provides insight into what a given administrator s analysis sessions comprise by capturing what that administrator was researching. Selected information that might be considered suspicious e.g. IP address and domains is then be hashed and then supplied to central cloud server . Significantly even though certain information is hashed or hidden it is possible from the perspective of central cloud server to generate from that received data information for other users including e.g. how many other administrators investigated a particular domain or how many other administrators clicked a given value after entering a given search string. Central cloud server can also be configured to abstract to one level above such IP country or domain suffix.

With reference now to by capturing hashed versions of the analysis logs it is possible to aggregate the same at central cloud server and deduce that for instance 55 of administrators or users clicked on a given source IP address as indicated at . This is the type of information that can be gleaned from receipt of analytics information supplied to central cloud server from a plurality of analytics appliances . Although hashing has been described herein as a means for obfuscating information sent to central cloud server other obfuscating approaches may be employed. That is any one way function could provide the sort of protection that may desired. For example searchable or homomorphic encryption could also be employed depending on the application. Blinding in the cryptographic sense could also prove valuable.

Reference is now made to which depicts an exemplary process flowchart in accordance with the present inventive concept. At logs are harvested from memory of an analytics appliance that is configured to enable an administrator to monitor events that have transpired in a network. The administrator is able to drill down into a database of these events and resulting logs of the administrator s activities are harvested in this step. At the logs so harvested are organized into a search tree portions of which may be hashed. A Merkel tree is one possible implementation by which the logs may be organized in a search tree. Lead values for such a tree may be values representative of a user token and a time e.g. a time when a certain analysis session commenced. By including a user token ranking recommendation engine can base recommendations on e.g. the reputation of given users. By including time based values stale analytics sets can be purged over time from within central cloud server .

At the generated hashed tree is sent to a central location e.g. central cloud server . At the hashed trees received from a plurality of analytics appliances are processed e.g. compared with one another or otherwise analyzed. In light of the comparison and or other analysis at a recommendation or list of recommendations is generated. Such recommendation s may then at be sent to respective analytics appliances.

As an example suppose a first administrator operates a first analytics appliance in accordance with a first sequence of queries drill downs. This sequence of queries is then passed to central cloud server . Subsequently a second administrator operates a second analytics appliance in accordance with a second sequence of queries drill downs. Two scenarios are enabled by embodiments of the present invention.

In a first scenario even before second administrator begins his analytics session ranking recommendation engine may send the second administrator an alert or notification regarding the type of analysis or investigation the second administrator might want to undertake. Such a notification may be based for example on the reputation of the first administrator. That is if the first administrator is considered an expert in the field the second administrator can then benefit from such expertise. Whether a notification or alert is sent to the second administrator may be based on a ranking of the analytics performed by the first administrator in comparison to other administrators. That is among a plurality of analytics received from a plurality of analytics appliances perhaps only a subset thereof may be considered of sufficient quality or utility to disseminate to other administrators or users. Rankings may be based for example on historical successes of respective administrators in identifying security breaches or issues relevant to the community at large.

In a second scenario as the second administrator begins making selections analytics appliance may immediately communicate that input to central cloud server which may then immediately return a recommended subsequent selection. This could be implemented via a pop up window in user interface of analytics appliance . In another possible implementation when a user begins a session of analytics analytics appliance may be configured to invoke a representational state transfer REST call requesting the most common operation of the day e.g. source IP internal address domains etc. 

In sum a log collection system harvests logs on an analytics appliance machines. Click values from those logs are at least partially hashed and sent to a central server that will in turn analyze the data and return recommendations in the form of specific analyses to perform or more general recommendations. Users may also obtain additional information regarding a given recommendation. In this regard recommendations may contain a tag that will enable an administrator to obtain enhanced additional information upon request including possibly putting administrators directly in touch with one another.

Stated alternatively as an administrator or user uses analytics appliance an audit trail of his interests is recorded. Each such audit trail or click selection input may be transformed into a set profile. Profiles may include for example IP address pairs IP port pairs hostnames URLs etc. Profiles may be put through a cryptographic hash function to protect the data which is then transferred to a centralized analytics system in the cloud. The centralized analytics system performs analytics statistics and summarizations on the collection of hashes across the contributors and results of such processing are made available for query to the contributors. Notably the centralized analytics system never receives the actual profiles and is thus not privy to the underlying data likely considered sensitive by the contributors. As the administrator or user continues his analysis a small window or text alert may be displayed informing him that e.g. 40 other users saw the same communicants or based on metrics we recommend you click on IP 2.3.4.5 or the session you are looking at trended heavily last week would you like to contact affected parties The end result is the user benefits from crowd sourced analytics automatically without compromising his identity or data. Embodiments may also be configured to support an opportunity for 1 on 1 collaboration if warranted. In a preferred implementation the foregoing processing and recommendations are ongoing and occur in real time.

Thus the present inventive concept provides a method comprising receiving a first analytics set performed on a first network security appliance operated internal to a first organization receiving a second analytics set performed on a second network security appliance operated internal to a second organization processing the first analytics set and the second analytics set and responsive to the processing disseminating to the second network security appliance information indicating that the second analytics set has also been performed on at least the first network security appliance without revealing an identity of the first organization.

In one embodiment at least part of the first analytics set or the second analytics set is hashed. The first analytics set may comprise an indication of activity of a network administrator responsible for network security for the first organization. The activity of the network administrator may be presented as an audit trail.

In accordance with a possible implementation disseminating to the second network security appliance information indicating that the second analytics set has also been performed by at least the first network security appliance is performed without revealing an identity of the first organization and by sending an alert to the second network security appliance.

The method further includes receiving a message from the second network security appliance in response to the alert. In one embodiment the first analytics set and the second analytics set indicate at least one of an order in which an administrator performed individual operations of the analytics set or a velocity at which the administrator performed individual operations of the analytics set.

The method may still further include creating a recommendation for network administrators other than network administrators of the first organization and the second organization the recommendation being based on the first analytics set or the second analytics set. In one implementation creating the recommendation is based on a reputation of a network administrator who generated the first analytics set or the second analytics set.

The first analytics set and the second analytics set may be organized in a search tree such as a Merkel tree.

Certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept provide for the functional components to manufactured transported marketed and or sold as processor instructions encoded on non transitory computer readable media. The present general inventive concept when so embodied can be practiced regardless of the processing platform on which the processor instructions are executed and regardless of the manner by which the processor instructions are encoded on the computer readable medium.

The descriptions above are intended to illustrate possible implementations of the present inventive concept and are not restrictive. Many variations modifications and alternatives will become apparent to the skilled artisan upon review of this disclosure. For example components equivalent to those shown and described may be substituted therefore elements and methods individually described may be combined and elements described as discrete may be distributed across many components. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the description above but with reference to the appended claims along with their full range of equivalents.

