---

title: Context-aware gamification platform
abstract: An advanced context-aware platform is integrated with a variety of other applications to allow processing of contextual information from various sources. One type of application may provide spatial and temporal context information for various actions. Another type of application may provide additional information for an action within a social and/or business context. These contextual information types are received and assimilated by the platform in order to enrich the data value chain. Processing large volumes of data and events may be facilitated in a scalable and rapid manner utilizing technologies such as in-memory databases (e.g., the HANA database available from SAP AG), and/or complex event processing (CEP) such as is available from Sybase ESP. Context-aware platforms according to embodiments may find particular use in providing context to systems implementing gamification in an enterprise environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09630109&OS=09630109&RS=09630109
owner: SAP SE
number: 09630109
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140513
---
Unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Gamification is an evolving technique by which game mechanics are applied to non gaming applications in order to increase user engagement motivation and participation. This approach is especially promising in the enterprise domain since enterprise information systems EIS focus mainly on efficiency aspects rather than individual long term motivation and enjoyment. Prior research has shown that these latter variables lead to higher positive organizational outcomes e.g. job performance. Initial gamification attempts have been successfully implemented and show promise. However existing gamification platforms are typically designed for business to consumer B2C purposes require high integration effort and lead to silo based applications.

In addition conventional gamification platforms may not consider the context from which data is extracted or a particular destination of gamification data presented to the user or to other users. Therefore known platforms may relate to processing game mechanics in only one particular context e.g. a given enterprise application .

For example a conventional gamification platform might be used by an enterprise application to calculate points badges or leaderboards. However such a platform is not suited for use across multiple contexts and or applications.

Thus conventional gamification platforms may not allow users to share their state across various applications and contexts. Moreover conventional gamification platforms may not allow rules to be defined allowing transparent calculation of state across different platforms and connected information systems.

Also conventional systems do not provide for explicitly deriving and calculating higher level modalities. Furthermore in order to calculate holistic modalities e.g. trust reputation multiple gamification designs from across multiple contexts need to be consolidated.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for advanced context aware approaches to gamification to calculate and present modalities based on gamification data to users and or management.

An advanced context aware platform CAP is integrated with a variety of other applications in order to allow processing of contextual information. One type of application may provide spatial and temporal context information for various actions. Another type of application may provide additional information for an action within a social and or business context. These contextual information types are received and assimilated by the platform in order to enrich the data value chain. Processing large volumes of data and events may be facilitated in a scalable and prompt manner utilizing technologies such as in memory databases e.g. the HANA database available from SAP AG and or complex event processing CEP such as is available from Sybase ESP. Context aware platforms according to embodiments may find particular use in providing context to systems implementing gamification in the enterprise environment.

An embodiment of a computer implemented method comprises causing a context engine to collect data from a first source comprising a gamification platform regarding an action taken in an enterprise causing the context engine to collect context data from a second source and causing the context engine to process the data and the context data to create context enriched data. The context engine is caused to store the context enriched data in a database and the context engine is caused to provide the context enriched data in a view.

An embodiment of a non transitory computer readable storage medium embodies a computer program for performing a method comprising causing a context engine to collect data from a first source comprising a gamification platform regarding an action taken in an enterprise causing the context engine to collect context data from a second source and causing the context engine to process the data and the context data to create context enriched data. The context engine is caused to store the context enriched data in a database. The context engine is caused to provide the context enriched data in a view.

An embodiment of a computer system comprises one or more processors and a software program executable on said computer system and configured to cause a context engine to collect data from a first source comprising a gamification platform regarding an action taken in an enterprise cause the context engine to collect context data from a second source and cause the context engine to process the data and the context data to create context enriched data. The context engine is caused to store the context enriched data in a database. The context engine is caused to provide the context enriched data in a view.

Some embodiments further comprise causing the context engine to send the context enriched data to the gamification platform.

According to particular embodiments the second source comprises a social network a business process a tool or a communication system.

According to various embodiments the context engine processes the data and the context data according to a defined metric.

Disclosed embodiments relate to context aware platforms and methods to implement context aware systems. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous examples and specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure as defined by the claims may include some or all of the features in these examples alone or in combination with other features described below and may further include modifications and equivalents of the features and concepts described herein.

An advanced context aware platform is integrated with a variety of other applications to allow processing of contextual information. One type of application may provide spatial and temporal context information for various actions. Another type of application may provide additional information for an action within a social and or business context. These contextual information types are received and assimilated by the platform in order to enrich the data value chain. Processing large volumes of data and events may be facilitated in a scalable and prompt manner utilizing technologies such as in memory databases e.g. the HANA database available from SAP AG and or complex event processing CEP such as is available from Sybase ESP. Context aware platforms according to embodiments may find particular use in providing context to systems implementing gamification in the enterprise environment.

The context engine is configured to receive data from one or more sources. In certain embodiments this data may comprise information regarding an action taking place in an enterprise environment. In some embodiments this data may comprise gamification data relating to that action that is provided by gamification platform s details of some embodiments of which are described below in connection with . The context engine may be configured to store that data in a persistent manner for example in the database or a filesystem.

In certain embodiments the database may comprise an in memory database for example the HANA database available from SAP AG. Other examples of in memory databases can include but are not limited to the SYBASE IQ database also available from SAP AG the Microsoft Embedded SQL for C ESQL C database available from Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. and the Exalytics In Memory database available from Oracle Corp. of Redwood Shores Calif. The database may alternatively comprise a disk based database.

The context engine may also be configured to receive context data from one or more sources . As described in detail below such sources of context data may comprise sensors things devices or machines providing temporal and or geographical information regarding the action itself or of an actor acting with the system s that are data sources to the CAP or even other non related systems. As is also described in detail below other sources of context data may comprise social or business networks providing additional information regarding possible motivation or root cause for the action being taken.

The context engine may perform processing of the data and the context data received in order to produce context enriched data . In particular the context engine may be configured to collect and store the context enriched data in the database. The context engine may also be configured to perform tasks such as filtering aggregation and or correlation of data. Such filtering aggregation may be performed at multiple stages for example at the source during the enrichment with additional context or afterward. These techniques may be useful in the construction of views including the collected data as well as context enriched data derived therefrom.

The context engine may also be configured to define metrics and rules relating to the data. As discussed in detail below such metrics and rules may find particular use in the application of gamification principles to actions taking place within an enterprise. also discussed further below provides a simplified flow chart illustrating steps that may be performed by an engine of a context aware platform according to an embodiment.

In conventional approaches the gamification platforms are isolated resulting in data silos. That is there is no overall platform to judge what how the points from a gamified application e.g. XYZ represent in context of another gamified application for example an office application suite including word processing spreadsheets etc. e.g. Microsoft OFFICE Open Office for combinations of possible gamified applications within a single enterprise.

Furthermore different metrics via rules may be applied to those different GPs. That is the GP receives data available from the gamified application including user actions spatial data from devices if available and external events from third party systems etc. This can lead to difficulty in harmonizing integrating different GPs with each other.

Accordingly embodiments of the CAP as described herein may serve to federate consolidate multiple gamification platforms across multiple domains. The CAP receives data created in the various GPs which may include some form of context data.

It is noted that the CAP may receive data from sources other than GPs. For example an information system IS is one specific type of an external system might be used as source as well. In particular embodiments such an IS system may feature customized gamification feature s although this is not required for all embodiments.

It is noted that shows that all gamification platforms e.g. are used to gamify respective information systems. However for purposes of simplifying the drawing visualizes this aspect only for the XYZ information system i.e. and with the corresponding information systems for the other gamification platforms e.g. not shown.

Apart from the gamification data from the gamified information system the information system itself may provide the original data to the CAP as well. One of the other information systems not shown in e.g. the respective IS lying behind gamification platform or may also be sending events to the CAP .

The CAP may receive low level events and or raw data from source applications serving as external systems as well. Examples include but are not limited to the SAP Community Network SCN MICROSOFT OFFICE and device sensors. These are shown and described in detail in below.

The CAP then processes the data including context data as shown in the runtime procedure process flow of .

The CAP may calculate new metrics for modalities such as trust reputation influence popularity originality proximity influence presence. As described in connection with below those may be defined at design time.

The metrics can be propagated back as events into the gamification platforms for the individual applications or the information systems. There the modalities might be used to allow for improved gamification designs or enrich data with additional value.

As an example a user may only receive a particular badge in one particular gamification platform after having an overall trust score of 95 percent or the user earns additional moderation functionality in a forum after his reputation exceeds 95 in total. Another example would be that content created by users e.g. a blog or taken images would be rated with a high level of trust or originality based on the metric trust originality calculated in the CAP.

The CAP may furthermore be used to derive views either for the users themselves or for the managers of the gamified solutions. Multiple views may be possible on a context aware platform. These views may be provided by an analytics element. This analytics element may comprise Business Objects Explorer available from SAP AG or Lumira also available from SAP AG.

The content of such views may be limited based upon principles such as privacy e.g. the view provided to one user may not include private data of another user .

For example one view might be a gamification view i.e. a view reflecting gamification aspects of context consumed by the application user. A different view available from the context aware platform might be a plain location based view.

CAPs according to embodiments thus allow consolidating gamification designs across various domains and applications. Furthermore CAPs allow the definition of higher modalities such as trust reputation influence or popularity across various applications within the enterprise or a consumer space. Additionally modalities and gamification results can enrich data content from the original source e.g. information system with value and may enrich representation user interfaces and or interaction designs as well.

The architecture of the CAP and the GP can be relatively similar. However each may support different concepts in the database. That is the CAP and the GP may have different domain or meta models deployed.

In the advanced context aware platform is depicted in the middle. Context aware platform may be executed in a hosted and managed environment. As previously described the platform may include a context engine .

Context aware platform may be executed in a hosted and managed environment. As previously described the platform may include a context engine .

The platform may include other elements. One is a database here shown as the HANA in memory database available from SAP AG of Walldorf Germany although this is not required in all embodiments. Another element of the platform is a rule engine production rules which may have additional complex event processing CEP capabilities module .

The left hand side of shows certain examples of external systems of . One type of external system may comprise various machine sources and sensors of a machine to machine M2M stack that are integrated. These devices for example may comprise mobile devices determining a location of the user. Examples of sensors can include but are not limited to Radio Frequency Identification RFID sensors Global System for Mobile Communications GSM sensors velocity sensors WiFi sensors velocity sensors and others such as hygroscopic sensors.

In certain embodiments these sensors machines may be part of an Internet of Things IoT . This term generally refers to smart devices having their own network connection in order to provide information regarding status and operability. Such devices can comprise for example smart phones or wearables.

One level higher an external system in the form of a so called location based services LBS might be utilized on top of the rough sensor data. That is applications may be integrated that contribute additional knowledge to the spatial context of the user.

As indicated in the the sensing functionality of the left hand side of the diagram allows determining when and where aspects of context. Such information however may not provide knowledge regarding what a user did and or why such actions were taken.

Accordingly the right hand side of shows the context aware platform integrated with some nonlimiting examples of other applications that may provide such what or why context data. In particular embodiments these applications may comprise gamification platforms .

As shown in certain of these gamification platforms may be integrated with various social applications and tools . Examples of such social networks can include but are not limited to JIVE SDN TWITTER FACEBOOK SDN and others. is just one embodiment and others types of social applications and tools are possible.

Separately or in combination with such social and business applications the context aware platform may be integrated via a gamification platform with typical business applications realizing business processes or parts thereof. Examples of such business applications can include but are not limited to Customer Relationship Management CRM software and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP software.

Still other examples of external systems with which the platform may be integrated via a gamification system include office or developer tools . Examples of such tools may include but are not limited to MICROSOFT OFFICE IDEs Jira GIT and others.

According to embodiments advanced context aware platforms may be integrated with communication systems . Examples of such communication systems can include but are not limited to video conferencing technology telepresence technology email messenger applications and others.

By the integration of various such sources of contextual information user actions can be captured. For example if the user received a badge or additional experience points the CAP may calculate an increase in the trust of this user.

Furthermore the trust metric might be not only calculated based on a single event from one individual application but might be calculated based on events from multiple gamification platforms and their associated information systems. For example the CAP may have a rule deployed that increases the user s trust based on additional experience points received from one source e.g. a first gamification platform its associated information system or both and based upon badges received from a second source e.g. a second different gamification platform its associated information system or both .

Moreover the context aware platform may receive the location where these users posted their comments. Such user events may be processed by context aware platforms according to predefined rules.

As mentioned above in connection with multiple views may be possible on a context aware platform. These views may be provided by an analytics element .

Returning again to the left side of in conventional approaches an M2M stack focuses mainly on machine data and the respective communication. There the scope is monitoring analytics and processing of M2M data in order to retrieve status and abnormal behavior e.g. status of a machine to detect maintenance issues. Often the cause of certain events cannot be determined and additional information is necessary.

By contrast certain embodiments may accordingly provide for integration of the platform with business processes social networks tools communication tools and other sources in order to help determine missing information. The context aware platform allows the user to enrich the data value chain with additional context. This enrichment may be performed automatically semi automatically or manually.

It is further noted that with conventional M2M approaches context is basically generated from data provided by the device layer with data flow in a bottom up manner.

By contrast an advanced context aware platform according to embodiments could allow the flow of information in a variety of directions. This is depicted in which shows a spiral of context.

There context information is enriched with additional context on a continuing basis. Context information may come from the left and or right hand side of the in order to provide an ongoing update of context information.

A first step of the process flow is to access the context aware platform. This may be done for example using the context aware platform administration user interface UI .

A second step of the process flow of is to define modalities metrics . This step determines which modalities are measured which may include but are not limited to trust reputation influence popularity originality proximity influence and presence. This step may include a selection of data mining algorithm to calculate these modalities based on existing algorithms e.g. from social network analysis .

A next step is to define rules. This step may for example define the rules regarding how the final factors are calculated based on scores from data mining algorithms and gamification data.

A next step of the process flow of is to load the context engine. That is the defined rules are deployed into the context engine.

A next step is to synchronize harmonize users. This step involves synchronizing and optionally harmonizing or consolidating the users from the different solutions i.e. gamification platforms and information systems .

An optional final step is to synchronize data. Here existing gamification or domain data is loaded into the context aware platform and processing is commenced.

A first step is to receive an event. Such an event may be received either from a source information system e.g. user event spatial event external event or from the corresponding gamification platform e.g. gamification events .

A second step is to process store and forward events to the database and to the context engine. Pre conditions on incoming events e.g. schema coherence inconsistencies may be checked.

A third step is to provide events to the fact base of the context engine. Specifically validated events are stored into the rule engine of the context engine.

Alternatively step calls for running deployed data mining models inference algorithms on a context aware platform database to calculate scores. New scores are calculated in the context aware platform database based on deployed data mining models. Scores are forwarded and inserted as events into the rule engine of the context engine.

Step calls for executing deployed rules on the events whether the result of the step or the step . Step calls for triggering consequences based upon the execution of rules.

Step calls for updating the context aware platform database. As shown by the feedback loop to step such updating of the context in the database may cause a reevaluation of the newly available knowledge.

An example computer system is illustrated in . Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor including information and instructions for performing the techniques described above for example. This memory may also be used for storing variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Possible implementations of this memory may be but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or both. A storage device is also provided for storing information and instructions. Common forms of storage devices include for example a hard drive a magnetic disk an optical disk a CD ROM a DVD a flash memory a USB memory card or any other medium from which a computer can read. Storage device may include source code binary code or software files for performing the techniques above for example. Storage device and memory are both examples of computer readable mediums.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard and or mouse is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections from the user to processor . The combination of these components allows the user to communicate with the system. In some systems bus may be divided into multiple specialized buses.

Computer system also includes a network interface coupled with bus . Network interface may provide two way data communication between computer system and the local network . The network interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL or a modem to provide data communication connection over a telephone line for example. Another example of the network interface is a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links are another example. In any such implementation network interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Computer system can send and receive information including messages or other interface actions through the network interface across a local network an Intranet or the Internet . For a local network computer system may communicate with a plurality of other computer machines such as server . Accordingly computer system and server computer systems represented by server may form a cloud computing network which may be programmed with processes described herein. In the Internet example software components or services may reside on multiple different computer systems or servers across the network. The processes described above may be implemented on one or more servers for example. A server may transmit actions or messages from one component through Internet local network and network interface to a component on computer system . The software components and processes described above may be implemented on any computer system and send and or receive information across a network for example.

Returning back to the particular view shown in that figure depicts the context aware platform as being in communication with a variety of external systems one of which can be a gamification application. Certain details of such a gamification system are now described below in connection with .

Specifically a platform to gamify an enterprise includes a gamification platform and a message broker. Users in the enterprise may participate as players in the gamification platform. Enterprise information systems of the enterprise may communicate events to the message broker. Gamification rules may be expressed in terms of events and game context. The gamification platform may reason over events in accordance with the gamification rules and the current context of game play in order to trigger a proper consequence.

The gamification platform may comprise a rule management system RMS a rules mechanics component a rule engine an analytics component and a gamification repository . As will be explained in more detail below the RMS may receive gamification rules from a source external to the gamification system and manage the gamification rules on behalf of the gamification platform . The RMS may manage multiple sets of gamification rules for separate different versions of gamification rules administer incremental changes to the gamification rules and so on. In some embodiments different sets of gamification rules may be provided to emphasize or test different motivational or behavioral designs. An example of gamification rules is shown in the Appendix at the end the specification.

In accordance with principles of the present disclosure gamification rules will be understood to incorporate aspects of an enterprise that govern the management and operations of the enterprise. For example in addition to traditional notions of gaming rules gamification rules may include business rules and business processes which model and describe the behavior of the enterprise that is being gamified. Gamification rules may incorporate policies and procedures whether internally developed or externally imposed that govern various operations in the enterprise. Gamification rules may incorporate actual elements from the enterprise into the game such as physical facilities locations incentive programs and so on. By incorporating aspects of the enterprise into the game this way the gaming environment becomes a familiar landscape for players thus encouraging employees in the enterprise who may be reluctant to play or are uncomfortable with games to participate in the game.

The RMS may deploy the gamification rules into the rule engine . In some embodiments the RMS may inform the rule engine which set of gamification rules to use. In a particular embodiment for example a common shared location in a main memory or a common shared data storage location may be used to specify which gamification rules are in play. Accordingly if the RMS receives new gamification rules or changes to existing gamification rules the RMS may point the rule engine to the new changed gamification rules using the common shared data location. In some embodiments the RMS may manage gamification rules that reside on one or more remote storage systems separate from the gamification system . Accordingly the RMS may point the rule engine to any remote systems that contain all or portions of the gamification rules .

The rules mechanics component may provide various game mechanics for supporting game play. Game mechanics may include tools for creating artifacts in the game and the accompanying logic for how to interact with the artifacts. The game mechanics may provide an infrastructure for rewarding players with award points experience points etc. to mediate commerce e.g. provide a marketplace purchasing items bartering between players etc. to communicate among players and so on. The game mechanics infrastructure may allow for monitoring players in the game for example tracking player progress announcing achievements e.g. player X is winner of the month providing a leader board and so on. The game mechanics infrastructure may include functionality for monitoring events such as timers to time events and player actions location sensors to detect player movement and locations sensors to track game conditions e.g. a treasure chest is open and so on.

In some embodiments the rules mechanics component may support cooperative game play among players toward a common goal. The rules mechanics component may support competitive game play. Support may be provided for team formation where teams play toward a common goal or play against competing goals. The rules mechanics component may provide a communication platform for private communication among team members and communication between teams.

The analytics component may analyze player behavior in order to improve the gamification rules and optimize long term engagement. The analytics component may analyze historical data for example to compute player participation rates player visit rates and other such metrics. Player achievements performance statistics and other qualitative or quantitative game data may be computed. The analysis may be used to identify where the gamification rules may be improved to enhance motivational elements in the game increase player participation and so on. The analytics component may include data mining capability to conduct deeper analytics to identify trends patterns and so on as additional tools for improving the game design.

The gamification repository may be a persistent data store for storing runtime aspects of the gaming platform . The gamification repository may also store the game s environmental information such as maps game items game creatures and so on. The gamification repository may track players who are in the game their IDs alter ego information e.g. game name avatar etc. achievements current gamification state and the like. The gamification repository may store gamification state information and player state information to allow the gaming platform to operate in a stateful manner.

In some embodiments the gamification repository may provide an application programming interface API to provide computational access to the data stored in the gamification repository. For example the gamification repository may include a set of query APIs which may be used by other elements of the gamification platform to perform complex computations of gamification state based on updates made to low level gaming data. For example the rule engine may request the sum of a player s accumulated points which the rule engine may then use as an input when processing a rule. The rule engine may request such a computation from the gamification repository for example each time that a player accumulates a point. If the gamification repository responds with a result of 50 that may trigger the rule engine to award the player with a gold customer badge.

The gamification repository may include a set of update APIs to store progress events discussed below from the rule engine thus updating the gamification state. In some embodiments the update APIs may provide functionality to perform simple to complex consistency checking in order to ensure consistency of the data with respect to gamification semantics. For example a point earned by a player is not just any point but rather may be an experience point a redeemable point e.g. a form of currency karma points skill points reputation points and so on. Each kind of point has its own semantics. For example a player s experience points should increment when the player makes an achievement e.g. achieves the highest sales numbers for the month . The update APIs may check the data to ensure consistency of the data in the context of the gamification semantics before the data is persisted in the gamification repository .

The message broker provides an interface between the external enterprise information systems and the gamification platform . In accordance with principles of the present disclosure the message broker may operate asynchronously. More specifically the message broker may send messages to the enterprise information systems independently of receiving messages from the enterprise information systems. Similarly the message broker may send messages to the gamification platform independently of messages received from the gamification platform.

A UI framework may be provided to connect players to the gamification system for player interactions with the gamification platform . The UI framework is an integrative aspect of the entire gamification platform . For example basic functions such as communication with the message broker and processing of message events from to the gamification system may be provided to support the seamless capturing of events without additional implementation effort. The UI framework may provide basic gamification widgets such as turning the game on and off automatic connection to the gamification platform and so on. The UI framework may allow players to define their own widgets customize their avatars and modify other player related metadata. In some embodiments a third party may develop widgets and avatars for distribution to players.

The UI framework may be configured for integration into any given frontend or frontend technology including different computing platforms and operating systems. In addition to providing seamless integration of the target platform e.g. mobile device computer tablet etc. with a gamification backend the UI framework may provide easy to use and customizable gamification widgets e.g. profiles leader boards progress bars etc. for use on the target platform including configuration and adaptation when the configuration and gamification rules may change.

In some embodiments the UI framework may notify players using push technology so that players can be notified without the player having to poll the gamification system . The UI framework may be provided as a software development kit SDK for example for development on smart phones such as the iPhone smart phone an Android brand smartphone and the like. The UI framework may comprise development systems for desktop computers such as Adobe Flash Player the Microsoft Silverlight development tool the SAP Web Dynpro modeling tool and so on.

The gamification platform may include an administrative user interface to allow a system administrator to manage the gamification system . For example players may be added or deleted from the system. The gaming environment may be managed. For example elements that are relevant to the enterprise business and operations may be added to the gaming environment or otherwise managed e.g. changing sales thresholds for winning points adding new challenges and prizes and so on. The administrator may manage the gamification rules e.g. modify the gamification rules install new versions etc.

Referring now to a brief description of various enterprise information system architectures will be discussed. In accordance with principles of the present disclosure gamification system provides a generic platform to gamify enterprise information systems deployed in an enterprise. illustrates an enterprise information system that is based on an architecture generally referred to as a service oriented architecture SOA . An SOA configured enterprise information system typically comprises a network of autonomous and interoperable processes and services. The SOA enterprise information system illustrated in for example comprises a configuration of elements such as a sales process and an order process. The configuration may include an inquiry service and a quotation service to support the sales process. The sales process may interact with the order process to complete the sales transaction. A module may provide a business process management BPM model that orchestrates the interactions among the elements in the configuration . The module may also include frontend elements to facilitate access to the processes in the configuration e.g. a terminal UI a mobile device web based services based on the simple object access protocol SOAP web services description language WSDL etc. for Internet access and so on.

In accordance with the present disclosure everything that is relevant to game processing in the gamification platform may be represented by events relating to the enterprise information system s . For example if a user player u in the enterprise successfully completes a step x in a process p then an event e exists. The user may be a person but may also be an abstraction representing a group of users a department machinery etc. Following is a formal definition of events in accordance with some embodiments where E is the set of all enterprise events e. In accordance with the present disclosure an event may occur within the enterprise e.g. a sales person has reached a sales goal manufacturing output has reached a certain limit and so on. Events may occur outside of the enterprise but are otherwise related to the enterprise e.g. the number of customer complaints has exceeded some threshold the delivery of parts for manufacturing is consistently late and so on.

As explained above the RMS manages the gamification rules for the gamification platform and deploys or otherwise loads the gamification rules into rule engine for processing. A set of gamification rules R may comprise n rules r and may be formally represented by the following . Each rule rmay be formulated as an if then condition where

In accordance with principles of the present disclosure the grammar allows for gamification rules that can recognize and trigger a consequence based upon any kind of event and any pattern of events. The events may originate from the enterprise vis vis the enterprise information systems or from external sources. Events may be location specific spatial or time specific temporal . Gamification rules may be based on events that are defined based on where an action occurred spatial events or based on when an action occurred temporal event . Patterns of events may relate to events that occur at different points in time. For example a first event may set a trigger e.g. a user purchase a public transportation pass such as a bus pass . However the trigger may not result in a consequence e.g. user is awarded a point until a second event occurs such as when the user actually uses the public transportation pass. Patterns of events may relate to events that are location specific. For example a first event that occurs at location A may not result in a consequence until a second event occurs at location B.

In accordance with principles of the present disclosure the grammar further allows for gamification rules that can recognize and trigger a consequence based on patterns of events that are logically connected. Merely as an example a gamification rule may recognize the occurrence of event A and event B but not recognize only event A or only event B. The logic may incorporate temporal relationships. For example event A must be followed by event B within 10 days. The logic may incorporate a spatial relationship. For example the gamification rule may recognize the occurrence of event A at location A and the occurrence of event B at location B as a precondition for triggering a consequence.

In accordance with principles of the present disclosure the grammar further allows for gamification rules expressed in terms of patterns of events which incorporate the current state gamification state or context of the game and or the current state or context of a player or a group of players. For example a gamification rule may recognize the occurrence of an event A but only when a player is at a particular location or only when the player as 100 or more experience points. A gamification rule may recognize an event when all the players in a group have solved a puzzle or when more than five players have reached a given sales quota and so on. A gamification rule may use logical expressions to specify events in terms of time space and current gamification state of the game environment and players.

Continuing with the message broker may provide suitable APIs to facilitate integration with an enterprise information system. For example the message broker may provide message conversion routines to convert messages from the EDA architected enterprise information system to a format that is suitable for the gamification platform . In the case of the SOA architected enterprise information system the message broker may provide message generating routines that allow a developer of the SOA architected enterprise information system to generate suitable messages that they can send to the gamification platform .

In the case of legacy system a more full featured API may be provided to accommodate enterprise information systems of arbitrary design. The legacy system may be viewed as being one abstraction step higher than an EDA or SOA architected system because it is not likely that any assumptions can be made about its internal structure. For example the legacy system may not have adequate documentation or may have no documentation. The customer who has a legacy system may be reluctant to allow inspection of the system software for fear of breaking the system the system may not be easily probed and so on. Nonetheless in some embodiments aspect oriented modules may be provided which are weaved into bytecode within a virtual machine which can capture events from the legacy system without touching it.

In some embodiments the enterprise information systems may provide suitable frontends with processing capabilities to interface with the message broker . For example the frontend of an enterprise information system may include a web services interface for each of the processes sales process order process etc. comprising the enterprise information system. The web services interface may send event messages into the message broker as event occur. In other embodiments the frontend may be a mobile device that connects a player to the enterprise information system as well as the message broker .

As mentioned above the UI framework may connect players to the gamification system for player interactions with the gamification platform . The UI framework may comprise communication API s that the frontend can use to communicate with the message broker so that the player may receive events from the gamification system and conversely so that the player can issue gamification relevant actions into the gamification system e.g. the player has clicked on button X marked a text as bold accessed the solution after 10 pm for the third time and so on.

In accordance with the present disclosure the API provided by the message broker may include other supporting functionality. For example the API may provide data model transformation and data format transformation in addition to the protocol transformations described above. Other functionality may include anonymizing certain sensitive data filtering personal data mediation with services provided by the enterprise information system providing security measures controlling the distribution of event messages and so on. The message broker may incorporate best practices policies human resource policies and other relevant governing policies of the enterprise into its logic to properly handle event messages.

As shown in in some embodiments arbitrary external events may be captured by the message broker and provided to the gamification platform . In the case of external events however APIs may be provided to allow external actors to capture the external events and communicate them to the message broker . For example a source of an external event may be in a customer s system a news portal etc.

In addition to receiving event messages from the message broker the gamification platform may send progress event messages into the message broker. Processing of the gamification rules by the rule engine may trigger one or more such progress event messages. For example if a player achieves some predefined goal e.g. reaches a sales quota the player may be rewarded with experience points a badge virtual currency etc. The rule engine may generate a progress event message to record such an event. More generally the rule engine may generate progress event messages to indicate any change in the gamification state as game play progresses. Progress event messages may be stored in the gamification repository to update the gamification state.

Progress event messages may be sent to one or more frontends for example in order to inform one or more players of changes in the gamification state. In some embodiments the UI on the receiving device e.g. mobile device computer tablet etc. may respond to progress event messages. For example the UI may unlock additional buttons or functionality based on the level the player has achieved and vice versa if the player s skill has degraded in some way. Such feedback allows the UI to adjust its functionality in conjunction with the player s abilities and skills.

Although event messages sent from the message broker to the frontends are generally intended for players in some embodiments event messages may be consumed by the enterprise information system itself. For example the enterprise information system may receive event messages relating to a sales person s progress. If the enterprise information system receives an event that indicates the sales person has received some achievement badge within the game the enterprise information system may assign an additional role to the sales person or unlock some capability in the backend system of the enterprise.

As another example in some embodiments the enterprise information system may have already implemented or is currently managing a metric that is relevant to the gamification data. Rather than duplicating the metric in the gamification platform the gamification repository may be configured with information to access the metric from the enterprise system. An example of such a configuration is illustrated in . Here the enterprise information systems and each have respective data systems and . The figure represents a configuration where the gamification data may be distributed among data systems and and the gamification repository . Accordingly the gamification repository may access gamification data stored in either data store or via the message broker . In an embodiment for example the gamification repository may access data from and deposit data with the data stores and via event messages using the message broker .

Accordingly in some embodiments the gamification data may be distributed across multiple data systems in addition to or perhaps instead of the gamification repository . In order to maintain transparency within the gamification platform the internal components of the gamification platform may always access gamification data via the gamification repository . If the gamification data is distributed the gamification repository would be responsible for managing data access among the multiple data storage systems.

In some embodiments the workflow for gamification system includes a design time workflow and a runtime workflow. Referring to an embodiment of a design time workflow will be described. In a step an administrative user may gain access to the gaming platform . The administrative user may define in step various elements of the game. For example the overall landscape of the gaming environment may be defined. The administrative user may define rewards to be offered. Player avatars may be designed and so on. These elements may be stored in the gamification repository .

In a step the administrative user may define the gamification rules and provide the gamification rules to the RMS e.g. in a rules file. In accordance with the present disclosure the gamification rules may be expressed in terms of events that may occur in the enterprise or external events that are relevant to the enterprise e.g. when the player fulfills sales order X the player gets 3 experience points. In some embodiments the gamification rules may be defined in accordance with the business project management BPM model of the enterprise information system and more generally the gamification rules may be calculated from business processes of the enterprise. In some embodiments the gamification rules may be derived automatically from the BPM . Such integration of the enterprise s business model vis vis the BPM into the gamification platform provides a high degree of flexibility and agility for the business user. As changes are made to the BPM so too will changes be made to the gamification rules to maintain close correspondence between gaming dynamics and the enterprise s business model and processes. The RMS may load the gamification rules into the rule engine in step . In some embodiments the rule engine may poll the RMS to learn whether there are any changes to the gamification rules .

In a step users in the enterprise may be synchronized with the gamification system as players . In some embodiments the administrative user may manually add users from the enterprise to the gamification platform e.g. the gamification repository may be used to store the players defined by an administrative user using the administrative UI . In some embodiments users from the enterprise may be added to the gamification platform via explicit gamification rules for managing the addition and deletion of players. For example the enterprise may send a newUser event message to the gamification platform . The event message may include all the metadata e.g. user name user s job title in the enterprise their player name initial settings etc. needed to register the user as a player in the gamification platform . A deleteUser event message may be defined to allow for a player to be deleted from the gamification platform . In other embodiments players may be added in an ad hoc fashion if the enterprise information system cannot support a newUser event message. For example the enterprise information system may simply send an event message that includes an unknown user ID. When such an event message is received the user ID may be added to the gamification platform . Any additional data that may be needed for the added user may be obtained via an interaction between the gamification platform and the user.

In a step the administrative user may initiate a synchronization action to synchronize or otherwise import data from the enterprise information systems of the enterprise into the gamification platform . This step is optional and may be performed to initialize aspects of the gaming environment with metrics that are available from the enterprise. For example carbon emission levels allocated budget and other pre existing data from the enterprise may be relevant gamification data that can be stored in the gamification repository . This step may be performed any time that a new metric is developed in the enterprise information system that is deemed to be relevant gamification data.

Referring to an embodiment of the runtime workflow will be described. The runtime workflow highlights the processing that takes place when an event from the enterprise propagates into the gamification platform. The basic flow includes the message broker receiving an event message from the enterprise information system s of the enterprise. The event message is forwarded to the rule engine which processes the event message according to the gamification rules . As shown in the rule engine may comprise an event manager and a complex event processor . The complex event processor may comprise an inference engine a repository of rules and a fact base .

Suppose an event ein the enterprise occurs. For example a business application in the enterprise may detect the placement of a sales order and in response may generate a SALES event message and communicate the event message to the message broker . In some embodiments an event message may be generated by a sensor or other automated device. For example an event message may be sent when a sensor in a factory raises an alarm that machine x is broken when a sensor informs that the airplane has taken off when an alarm that a fire sprinkler in room 420 has been activated and so on. In some embodiments an event message may be generated manually . For example the CEO of the enterprise decides to give all players additional points the last winner in an internal innovation contest receives a custom badge and so on. In a step the message broker may receive the event message.

In a step the message broker may forward the event message to the rule engine . In a typical scenario many players may be concurrently playing the game and so the gamification system is likely to be hit with many events as the players play the game and as events occur in the enterprise. Accordingly in some embodiments the gamification platform may instantiate multiple rule engines in order to accommodate high numbers of players in the enterprise and to process concurrent events coming in from the enterprise in order to provide adequate response time. For example the message broker may perform load balancing by distributing event messages across the multiple instantiations of rule engines . If a rule engine is not available to process the event message the message broker may store the event message until a rule engine becomes available.

When the message broker forwards the event message to a rule engine the event message may be received by the event manager . In a step the event manager may retrieve gamification data from the gamification repository based on data contained in the received event message. In accordance with the present disclosure the current state of the game and the current state of its players may be incorporated in the gamification rules in addition to events. Accordingly the event manager may access gamification data including state information about the player or players involved the event the gamification state and other information relevant to processing an event in terms of the current state context of the game. For example relevant contextual information about the game or player may be that it is currently night time in the game that three of the ten hidden treasures have been discovered that player X is nearby that player Y has 100 experience points and so on. As will be discussed the inference engine may reason through the gamification rules using such contextual information.

In a step the event manager may provide the retrieved gamification data to the complex event processor . In particular the received event message and the retrieved gamification data may be loaded into the fact base of the complex event processor . The gamification data may serve to initialize the fact base with information i.e. context relating to the current state of the game that is relevant to the received event message.

In a step event manager may invoke processing in the inference engine to reason if the received event message fulfills any of the gamification rules using the received event message and the context loaded into the fact base . As explained above the RMS may store and manage several versions of gamification rules . Accordingly the gamification rules that are in play may be stored in the repository of rules and accessed by the inference engine .

In accordance with principles of the present disclosure the inference engine may reason over multiple events and arbitrary relationships among events. The inference engine may also take into account the current gamification state and previous gamification states. The inference engine may reason over events related by logic time and space. For example if event A occurred within 5 minutes of event B then inference engine may trigger a certain consequence. If event A occurred at location X then trigger a consequence but if event A occurred at location Y then trigger another consequence. If event A occurred when player X has 100 experience points then trigger a consequence. If event A and event B occur within 10 days of each other and in respective locations X and Y then trigger an event. If event A occurred when it is night time in the game then trigger a consequence. And so on.

In a step if a gamification rule is satisfied then the inference engine may trigger a consequence associated with the gamification rule for example rewarding a player who made an achievement. However it will be appreciated that consequences may involve any arbitrary action. A commerce type event may result in debiting a players virtual bank account when they purchase an item for example. If a player uses a cheat the player may be punished by a reduction in their experience points as a consequence. The inference engine may generate one or more progress event messages to represent the consequence s triggered by a gamification rule.

In accordance with principles of the present disclosure a gamification rule need not lead to a consequence with actions that immediately change the gamification state. For example the consequence of a gamification rule may be to invoke another gamification rule. Consider for example a delayed award. Suppose a player performs a task X. The gamification rule for performing task X may be to invoke a time delay rule that waits for some amount of time to pass say 24 hours. The time delay rule may then give the player their award when the 24 hours has passed. More generally gamification rules may be nested which is to say that one gamification rule when triggered may invoke another gamification rule which in turn may invoke yet another gamification rule when triggered and so on. The nesting of gamification rules allows a designer to specify a series of nested sub goals that a player or players may have to achieve in order to win a prize.

In a step the gamification repository may be updated by the inference engine to maintain a current gamification state for example by publishing the progress events generated in step into the message broker . The current gamification state context may be represented with state information about the game environment. For example gamification state information may include state information that indicates time of day season summer fall etc. current weather raining windy etc. and so on. The gamification state information may include state information about the state of structures in the game. For example a building is on fire a forest has X number of trees a road has been traversed. The gamification state information may include state information about the state of items in the game e.g. five treasures have been discovered by players a door is open a car is being driven and so on. The gamification state information may include state information about the players in the game e.g. their current location game level experience points health their possessions achievements and so on.

In a step the progress event messages may be published to the message broker and to be forwarded to players in the enterprise. In some embodiments the players may register to receive certain progress events. For example a sales person player may not be interested in progress events relating to implementation of an employee safety program by the human resource group. The sales person player may therefore designate to receive only progress events that relate to sales. Accordingly the message broker may perform some degree of filtering and distribution control to forward relevant progress events to each player according to the player s preferences. In addition the player may simply turn off gamification in which case the message broker filters out all messages for that player. In some embodiments the player may introduce an avatar to protect their identity. Accordingly message passing by the message broker may be influenced by the fact that the player has defined an avatar to represent them.

A particular embodiment of the gamification platform in accordance with the present disclosure is illustrated in which shows a high level block diagram of a computer system configured to operate as the gamification platform. The computer system may include a central processing unit CPU or other similar data processing component. The computer system may include various memory components. For example the memory components may include a volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM and a data storage device . A communication interface may be provided to allow the computer system to communicate over a communication network such as a local area network LAN the Internet and so on. An internal bus may interconnect the components comprising the computer system .

The data storage device may comprise a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable program code . The computer executable program code may be executed by the CPU to cause the CPU to provide the processing of the rule engine . For example the CPU may perform the workflows shown in . In some embodiments the computer system and computer executable program code may provide virtualization capability to facilitate supporting multiple instances of the rule engine .

The data storage device may store data structures such as the gamification rules and may serve as the gamification repository . In some embodiments the data storage device may comprise a separate storage system to serve as the gamification repository .

All systems and processes discussed herein may be embodied in program code stored on one or more non transitory computer readable media. Such media may include for example a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD ROM a Flash drive magnetic tape and solid state Random Access Memory RAM or Read Only Memory ROM storage units. It will be appreciated that embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. Elements described herein as communicating with one another are directly or indirectly capable of communicating over any number of different systems for transferring data including but not limited to shared memory communication a local area network a wide area network a telephone network a cellular network a fiber optic network a satellite network an infrared network a radio frequency network and any other type of network that may be used to transmit information between devices. Moreover communication between systems may proceed over any one or more transmission protocols that are or become known such as Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Internet Protocol IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and Wireless Application Protocol WAP .

A gamification system in accordance with principles of the present disclosure provides a platform to gamify an enterprise by facilitating the integration of the enterprise s enterprise information system s with a gamification platform. The gamification system can provide immediate feedback to the enterprise users players via progress events. The gaming environment provides a context that can present the enterprise s goals and challenges in an engaging and fun manner that encourages participation by the users. The gamification system can provide ranks levels time pressures team building virtual goods gifts marketplaces and encourage competition among players. Additional game mechanics includes rewarding of points such as experience points redeemable points etc. managing a leader board and so on.

The above description illustrates various embodiments of the present disclosure along with examples of how aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented. The above examples and embodiments should not be deemed to be the only embodiments and are presented to illustrate the flexibility and advantages of the present disclosure as defined by the following claims. Based on the above disclosure and the following claims other arrangements embodiments implementations and equivalents will be evident to those skilled in the art and may be employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the claims.

