---

title: System and method for preventing observation of password entry using face detection
abstract: A method of preventing observation of password entry on an electronic device is provided. The electronic device has a processor coupled to a camera, a display, and a memory. The method comprises activating the camera to acquire an image when the electronic device is in a password entry mode; detecting one or more faces present in the image; and presenting a warning when more than one face is present in the image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495520&OS=09495520&RS=09495520
owner: 2236008 Ontario Inc.
number: 09495520
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140404
---
The present application is generally related to security on electronic devices and more particularly to preventing unauthorized password entry using face detection on mobile communication devices.

Communication devices such as mobile communication devices may be equipped with cameras. Cameras can be used to bolster security of the mobile communication device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present description described is an electronic device comprising a processor a display coupled to the processor a memory coupled to the processor a camera coupled to the processor and a security module saved in the memory. The security module configures the processor to activate the camera to acquire an image when the electronic device is in a password entry mode detect one or more faces present in the image and present a warning when more than one face is present in the image.

In accordance with another aspect of the present description described is a method of preventing observation of password entry on an electronic device having a processor coupled to a camera a display and a memory. The method comprises activating the camera to acquire an image when the electronic device is in a password entry mode detecting one or more faces present in the image and presenting a warning when more than one face is present in the image.

In accordance with another aspect of the present description described is a non transitory computer readable medium storing program instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method for preventing observation of password entry on an electronic device. The method comprises activating a camera to acquire an image when the electronic device is in a password entry mode detecting one or more faces present in the image and presenting a warning when more than one face is present in the image.

A common problem in the world of security for mobile communication devices is preventing an individual for obtaining a user s password by watching the user input the password into the device. This problem is commonly referred to as shoulder surfing when a third party stands behind a user for the purpose of observing the user s input into the mobile communication device.

To address one or more of the above noted issues a camera of the mobile communication device such as a front facing camera may be activated when the password entry mode of the device is active. The camera system of the device and or the device processor may have the ability to detect faces in images acquired by the camera. If more than one face is detected in images acquired by the camera when the password entry mode is active the device may issue an alert or warning to the user of the device warning that someone may be trying to observe the user enter his or her password.

Referring first to a front view of an example electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device can be a mobile phone portable computer smartphone tablet computer personal digital assistant a wearable computer such as a watch a television a digital camera or a computer system for example. The electronic device may be of a form apart from those specifically listed above.

The electronic device includes one or more cameras . The cameras are configured to generate camera media such as images in the form of still photographs motion video or another type of camera data. The camera media may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor associated with the camera . Components other than the image sensor may be associated with the camera although such other components may not be shown in the Figures. More particularly the image sensor not shown is configured to produce an electronic signal in dependence on received light. That is the image sensor converts an optical image into an electronic signal which may be output from the image sensor by way of one or more electrical connectors associated with the image sensor. The electronic signal represents electronic image data which may also be referred to as camera media or camera data from which information referred to as image context may be computed.

In the example illustrated the electronic device includes a rear facing camera . A rear facing camera is a camera that is located to obtain images of a subject near a rear face of the electronic device . That is the rear facing camera may be located on or near a rear face of the electronic device .

The electronic device also includes a front facing camera instead of or in addition to the rear facing camera . The front facing camera is a camera which is located to obtain images of a subject near the front face of the electronic device . That is the front facing camera may be generally located at or near a front face of the electronic device . The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the front facing camera may be located above or below the display . In at least some examples the front facing camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face. In at least some embodiments the front facing camera may be used for example to allow a user of the electronic device to engage in a video based chat with a user of another electronic device . In at least some embodiments the front facing camera is mounted internally within a housing of the electronic device beneath a region of the front face which transmits light. For example the front facing camera may be mounted beneath a clear portion of the housing which allows light to be transmitted to the internally mounted camera.

In at least some examples the electronic device may include both the front facing camera and also the rear facing camera . The rear facing camera may obtain images which are not within the field of view of the front facing camera . The fields of view of the front facing and rear facing cameras may generally be in opposing directions.

The electronic device includes one or more flashes and collectively referred to as flash . The flash may in at least some examples be a light emitting diode LED flash. The flash emits electromagnetic radiation. More particularly the flash may be used to produce a brief bright light which may facilitate picture taking in low light conditions. That is the flash may emit light while an image is captured using the cameras . In the example illustrated the flash is located to emit light at the rear face of the electronic device . That is the flash is a rear facing flash. The electronic device may include the front facing flash instead of or in addition to the rear facing flash to emit light at the front face of the electronic device . The electronic device may have additional camera hardware which may complement the cameras .

Still referring to transparent covers cover the image sensors of the cameras and the flash . The transparent cover allows light to pass through e.g. from the flash to the exterior of the housing or from the exterior of the housing to the image sensor and prevents debris or dirt from entering into the housing. Dirt or debris that could otherwise enter into the housing could potentially damage the components of the camera and flash . In the example illustrated in transparent covers are secured to the housing. For example the transparent covers may be secured to the housing using an adhesive or using snaps or similar attachment mechanism in such a manner so as to be flush with the housing. The transparent covers can be transparent and made out of glass or plastic or another suitable transparent or translucent material. For example the cover can be made out of stained or partially stained glass.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device of may include a housing which houses components of the electronic device . Internal components of the electronic device may be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with components or device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more microphones one or more cameras and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display which may be a liquid crystal display LCD a flash one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication module and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the components or subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other components or subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device may include a touchscreen display. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter . The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate.

The electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some examples the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network.

In some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the electronic device .

The electronic device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various examples the data may include service data having information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents images and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may in at least some examples include metadata which may store information about the images. In some embodiments the metadata and the images may be stored together. That is a single file may include both an image and also metadata regarding that image. For example in at least some embodiments the image may be formatted and stored as a JPEG image.

The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the electronic device memory.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system. The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some examples the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer for processing. Further data may be transmitted to and from the electronic device using a WiFi network or using near field communication technologies.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The short range communication module provides for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication module may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

The electronic device can also include one or more sensors such as temperature sensor rotation sensors for example a gyroscope translation sensors for example accelerometers position sensors for example magnetometers and sensor sub systems such as a geolocalization sub system which can be based on a global positional signal.

In the example illustrated the cameras are included in a camera system along with a flash an optical image stabilizer OIS and an image signal processor ISP . The optical image stabilizer OIS may be integrated with the cameras or it may be a separate component. For example the OIS may be considered as a functional part of the camera system . Similarly the ISP may be embedded in the processor and it may also be considered as a functional part of the camera system . In at least some examples the cameras may be associated with a dedicated image signal processor which may provide at least some camera related functions with the image signal processor being either embedded in the cameras or a separate device. For example in at least some embodiments the image signal processor may be configured to provide auto focusing functions. Functions or features which are described below with reference to the camera application may in at least some embodiments be provided in whole or in part by the image signal processor .

The camera system associated with the electronic device also includes a flash . As noted above the flash is used to illuminate a subject while the cameras capture an image of the subject. The flash may for example be used in low light conditions. In the example illustrated the flash is coupled with the main processor of the electronic device . The flash may be coupled to the image signal processor which may be used to trigger the flash . The image signal processor may in at least some embodiments control the flash . In at least some such embodiments applications associated with the main processor may be permitted to trigger the flash by providing an instruction to the image signal processor to instruct the image signal processor to trigger the flash . In one or more embodiments the image signal processor may be coupled to the processor .

The optical image stabilizer can be coupled to the camera or the image signal processor or both and operates to stabilize the camera during an image capture. The optical image stabilizer may receive instructions from the image signal processor . Similarly the optical image stabilizer may be coupled to the processor and may receive instructions from the processor . The image signal processor may obtain data from the optical image stabilizer relating to its movement and operation. In one or more embodiments the camera system may have a separate memory not shown on which the image signal processor can store data and retrieve instructions. Such instructions may for example have been stored in the memory by the processor which may in some embodiments also be coupled to the separate memory in the camera system .

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication module or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The electronic device may have a security module which may be implemented as part of the operating system . Alternatively the security module may be installed as one of the applications . The security module may implement many or all of the security features of the electronic device such as password entry voice detection face detection and or face recognition data encryption etc. The security module may operate in communication with other applications or module such as the camera application for receiving data from one or both of the cameras .

In some example embodiments the electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or webpage download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded webpage may be further processed by a web browser or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using an input interface in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and may operate as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules such as applications stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules may include the operating system software and one or more additional applications or modules such as for example the camera application . The processor may also operate to process data stored in memory associated with the electronic device .

In the example of the camera application is illustrated as being implemented as a stand alone application . However in other example examples the camera application could be provided by another application or module such as for example the operating system software or in some examples the security module . Further while the camera application is illustrated with a single block the functions or features provided by the camera application could in at least some embodiments be divided up and implemented by a plurality of applications and or modules. In one or more embodiments the camera application can be implemented by the ISP .

The camera application may for example be configured to provide a viewfinder on the display by displaying in real time or near real time an image defined in the electronic signals received from the cameras . The camera application may also be configured to capture an image or video by storing an image or video defined by the electronic signals received from the cameras and processed by the image signal processor . For example the camera application may be configured to store an image or video to memory of the electronic device .

The camera application may also be configured to control options or preferences associated with the cameras . For example the camera application may be configured to control a camera lens aperture and or a shutter speed. The control of such features may in at least some embodiments be automatically performed by the image signal processor associated with the cameras .

In at least some examples the camera application may be configured to focus the cameras on a subject. For example the camera application may be configured to request the image signal processor to control an actuator of the cameras to move a lens which is comprised of one or more lens elements in the cameras relative to an image sensor in the cameras . For example when capturing images of subjects which are very close to the cameras e.g. subject at macro position such as a person entering a password the image signal processor may control the actuator to cause the actuator to move the lens away from the image sensor.

In at least some examples the image signal processor may provide for auto focusing capabilities. For example the image signal processor may analyze received electronic signals to determine whether the images captured by the camera are in focus. That is the image signal processor may determine whether the images defined by electronic signals received from the cameras are focused properly on the subject of such images. The image signal processor may for example make this determination based on the sharpness of such images. If the image signal processor determines that the images are not in focus then the camera application may cause the image signal processor to adjust the actuator which controls the lens to focus the image.

In at least some examples the camera application may be configured to control a flash associated with the cameras and or to control a zoom associated with the cameras . In at least some embodiments the camera application is configured to provide digital zoom features. The camera application may provide digital zoom features by cropping an image down to a centered area with the same aspect ratio as the original. In at least some embodiments the camera application may interpolate within the cropped image to bring the cropped image back up to the pixel dimensions of the original.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory.

Referring to an exemplary method of preventing observation of password entry on an electronic device will now be described. In one example the method can be implemented on an electronic device having a processor a display coupled to the processor a memory and or and or coupled to the processor and a camera e.g. camera system having the cameras and or coupled to the processor .

At a password entry mode is initiated on the electronic device . The password entry mode may be initiated in response to a user of the electronic device attempting to use the electronic device when the electronic device is in a locked mode. For example when the electronic device is in a locked mode requiring password entry for further use the user may attempt to provide an input to the electronic device such as by touching the display that provides an input to the processor by pushing a button on the electronic device that provides an input to the processor or even by picking up the electronic device that may provide an input to the processor such as from the sensor . When the user attempts to provide such input to the electronic device when in a locked mode the security module may require password entry from the user before providing some or any of the functions of the electronic device . In one example the required password entry may be provided on the display in the form of a prompt or password entry field where the user may touch keys of a virtual keyboard displayed on the display in order to enter the password needed to unlock the device.

When the password entry mode described above is active e.g. before the user has entered the entire correct password and pressed the enter key resulting in verification of the password and termination of the locked mode of the electronic device a camera may be activated at . The camera may be activated to acquire an image when the electronic device is in the password entry mode. In one example the camera may be a front facing camera such as the front facing camera since the user entering the password will typically be located in front of the front face of the wireless device . While the front facing camera is used as an example any camera such as the camera or both of the cameras and may be used to meet the design criteria of a particular application. At data representing an image is acquired by the image sensor of the camera and the data is provided to the ISP and or to the processor .

At the data representing the image is processed to detect faces e.g. by either the ISP or the processor . Face detection may be performed according to any known or yet to be designed face detection methodology. Exemplary face detection methodologies are already employed on existing digital cameras and portable electronic devices as illustrated when squares crosshairs or other indicia are shown on camera viewfinders indicating the presence of one or more faces in an image to be acquired. At any faces present in the data representing the image may be detected and the resulting number of detected faces counted with the result assigned to a variable e.g. X faces are present in the current image .

If at X 1 the method proceeds to where a warning is presented if more than one face is present in the image. The warning may include a visual notification displayed on the display . The visual notification may include a colour indication displayed on the display adjacent to a password entry area displayed on the display and or a pop up window having a message displayed on the display . In one example the colour indication could be in the form of a coloured border placed around the password entry field or password entry window present on the display . In another example the colour indication displayed on the display could be a background colour change applied to the display such that most of or the entire colour of the display changes. In another example a pop up window may be displayed on the display with a message telling the user that more than one person or face has been detected. In another example the message may simply instruct the user to ensure that no one is observing the device password being entered. While a number of examples of visual notifications have been provided any visual notification whether discrete or overt could be used to alert the user that more than one person or face has been detected by the front facing camera according to the design criteria of a particular application.

In another example the electronic device has a speaker such as the speaker coupled to the processor and the warning may include an audio notification played through the speaker. In one example the user may have headphones connected to the electronic device and the device may play a simple message to the user of the electronic device . The message may read content to the user that is similar to the message contained in the pop up windows discussed above or the message may be any suitable tone noise pre recorded message etc.

In another example the electronic device has a vibrator e.g. other device subsystems may include a vibrator coupled to the processor and the warning may include a vibratory notification presented using the vibrator. For example if the user is holding the electronic device in a password entry mode and the front facing camera detects more than one person or face in an image the electronic device may vibrate briefly to alert the user that the entry of the password could be observed by another person.

Once a warning is presented on the display at block the method then returns to the block . Optionally at password entry mode of the electronic device may be disabled when more than one face is detected in the image. For example the warning may be displayed at and any password entered by a user may be rejected as long as more than one face is detected in the image. In another example the user may be prevented from entering any further password characters as long as more than one face is detected in the image.

Referring now to another exemplary method of preventing observation of password entry on an electronic device will now be described. Blocks and of method are similar to blocks and of method respectively and therefore the description of blocks and is kept brief.

In one example the method can be implemented on an electronic device having a processor a display coupled to the processor a memory and or and or coupled to the processor and a camera e.g. camera system having the cameras and or coupled to the processor .

At a password entry mode is initiated on the electronic device as described above with reference to block .

When the password entry mode described above is active e.g. before the user has entered the entire correct password and pressed the enter key resulting in verification of the password and termination of the locked mode of the electronic device a camera may be activated at as described above with reference to block .

At the data presenting the image is processed to detect faces e.g. by either the ISP or the processor as described above with reference to block . At any faces present in the data representing the image may be detected and the resulting number counted with the result assigned to a variable e.g. Y faces are present in the current image .

At a query is executed to see if Y 1. Block may also apply face recognition. Under control of the security module the electronic device may have a previously stored sample of the owner s face in memory e.g. as data stored in the memory . Whenever a face is detected at the block the block may also attempt facial recognition to see if the detected face is that of the owner of the electronic device . If Y

The warning may include a visual notification displayed on the display . The visual notification may include a colour indication displayed on the display adjacent to a password entry area displayed on the display and or a pop up window having a message displayed on the display . In one example the colour indication could be in the form of a coloured border placed around the password entry field or password entry window present on the display . In another example the colour indication displayed on the display could be a background colour change applied to the display such that most of or the entire colour of the display changes. In another example a pop up window may be displayed on the display with a message telling the user that more than one person or face has been detected or telling the user that he is not authorized to enter a password into the wireless device if the user is not the owner of the wireless device . In another example the message may simply instruct the user to ensure that no one is observing the device password being entered. While a number of examples of visual notifications have been provided any visual notification whether discrete or overt could be used to alert the user that more than one person or face has been detected by the front facing camera according to the design criteria of a particular application.

In another example an audio notification or vibratory notification may be presented as previously described.

Once a warning is presented on the display the method then returns to the block . Optionally at password entry mode of the electronic device may be disabled when more than one face is detected in the image or when any face not belonging to the owner of the electronic device is present in the image. For example the warning may be displayed at and any password entered by a user may be rejected as long as more than one face is detected in the image or when any face not belonging to the owner of the electronic device is present in the image. In another example the user may be prevented from entering any further password characters as long as more than one face is detected in the image or when any face not belonging to the owner of the electronic device is present in the image.

While the present application mentions cameras for determining whether more than one face can be detected in front of the electronic device any suitable sensor of the electronic device may be used to gather data to determine whether more than one person is likely in a position to observe the display of the electronic device.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as an electronic device including a mobile communications device or camera. The electronic device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable storage medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. For example a non transitory compute readable storage medium may include computer executable instructions tangibly embodying code for performing one or more of the methods described herein. It is understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

One or more embodiments have been described by way of example. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the art that a number of variations and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of what is defined in the claims.

