---

title: Electronic device and method of managing memory of electronic device
abstract: A method of managing a memory by an electronic device is provided. The method includes configuring a swap data amount per unit time, identifying an actual use amount of swap data, and comparing the identified actual use amount of the swap data with the configured swap data amount per unit time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501238&OS=09501238&RS=09501238
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09501238
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141126
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Nov. 27 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2013 0145668 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device and a method of managing an electronic device. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a method of using a nonvolatile memory included in an electronic device as a swap memory.

In general recently developed electronic devices such as smart phones tablet Personal Computers PC Portable Multimedia Players PMP Personal Digital Assistants PDA laptop PCs and wearable devices are not only capable of mobility but may also perform various functions e.g. games Social Network Services SNS Internet multimedia and taking and executing a picture or a video .

Particularly the electronic device has difficulty in processing various functions through a main memory alone included in the electronic device as demand for functions related to graphic processing and voice processing which require high performance increases.

A swap memory technology using a non volatile memory as a system memory as well as the main memory may overcome a limit of the memory capacity.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

By using a non volatile memory used as a storage device as a swap memory a design life of the non volatile memory may be reduced or power consumption may increase due to the use of the non volatile memory.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method of using a swap memory management method in a non volatile memory for a long time and reducing power consumption by limiting a swap data amount per unit time and an electronic device using the same.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of managing a memory by an electronic device is provided. The method includes configuring a swap data amount per unit time identifying an actual use amount of swap data and comparing the identified actual use amount of the swap data with the configured swap data amount per unit time.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a non volatile memory device and a processor wherein the processor configures a swap data amount per unit time identifies an actual use amount of swap data and compares the identified actual use amount of the swap data with the configured swap data amount per unit time.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a display a non volatile memory device and a processor wherein the processor displays a swap memory configuration screen on the display and displays at least one application and a swap memory amount per unit time which is configured for the at least one application.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo a smart watch and the like .

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus may connect components of the electronic device such as the processor the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface . The bus may be a circuit transmitting communication e.g. a control message between the processor the memory the input output interface the display or the communication interface.

The processor may receive a command of the memory the input output interface the display and or the communication interface through the bus . The processor may read the received command and perform calculations or data processing according to the command.

The memory may store a command and or data generated by the processor the input output interface the display and or the communication interface . The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application .

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used for executing an operation or a function implemented by other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API or the application other than the kernel .

The kernel may provide an interface that enables the middle ware the API and or the application to access an individual component of the electronic device for control or management.

The middle ware may act as a relay so that the API or the application communicates with the kernel to receive and transmit data. In connection with operation requests received from the application the middleware may assign priorities to use system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to one or more of the applications and control the operation requests e.g. scheduling or load balancing .

The API is an interface for controlling functions provided by the application in the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function e.g. a command for file control window control image processing text control and the like.

The application may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application measuring a quantity of exercise or blood sugar or an environment information application e.g. an application providing information on pressure humidity or temperature . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device or an electronic device . For example the application related to the information exchange may include a notification relay application for transferring particular information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information generated by another application e.g. an SMS MMS application an email application a health care application or an environment information application of the electronic device to the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the electronic device and provide the received notification information to the user. For example the device management application may manage e.g. install remove or update at least a part of functions e.g. turning on off the external electronic device or some components of the external electronic device or controlling a brightness or resolution of the display of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the electronic device communicating with the electronic device an application executed in the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a message service provided by the external electronic device.

The application may include an application designated according to attributes the type of the electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the electronic device . For example in a case where the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the electronic device .

The input output interface may transmit a command or data input from the user through an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory and or the communication interface through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide the processor with data associated with a user s touch input through the touch screen. For example the input output interface may output through the input output device e.g. a speaker or the display the command or data received from the processor the memory or the communication interface through the bus . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and the external device e.g. the electronic device the electronic device and or a server . For example the communication interface may support network communication e.g. Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS short range communication e.g. Wireless Fidelity WiFi BlueTooth BT Near Field Communication NFC or wired communication e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard RS 232 or POTS . According to an embodiment a protocol e.g. a short range communication protocol a network communication protocol or a wired communication protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external device may be supported by at least one of the API and the middleware . Each of the electronic devices and may be a device which is the same as the electronic device e.g. a device of the same type or another device e.g. a device of a different type .

Referring to an electronic device may include one or more processors the memory a communication module a user input module a display module an interface a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a sensor module an audio module a camera module an indicator a motor a power management module and or a battery .

The processor may include one or more Application Processors APs or one or more Communication Processors CPs . In although the AP and the CP are included within the processor the AP and the CP may be included within different IC packages respectively. According to an embodiment the AP and the CP may be included within one IC package.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and process various data including multimedia data and perform calculations. For example the AP may be implemented by a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not illustrated .

The CP may perform a function of managing a data link and changing a protocol in communication between different electronic devices e.g. the electronic device the electronic device and the server connected to the electronic device through the network. For example the CP may be implemented by a SoC. According to an embodiment the CP may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions. For example the CP may distinguish and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network by using a subscriber identification module e.g. the SIM card . Further the CP may provide a user with services such as voice calls video calls text messages packet data and the like.

The CP may control data transmission reception of the communication module . Although components such as the CP the memory and the power management module are illustrated as components separated from the AP the AP may include at least some of the above listed components e.g. the CP in an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the CP may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected to each of the AP and the CP to a volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the CP may store data received from or generated by at least one of the other components in a non volatile memory.

The memory may include an internal memory and an external memory . For example the internal memory may include at least one of volatile memories e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous DRAM SDRAM and the like or non volatile memories e.g. a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like . According to an embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick and the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The communication module e.g. the communication interface of may include a Radio Frequency RF module or a wireless communication module .

The RF module may transmit receive data and an RF signal. The RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and the like. For example the wireless communication module may include WiFi BT Global Positioning System GPS or NFC . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function using a wireless frequency. Additionally and alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card or a modem in order to connect the electronic device with a network e.g. Internet LAN WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network POTS and the like .

The user input module may include a touch panel a pen sensor a key and or an ultrasonic input device . For example the touch panel may recognize a touch input in at least one of a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. Further the touch panel may further include a control circuit. The capacitive type touch panel may recognize physical contact or proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction. The pen sensor may be implemented using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet. For example the key may include a physical button an optical key a keypad or a touch key. The ultrasonic input device is a device which may detect an acoustic wave by a microphone through an input means generating an ultrasonic signal to identify data and may perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may use the communication module to receive a user input from an external device connected thereto e.g. a network a computer or a server .

The display module e.g. the display of may include a panel a hologram device and or a projector . For example the panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED and the like. For example the panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be constructed as one module. The hologram device may show a three dimensional image in the air using interference of light. The projector may project light on a screen to display an image. For example the screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device and or the projector .

The interface may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical communication terminal and or a D subminiature D sub . For example the interface may be included in the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a Mobile High definition Link MHL a SD Multi Media Card MMC or an Infrared Data Association IrDA .

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured and or detected information to an electronic signal. For example the sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a Red Green Blue RGB sensor a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor L. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module .

The SIM card may be a card including a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The audio module may bi directionally convert a sound and an electrical signal. For example at least some components of the audio module may be included in the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may process sound information input output through the speaker the receiver the earphones and or the microphone .

The camera module is a device which may photograph a still image and a moving image. According to an embodiment the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a back sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The indicator may show particular statuses e.g. a booting status a message status a charging status and the like of the electronic device or a part e.g. the AP of the electronic device . The motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . The power management module may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC a battery and or fuel gauge. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from flowing in from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic scheme may be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging e.g. a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like may be added. The battery gauge may measure the remaining amount of battery and the charging voltage and current or the temperature.

The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include a rechargeable battery and or a solar battery.

The electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. GPU for supporting mobile TV. For example the processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and the like.

Referring to a communication protocol between electronic devices and may include a device discovery protocol a capability exchange protocol a network protocol and an application protocol .

The communication protocol may be a protocol for detecting an external electronic device capable of communicating with the electronic devices and or connecting the detected external electronic device with the electronic devices and . For example the electronic device may detect another electronic device which may perform communication through a communication method e.g. WiFi BT USB and the like which the electronic device is able to use by using the device discovery protocol . For a communication connection with another electronic device the electronic device may acquire identification information of the electronic device detected through the device discovery protocol and store the acquired identification information. For example the electronic device may establish the communication connection with another electronic device at least based on the identification information.

According to an embodiment the device discovery protocol may be a protocol for authenticating a plurality of electronic devices. For example the electronic device may perform authentication between the electronic device and another electronic device based on communication information e.g. a Media Access Control MAC address a Universally Unique IDentifier UUID a SubSystem IDentification SSID and an Internet Protocol IP address . According to an embodiment the capability exchange protocol may be a protocol for exchanging information related to a service function which is supported by at least one of the electronic device and another electronic device . For example the electronic device or another electronic device may exchange information related to a service function currently provided by each of the electronic device and the electronic device through the capability exchange protocol . The exchangeable information may include identification information indicating a particular service among a plurality of services which may be supported by the electronic device or the other electronic device . For example the electronic device may receive from the other electronic device identification information of a particular service provided by the other electronic device through the capability exchange protocol . In this case the electronic device may determine if the electronic device may support the particular service based on the received identification information.

According to an embodiment the network protocol may be a protocol for controlling the flow of data transmitted received to provide services linked between the electronic devices connected to communicate with each other e.g. another electronic device may be the electronic device or the server as well as the electronic device . For example at least one of the electronic device and another electronic device may control an error or data quality by using the network protocol . Additionally or alternatively the network protocol may determine a transport format of data transmitted received between the electronic device and the electronic device . Further at least one of the electronic device and the electronic device may at least manage a session e.g. connect or terminate a session for a data exchange between the electronic devices by using the network protocol .

According to an embodiment the application protocol may be a protocol for providing a process or information for exchanging data related to a service provided to an external electronic device. For example the electronic device may provide a service to another electronic device e.g. in addition to the electronic device another electronic device may be the electronic device or the server through the application protocol .

According to an embodiment the communication protocol may include a communication protocol designated by an individual or organization e.g. a communication protocol self designated by a communication device manufacturing company or a network supplying company or a combination thereof.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including a combination of one or more of hardware software and firmware. The term module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been already known or are to be developed in the future.

Referring to a memory management system of the electronic device includes a host and a storage device .

The host may include the bus the processor and a main memory . For example the bus and the processor included in the host may be the same as the above described devices.

When the processor loads a new page to the main memory the processor may perform a swap operation if the memory lacks an unused memory or has a memory smaller than or equal to a predetermined level. The swap operation is an operation of storing at least one of the pages loaded to the main memory in the storage device as swap data in order to secure a storage space of the new page.

The processor may be connected to the main memory through the bus including an address bus a control bus and or a data bus.

The processor may configure a swap data amount per unit time which may be written in a non volatile memory in consideration of at least one of a storage capacity a planned lifespan and a usage environment. For example the processor may configure the swap data amount per unit time as 100 Mb 100 Mb daily per day or 10 Mb 10 Mb hour per hour. The unit time and the swap data per unit time may be calculated by the processor considering at least one of the storage capacity the design life and the usage environment of the non volatile memory or may be configured by a user a manufacturer or a service provider. A default value may be provided to help in the user s configuration. The default value may be a value calculated by the processor or provided by a manufacturer or a service provider based on a use pattern. Alternatively the default value may be a value determined by a combination of the above methods.

According to an embodiment the user may configure swap data for each of one or more applications . For example among the applications an application supporting a three dimensional game encounters a situation in which an unused area becomes smaller than or equal to a predetermined level in the main memory to process a large amount of data. The user may identify an application which frequently uses the main memory to configure the swap data amount. The electronic device may store at least one of the pages loaded to the main memory in the storage device as the swap data according to swap data amount information for each of the applications configured by the user. The configuration by the user may be stored or a user interface may be provided to modify the configuration. The swap data amount may be configured for each of the applications by the processor considering memory use amount information instead of the configuration by the user.

When a new page is loaded to the main memory the processor determines whether the main memory lacks unused pages or the unused pages are smaller than or equal to a predetermined level. When the main memory lacks unused pages or the unused pages are smaller than or equal to a predetermined level the processor may transmit at least one of a plurality of pages to the storage device as the swap data.

At this time the processor may determine whether to transmit the swap data to the storage device based on the configured swap data amount per unit time. When a swap data amount pre transmitted to the storage device reaches the configured swap data amount per unit time the processor may not transmit the swap data to the storage device . When a swap data amount pre transmitted to the storage device does not reach the configured swap data amount per unit time the processor may transmit the swap data to the storage device . Even though the swap data amount reaches an acceptable swap data amount additional transmission may be permitted within a predetermined range according to a certain condition e.g. a task priority or importance of a response speed .

When the total amount of configured swap data per unit time is not used during the unit of time or the electronic device reaches a predetermined time within the unit time the processor may re configure the swap data amount per unit time of a next unit time to use the remaining swap data. Referring to Table 1 when the total amount of configured swap data per unit time is used during the unit time or the electronic device reaches a predetermined time within the unit time the processor may carry the remaining swap data forward to a next unit time and re configure the swap data amount per unit time which will be described below.

For example in Table 1 the processor may configure the swap data per unit time such that swap data of 100 Mb may be written in the non volatile memory per day. During the first day when the electronic device actually uses 50 Mb of swap data the processor may re configure the swap data amount per unit time of the next unit time such that the remaining swap data of 50 Mb may be used during the next unit time that is the second day . During the second day the processor may re configure the swap data per unit time such that swap data of 150 Mb may be transmitted to the non volatile memory during the day. During the second day when the electronic device actually uses the 40 Mb of swap data the processor may re configure the swap data amount per unit time of the next unit time such that the remaining 210 Mb of swap data may be used during the next unit time that is the third day . During the third day when the electronic device actually uses 10 Mb of swap data the processor may carry the remaining 200 Mb of swap data forward to the next unit time that is the fourth day . Accordingly during the fourth day the processor may re configure the swap data per unit time and transmit 300 Mb of swap data to the non volatile memory during the day. However the processor may configure a maximum value of swap data amount per unit time to guarantee a planned lifespan of the non volatile memory . For example the maximum value of the swap data amount per day is configured as 250 Mb in Table 1. Accordingly during the fourth day the processor may re configure the swap data amount per unit time to be 250 MB instead of 300 Mb per day.

According to an embodiment the processor may change the swap data per unit time according to a use time point. The processor may configure different swap data amounts per unit time at every time point by predicting a particular time when the swap data use amount is large.

For example although the swap data allocated to everyday e.g. swap data per unit time is the same as 100 Mb day in Table 1 the processor may configure the swap data per unit time as 500 Mb day in the first day and as 100 Mb day thereafter. For example since the applications to be installed or used may be large on the first day in which the electronic device is first used the swap data amount per unit time may be differently configured at every particular time point based on the above fact.

The main memory is a memory which may exchange data with the processor and is used in a process of executing an Operating System OS or an application run by the processor . The main memory may store an address translation table for converting a logical address received from the processor to a physical address the non volatile memory .

The main memory may be divided into a plurality of segments or pages. When a new page is required to be loaded to the main memory the main memory lacks unused pages or the unused pages are smaller than or equal to a predetermined level a swap out operation of writing at least one of the plurality of pages in the non volatile memory as the swap data may be performed. For example the page written in the non volatile memory may be a Least Recently Used LRU page. When an access to the page stored in the non volatile memory is required the page may be written in the main memory by a swap in operation.

For example the main memory may include a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM . According to another example the main memory may include a Static Random Access Memory SRAM a flash memory a Phase Change Random Access Memory PCRAM a Ferroelectric Random Access Memory FRAM a Resistive Random Access Memory RRAM or a Magnetic Random Access Memory MRAM .

The storage device may include a controller and at least one non volatile memory . For example the main memory and the storage device may be the same as the above described memory . The controller may be included in the host instead of the storage unit .

The controller may receive a command from the host and respond to the command so as to control an operation of the storage device .

The non volatile memory may store data provided from the host . The non volatile memory may preserve the stored data even though power supply is blocked. The non volatile memory may be used as a swap memory of the host . For example the non volatile memory may include a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory a PCRAM a FRAM a RRAM or a MRAM.

The non volatile memory may include at least one swap partition or an area having a similar function thereto and further include a data partition and the like. When at least one partition or an area having a similar function exists in the non volatile memory the non volatile memory may include a partition table having information on the partition or area or a similar information area. The controller may extract an address of the swap partition from the partition table and generate a swap address table including address information of the swap data based on the extracted address of the swap partition. According to an embodiment the swap address table may be stored in the non volatile memory or stored in another memory within the controller . According to an embodiment the swap address table may include a logical address or a physical address of the swap data.

When the controller receives data from the host the controller may determine whether the received data is the swap data based on the address information stored in the swap address table. For example when the address of the received data exists within the swap address table the controller may determine the received data as the swap data. When the address of the received data does not exist within the swap data table the controller may determine the received data as general or abnormal data.

The swap address table stores a physical address of the swap data. The controller may convert a logical address of the received data to the physical address and then determine whether the physical address of the received data exists within the swap address table. According to another embodiment the swap address table stores a logical address of the swap data. The controller may determine whether the logical address of the received data exists within the swap address table.

Referring to the processor may include a page search module a swap page selection module and a swap control module . The processor may further include a swap data configuration module .

The page search module searches for an empty page in the non volatile memory used as the swap memory. The swap page selection module selects a page to be swapped by using an existing page swap algorithm e.g. FIFO LRU LFU and NUR algorithms and manages information for selecting the page to be swapped. The swap control module swaps data of the page to be swapped for the empty page found by the page search module . To this end the swap control module may include information on the page to be swapped and information on the empty page to be transmitted to the controller .

The swap data configuration module may configure the swap data amount per unit time which may be written in the non volatile memory . At this time the swap control module may determine whether to transmit the swap data to the storage device based on the configured swap data amount per unit time. When a swap data amount pre transmitted to the storage device reaches the configured swap data amount per unit time the swap control module may not transmit the swap data to the storage device . When a swap data amount pre transmitted to the storage device does not reach the configured swap data amount per unit time the swap control module may transmit the swap data to the storage device .

When the electronic device has not used all the swap data per unit time the swap data configuration module may re configure the swap data amount per unit time by carrying the remaining swap data forward to the next unit time. The swap data configuration module may configure a maximum value of the swap data amount per unit time. For example when the swap data configuration module re configures the swap data amount per unit time the swap data configuration module may configure the maximum value of the swap data amount per unit time.

Although the components of the processor illustrated in are illustrated to be functionally or logically separated from each other the components do not have to be physical devices or codes separated from other.

Referring to the electronic device may configure a swap data amount per unit time in operation . For example the electronic device may configure the swap data amount per unit time which may be written in the non volatile memory in operation .

According to an embodiment the processor may change the swap data per unit time according to a use time point in operation . The electronic device may configure different swap data amounts per unit time at every time point by predicting a particular time when the swap data use amount is large in operation . The electronic device may identify an actual use amount of the swap data of the electronic device in operation .

The electronic device may determine whether the actual use amount of the configured swap data reaches the configured swap data amount per unit time or the re configured swap data amount per unit time in operation . For example the electronic device may determine whether to transmit the swap data to the storage device based on the configured swap data amount per unit time or the re configured swap data amount per unit time in operation .

When a pre transmitted swap data amount e.g. the actual use amount of the swap data reaches the configured swap data amount per unit time the electronic device may stop transmission of the swap data to the non volatile memory in operation .

When the pre transmitted swap data amount e.g. the actual use amount of the swap data does not reach the configured swap data amount per unit time the electronic device may proceed to operation to determine whether the unit time ends.

The electronic device may determine whether the unit time ends in operation and proceeds to operation when the unit time does not end. When the unit time does not end the electronic device may transmit the swap data to the non volatile memory in operation .

When the electronic device determines that the unit time ends the electronic device may re configure the swap data amount per unit time in operation . For example in operation when the electronic device determines that the unit time ends the electronic device may re configure the swap data amount per unit time by adding up the swap data amount per unit time pre configured in operation and swap data amounts which have not been used before the unit time ends.

For example in operation the electronic device may limit the swap data amount re configured by adding up the pre configured swap data amount per unit time and the swap data amounts which have not been used before the unit time ends to a preset maximum value. For example in operation when the swap data amount re configured by adding up the pre configured swap data amount per unit time and the swap data amounts which have not been used before the unit time ends exceeds the maximum value the maximum value becomes the re configured swap data amount per unit time.

According to another embodiment when the swap data amount reaches the maximum value the re configuration may not be made. That is the remaining swap data may not be carried forward.

According to another embodiment even though there is some swap data remaining which may be carried forward the remaining swap data may not be carried forward or an amount of the swap data to be carried forward may be limited according to a condition e.g. a planned lifespan of the non volatile memory a time point a time a user s configuration or a system load . According to the above embodiment a condition where the maximum value is continuously maintained due to the swap data carried forward may be prevented.

According to another embodiment the maximum value may vary depending on a condition e.g. a planned lifespan of the non volatile memory a time point a time a user s configuration or a system load .

According to another embodiment the swap data amount per unit time may be re configured after the unit time elapses or at a predetermined time within the unit time.

Referring to the electronic device may display a swap memory configuration screen on the display in operation . The electronic device may display one or more applications A A A and and swap memory amounts per unit time B B C and D which may be configured for each of the one or more applications in operation .

The electronic device may receive a user input signal for configuring a swap memory amount per unit time of each of the one or more applications in operation . The electronic device may store the swap memory amount per unit time of each of the one or more applications configured according to a user input signal in operation .

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

