---

title: Apparatus and method employing autonomous vehicles to reduce risk
abstract: Apparatus and method for employing autonomous air vehicles to perform high risk observation, interaction, and interrogation with individuals. Invention comprises an autonomously controlled air vehicle with mounting and transporting means being attachable to automobiles and other first responder vehicle types. Mounting and transporting means serves also as a base station for commanding autonomous air vehicle and relaying communications to and from autonomous air vehicle to and from remote data base sources. Autonomously controlled air vehicle is equipped with a variety of sensors which air in observation and detection of suspects, their vehicles and possessions therein, and any documentation produced during the interrogation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09481459&OS=09481459&RS=09481459
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 09481459
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141208
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

There are real world situations where responsibility requirements put individuals at risk. The following examples such as military force protection road checks or pulling over vehicles with drivers can demonstrate the advantages of autonomous vehicle platforms over human interaction. Consider a situation where a security guard or law enforcement officer LEO conducting force protection within an area of responsibility. A LEO approaches a stopped vehicle at the road check the driver turns out to be a wanted felon using someone else s vehicle e.g. a loaned vehicle from associate and has a weapon. This situation could rapidly turn tragic for a lone LEO however the danger can be significantly reduced or completely mitigated using an autonomous vehicle.

Traditional methods rely on sending human law enforcement operators to do the assessment of the environment. More recent explorations of using remote controlled vehicles have been explored for traffic monitoring site surveillance and search as rescue. These methods operate in a benign environment devoid of hostile behaviors of individuals. The present invention combines sensor and communications technologies on an autonomous vehicle platform controlled by a user in a novel way for suspicious object interaction and integrates them in a unique system including but not limited to law enforcement activities to reduce risk.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method that employs an autonomous air vehicle to reduce risk in high risk interactions with individuals.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a mobile apparatus to transport and deploy an autonomous air vehicle.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide an apparatus to facilitate bidirectional communications between a deployed autonomous air vehicle an operator s vehicle and remoted databases.

It is yet still a further object of the present invention to provide a method for using an autonomous air vehicle to observe and interact with a suspect in high risk situations.

Briefly stated the present invention achieves these and other objects through employing autonomous air vehicles to perform high risk observation interaction and interrogation with individuals. Invention comprises an autonomously controlled air vehicle with mounting and transporting means being attachable to automobiles and other first responder vehicle types. Mounting and transporting means serves also as a base station for commanding autonomous air vehicle and relaying communications to and from autonomous air vehicle to and from remote data base sources. Autonomously controlled air vehicle is equipped with a variety of sensors which air in observation and detection of suspects their vehicles and possessions therein and any documentation produced during the interrogation.

According to an embodiment of the invention an apparatus for employing autonomous vehicles to reduce risk comprises an autonomously controlled air vehicle and a base station. The autonomously controlled air vehicle comprises an airborne communications module an airborne processing unit and a sensor module. The base station comprises a communications unit a processing unit a plurality of beacons a plurality of object tracking means a landing pad a data storage unit and a plurality of mounting means.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system having an autonomously controlled air vehicle and a base station capable of communicating with each other a method for employing that autonomously controlled air vehicle to reduce risk during suspect investigation comprising the steps of deploying the autonomously controlled air vehicle towards suspect issuing instructions through the autonomously controlled air vehicle capturing images of the suspect capturing images of document which the suspect produces in response to the instructions communicating the images from the autonomous air vehicle to the base station performing image comparison and performing text extraction and classification and correlating the text and the image identification.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

Referring to shows the system components of the present invention comprising the autonomous assistant vehicle AAV the base station the mobile unit and the relay processing unit .

Referring to The AAV is mounted on a vehicle operated by a AAV user herein referred to as user and is deployed by the user on an as needed basis to perform assistance in gathering data for situational monitoring safety information and adjudication of procedures. depicts an exemplar scenario in which the user deploys the AAV to monitor a designated vehicle motorist or suspicious event.

Still referring to the AAV can be sent out prior to the user approaching the suspicious object . The AAV utilizes its on board sensors to scan the vehicle and alert the user e.g. a law enforcement officer if it detects any suspicious objects. Sensors will be used for the detection of weapons illegal substances impaired drivers driver identification etc. However computationally heavy processing such as facial recognition to compare suspects against a database of known wanted criminals will be executed using a high performance specially designed computer located on board the AAV base station . Short proximity low latency high bandwidth communications will enable high speed secure data transmission to from AAV to from the base station for processing computationally intensive tasks. Similarly voice recognition can be used to identify suspects one such example is voice activation on Moto X phone . Also the AAV can be outfitted with modules to enable remote interaction between the operator and suspect. The AAV can also be used to cause a diversion if necessary. The clear advantage of such a system is that is the reduction in uncertainty and increased safety of the officers at minimal cost.

A careful review of current UAV technologies reveals that this risk can be and should be reduced through situation awareness. The advancements of technologies such as improvements to battery life miniaturization of electronics enhanced algorithms for computer vision and teleoperation control of remotely piloted and autonomous vehicles provide the key building blocks to develop an AAV that will provide meaningful situational awareness.

Referring to the present invention essentially consists of two major components the base station and AAV quad rotor or another similar flying platform with location assisting and monitoring sensors .

Referring to the base station see contains integrated processing and storage Kinect like 3D depth localization assisted sensors charging station and communications modules . The quad rotor AAV see is designed to be relatively cheap and replaceable with minimal set of sensors required to do its mission.

Mounting of AAV on the host vehicle see entails placing the landing pad or base station see of the AAV on the roof of the host vehicle other mobile unit see behind the lights to minimize the air draft while the vehicle is in motion. The landing pad will have sloped edges that rise above the parked AAV to reduce the draft. Also the landing pad edges can be curved around the shape of the AAV to further reduce the draft. In scenarios of use the AAV can change its shape to reduce air drag e.g. fold propellers .

The base station also used as a landing pad will serve as a multi purpose device to secure storage of the AAV while not in use. The present invention uses magnetic points and LED beacons on the landing pad for assisted alignment with landing. To reduce air drag the base station houses the AAV when not in flight and provides wireless charging for the AAV whereas the landing pad has a built in inductive charger . The landing pad can provide multi input multi output high bandwidth short proximity wireless communications with the AAV . The landing pad contains necessary computer hardware infrastructure to execute computationally intensive tasks on behalf of AAV such as but not limited to object recognition facial recognition voice recognition sensor fusion mapping of the environment 3D tracking and other computationally intensive tasks. The landing pad provides storage for video audio and other fused data. The present invention base station also provides host external sensors for enhanced mapping and tracking of objects in 3D space . There are the reduction of cost benefits to the present invention in that the charging station and base station can contain the majority of the specialized hardware. The AAV is contemplated to be relatively cheap and replaceable in the case one gets destroyed. The localization sensors Kinect like see mounted on the vehicle can be used to create 3D images of the area around the host vehicle using on board 3D object mapping and tracking means see . The user officer can select the object on the display and task the AAV to scan it. Another way to deploy the AAV is to utilize Google Maps by selecting waypoints of interest on a map. A third way is to let the user using the assisted control guide the AAV .

Referring to describes using the AAV to interact with the suspect object. Once the AAV is deployed the user can issue instructions to the suspect object such as a person in the vehicle using audio and video sensors in combination with some on board processing see to show your license and registration place your arms on the steering wheel or raise them into the air etc. The AAV can take the image of the documents or image of suspect run through database and perform automated image comparison and text classification for data correlation and fusion and do other processing as necessary.

Referring to if features are detected using AAV imaging sensors the invention can perform the facial recognition and check for features of dangerous items such as firearms knives . Face recognition can then be check run against a wanted list and check for weapons. Once a potentially dangerous object is detected the officer can be alerted visually vocally and or through vibration using cellphone smartwatch inside officers vehicle and other devices. The alerts can be discrete or perceivable to local observers. If features are not detected the AAV can be repositioned to take another look . In using the AAV to cause a distraction given a scenario where a situation becomes dangerous say a suspect pulls a weapon the AAV can use a speaker a visual flash a spray mace paper spray on subject to temporarily distract or immobilize the suspect. Special sensors see can be attached to the AAV to check for presence of alcohol drugs biological and nuclear materials. Information collected and transferred via a communications module see in real time to an information fusion center can be used as dedication of valid legal procedures of the officer and interaction with suspect for the future legal investigations. The AAV will have rims around propellers to prevent any damage during accidental bumping with the environment menus.

Referring to the present invention performs multi sensor correlation. Image recognition voice recognition and other source databases can be searched fused and correlated to provide a complete operating picture for the law enforcement such as in the form of a synthetic document . A user defined operating picture allows the enforcement officials to access a database with various search parameters.

