---

title: Methods for removal of mercury from flue gas
abstract: Methods and systems for reducing mercury emissions are provided herein. The methods, generally, include the steps of burning a heavy metal containing fuel source and introducing sorbent materials and introducing one or more halogen compounds into the combustion chamber and/or exhaust stream to remove the heavy metal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09068745&OS=09068745&RS=09068745
owner: CALGON CARBON CORPORATION
number: 09068745
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140307
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 650 431 entitled Methods for Removal of Mercury from Flue Gas filed on Oct. 12 2012 issued Mar. 25 2014 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 679 430 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 082 337 entitled Methods for Removal of Mercury from Flue Gas filed Apr. 7 2011 issued Nov. 13 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 309 046 which claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 321 696 filed on Apr. 7 2010 entitled Methods for Removal of Mercury from Flue Gas the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Various embodiments include a method for reducing heavy metal emissions including the steps of burning a heavy metal containing fuel in a combustion chamber introducing molecular halogen or one or more halogen precursors into the combustion chamber or an exhaust stream resulting from combustion of the heavy metal containing fuel near the combustion chamber and injecting activated carbon having a mean particle diameter of less than 15 m into the exhaust stream. In some embodiments the one or more halogen precursors may be calcium hypochlorite calcium hypobromite calcium hypoiodite calcium chloride calcium bromide calcium iodide magnesium chloride magnesium bromide magnesium iodide sodium chloride sodium bromide sodium iodide ammonium chloride ammonium bromide ammonium iodide potassium tri chloride potassium tri bromide and potassium tri iodide. In other embodiments the halogen precursors can be calcium bromide and in still other embodiments the one or more halogen precursors may be a solid or powder in an aqueous solution or gaseous halogen. In certain embodiments the molecular halogen or one or more halogen precursors can be introduced into the combustion chamber or an exhaust stream resulting from combustion of the heavy metal containing fuel near at a concentration and or rate of addition sufficient to result in a concentration of halogen to produce a halogen to adsorptive material ratio of at least 0.7 moles of halogen per pound of adsorbent material or about 0.7 moles lb to about 5.7 moles lb or about 0.8 moles lb to about 3.1 moles lb halogen to adsorbent material. In some embodiments an aqueous solution of a halogen precursor having a concentration of about 50 by weight can be introduced into the combustion chamber or an exhaust stream resulting from combustion of the heavy metal containing fuel near the combustion chamber at a rate of less than 10 gallons per hour. In other embodiments the halogen precursor may be introduced with the fuel source injected into the combustion chamber injected into the exhaust stream near the combustion chamber or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the activated carbon has a mean particle diameter of from about 2 m to 10 m. In other embodiments the sorbent material can be injected into the exhaust stream at a rate of less than 5 pounds per million actual cubic feet lbs MMacf less than about 4 lbs MMacf less than about 3 lbs MMacf or less than about 1 lbs MMacf based on the total exhaust stream flow and in particular embodiments the sorbent material may be injected into the exhaust stream at a rate of less than 100 lbs hr. In certain embodiments the sorbent material is injected upstream of an air pre heater APH and in particular embodiments about 90 of the mercury in the fuel source may be removed. In some embodiments the fuel source can be coal.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods devices and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a combustion chamber is a reference to one or more combustion chambers and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

As used herein the term sorbent material is meant to encompass all know materials from any source capable of adsorbing mercury. For example sorbent materials include but are not limited to activated carbon natural and synthetic zeolite silica silica gel alumina and diatomaceous earths.

Mercury is a known environmental hazard and leads to health problems for both humans and non human animal species. Approximately 50 tons per year are released into the atmosphere in the United States and a significant fraction of the release comes from emissions from coal burning facilities such as electric utilities. To safeguard the health of the public and to protect the environment the utility industry is continuing to develop test and implement systems to reduce the level of mercury emissions from its plants. In the combustion of carbonaceous materials it is desirable to have a process wherein mercury and other undesirable compounds are captured and retained after the combustion phase so that they are not released into the atmosphere.

One of the most promising solutions for mercury removal from flue gas is Activated Carbon Injection ACI . Activated carbon is a highly porous non toxic readily available material that has a high affinity for mercury vapor. This technology is already established for use with municipal incinerators. Although the ACI technology is effective for mercury removal the short contact time between the activated carbon and the flue gas stream results in an inefficient use of the full adsorption capacity of the activated carbon.

Various embodiments of the invention are directed to methods for removing heavy metals such as for example mercury from a fluid stream produced as a result of combustion of a heavy metal containing fuel source by applying a molecular halogen or halogen precursor to the fuel source or introducing a molecular halogen or halogen precursor into a combustion chamber during combustion of the fuel source or introducing a molecular halogen or halogen precursor into an exhaust stream resulting from the combustion of the fuel source near the combustion chamber and injecting sorbent material into the exhaust stream i.e. flue gas resulting from consumption of the fuel source. In such embodiments the combination of applying the molecular halogen or halogen precursor to the fuel source or injecting the molecular halogen or halogen precursor into the combustion chamber and injection of sorbent material into the exhaust stream may result in substantial reduction in heavy metal emissions from the exhaust stream while significantly reducing the amount of both the molecular halogen or halogen precursor and the sorbent material used in such methods. In particular embodiments mercury removal is improved over conventional methods. In some embodiments greater than about 80 or greater than about 90 of the heavy metal can be removed from the exhaust stream based on the heavy metal content of the fuel source. Thus the combination achieves similar or improved removal rates while reducing consumption of the molecular halogen or halogen precursor and sorbent material thereby reducing costs.

The methods and systems described above may implemented into any conventional system that involves combustion of a fuel source that includes heavy metals. Numerous systems and facilities that burn heavy metal containing fuels are known and used in the art. For example some embodiments provide compositions methods and systems for reducing emissions of heavy metals from incinerators including solid waste incinerators. Other embodiments provide compositions methods and systems for reducing emissions of heavy metals such as mercury that arise from the combustion of heavy metal containing fossil fuels at for example power plants.

In some embodiments the halogen source may be introduced during combustion by injecting molecular halogen or a halogen precursor B into the combustion chamber or by applying the halogen source directly to the fuel source prior to combustion A. In other embodiments the halogen may be found in the fuel source. For example waste that includes plastics or rubbers may include halogen containing components that may release halogen ions or molecular halogens during incineration. In various embodiments sorbent material may be injected into the exhaust stream anywhere along the convection pathway before emission of the ash combustion gases and air into the atmosphere and in particular embodiments sorbent material may be injected upstream of the baghouse or electrostatic precipitator . In certain embodiments sorbent material may be injected upstream C of the air preheater APH and in some embodiments sorbent material may be injected into the exhaust stream downstream D of the APH . In still other embodiments sorbent material may be injected both upstream C of the APH and downstream D of the APH .

The molecular halogen or halogen precursor of various embodiments may be obtained from any source. For example in some embodiments molecular sources such as chlorine gas bromine gas or iodine gas can be injected into the exhaust stream near the combustion chamber alone or in combination with halogen precursor. In other embodiments one or more halogen precursors may be applied to the fuel source introduced into the combustion chamber injected into the exhaust stream near the combustion chamber or a combination thereof.

Numerous halogen precursors halogen precursors are known in the art and may be used in embodiments of the invention. In some embodiments the halogen precursor may be a gaseous precursor such as for example hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide or molecular chloride or bromide. The halogen precursor may be an organic or inorganic halogen containing compound. For example in some embodiments the halogen precursor may be one or more inorganic halogen salts which for bromine may include bromides bromates and hypobromites for iodine may include iodides iodates and hypoiodites and for chlorine may be chlorides chlorates and hypochloriates. In certain embodiments the inorganic halogen salt may be an alkali metal or an alkaline earth element containing halogen salt where the inorganic halogen salt is associated with an alkali metal such as lithium sodium and potassium or alkaline earth metal such as beryllium magnesium and calcium counterion. Non limiting examples of inorganic halogen salts including alkali metal and alkali earth metal counterions include calcium hypochlorite calcium hypobromite calcium hypoiodite calcium chloride calcium bromide calcium iodide magnesium chloride magnesium bromide magnesium iodide sodium chloride sodium bromide sodium iodide ammonium chloride ammonium bromide ammonium iodide potassium tri chloride potassium tri bromide potassium tri iodide and the like. In other embodiments the halogen may from an organic source which contains a suitably high level of the halogen. Organic halogen precursors include for example methylene chloride methylene bromide methylene iodide ethyl chloride ethyl bromide ethyl iodide chloroform bromoform iodoform carbonate tetrachloride carbonate tetrabromide carbonate tetraiodide and the like.

In some embodiments the halogen precursor may include one or more additional elements such as for example a calcium source a magnesium source a nitrate source a nitrite source or a combination thereof. Exemplary calcium and magnesium sources are well known in the art and may be useful to aid in the removal of sulfur in the flue gas that is released from the fuel source during combustion. In such embodiments the calcium or magnesium source may include inorganic calcium such as for example calcium oxides calcium hydroxides calcium carbonate calcium bicarbonate calcium sulfate calcium bisulfate calcium nitrate calcium nitrite calcium acetate calcium citrate calcium phosphate calcium hydrogen phosphate and calcium minerals such as apatite and the like or organic calcium compounds such as for example calcium salts of carboxylic acids or calcium alkoxylates or inorganic magnesium such as for example magnesium oxides magnesium hydroxides magnesium carbonate magnesium bicarbonate magnesium sulfate magnesium bisulfate magnesium nitrate magnesium nitrite magnesium acetate magnesium citrate magnesium phosphate magnesium hydrogen phosphate and magnesium minerals and the like or organic magnesium compounds such as for example magnesium salts of carboxylic acids or magnesium alkoxylates. In certain embodiments the calcium or magnesium source may be associated with the halide precursor such as for example calcium bromide magnesium bromide calcium chloride magnesium chloride calcium iodide magnesium iodide and the like. Nitrate and nitrite sources are also well known in the art and any source of nitrate of nitrite can be formulated with halogen precursor.

The halogen precursor may be a solid such as a powder a liquid or a gas. For example in some embodiments the halogen precursor may be an aqueous solution that can be sprayed onto the fuel source such as coal before combustion or can be injected into the combustion chamber or exhaust stream near the combustion chamber. A liquid halogen precursor composition may be prepared at any suitable concentration. For example in some embodiments an aqueous solution of a halogen precursor such as for example calcium bromide or calcium chloride may have a concentration of up to about 75 and in other embodiments the halogen precursor concentration in the aqueous solution may be up to about 60 by weight 55 by weight 50 by weight 45 by weight or 40 by weight or any concentration between these values. In still other embodiments an aqueous solution of a halogen precursor may include about 10 to about 75 by weight about 20 to about 60 by weight about 30 to about 55 by weight or about 40 to about 55 by weight of the halogen precursor. Similarly in other embodiments dry powdered halogen precursor may be applied to the coal at a concentration necessary to achieve a similar concentration of halogen in the flue gas stream.

In various embodiments the molecular halogen or halogen precursor which may be in solid such as a powder liquid or a gaseous form may be continuously supplied to the combustion chamber or provided incrementally during combustion. The rate of addition of the molecular halogen and halogen precursor may vary among embodiments and may depend for example on the rate of combustion of the fuel source the origin of the fuel source the amount of mercury in the fuel source the adsorption of mercury and the like. For example in some embodiments an about 40 to about 55 by weight aqueous solution of a halogen precursor such as for example calcium bromide or calcium chloride may be introduced into a combustion chamber or injected into an exhaust stream near the combustion chamber at a rate of about 500 gallons hr or less and in other embodiments an about 40 to about 55 by weight aqueous solution of the halogen precursor introduced into a combustion chamber or injected into an exhaust stream near the combustion chamber at a rate of about 400 gallons hr or less 300 gallons hr or less 200 gallons hr or less or 100 gallons hr or less. In certain embodiments an about 40 to about 55 by weight aqueous solution of the halogen precursor introduced into a combustion chamber or injected into an exhaust stream near the combustion chamber at a rate of less than 50 gallons hr or less than 25 gallons hr or less than 20 gallons hr.

The feed rate of the molecular halogen or halogen precursor may vary among embodiments and may vary depending on for example the feed rate of the fuel source and or the rate of consumption of the fuel source. For example a combustion chamber burning about 330 tons hr of a fuel source such as coal in six mills each burning about 55 tons hr where about 10 gal hr of a 50 by weight aqueous solution of calcium bromide CaBr is introduced into the combustion chamber during burning can result in about 125 ppm bromine added to the coal based on dry weight. Thus in various embodiments the concentration and or feed rate the molecular halogen or halogen precursor may be modified based on the rate of consumption of the fuel source such that up to about 400 ppm dry basis up to about 500 ppm dry basis or up to about 700 ppm dry basis bromine may be added the fuel source. In some embodiments about 50 ppm to about 500 ppm dry basis about 75 ppm to about 400 ppm dry basis about 100 ppm to about 300 ppm dry basis or about 125 ppm to about 200 ppm dry basis of bromine may be added to the fuel source.

In some embodiments the methods and systems described herein may be utilized in a multi stage furnace having for example a primary and secondary combustion chambers a rotary kiln afterburning chambers and any combinations thereof. In such embodiments molecular halogen or halogen precursor in a solid or liquid form may be introduced into any one or any combination of the chambers of the furnace. For example in some embodiments the molecular halogen or halogen precursor may be introduced into one combustion chamber and in other embodiments the molecular halogen or halogen precursor may be introduced into a combination of combustion chambers. In still other embodiments molecular halogen or halogen precursor may be introduced into one or more combustion chambers and into an exhaust stream after combustion.

In certain embodiments the halogen precursor may be introduced into one or more combustion chambers and or exhaust stream as an aqueous solution that is sprayed or injected into the chamber or exhaust stream. For example in some embodiments an aqueous solution of a halogen precursor may be sprayed or injected into a combustion gas stream downstream of a waste heat boiler. In still other embodiments an aqueous solution of the halogen precursor may be introduced into a recirculated substream such as for example a recirculated flue gas recirculated ash or recirculated fly ash. While embodiments are not limited by the zone where the molecular halogen or halogen precursor is introduced into the exhaust gas stream the temperature in the injection zone should be sufficiently high to allow dissociation and or oxidation of the elemental halogen from the halogen precursor. For example the temperature at the injection zone may be greater than about 1000 F. and in some embodiments greater than about 1500 F.

Without wishing to be bound by theory halogens from the molecular halogen or halogen precursor can oxidize with heavy metals released from the fuel source when it is burned in the combustion chamber. In general oxidized heavy metals such as mercuric halide species are adsorbable by alkaline solids in the exhaust stream such as fly ash alkali fused acidic ash e.g. bituminous ash dry flue gas desulfurization solids such as calcium oxide calcium hydroxide or calcium carbonate and removed from the flue gas by commonly used heavy metal control systems such as for example electrostatic precipitators wet flue gas desulphurization systems fabric filters and baghouses. In certain embodiments oxidized heavy metals may be adsorbed by activated carbon. Without wishing to be bound by theory the rate at which a solution of a halogen precursor may be significantly reduced by combining the application of a halogen containing composition with injection of sorbent material into the fluid stream of the combustion gases even when the mercury content of the fuel source is relatively high.

Activated carbon may be used in any embodiment. In such embodiments the activated carbon may be obtained from any source and can be made from a variety of starting materials. For example suitable materials for production of activated carbon include but are not limited to coals of various ranks such as anthracite semianthracite bituminous subbituminous brown coals or lignites nutshells such as coconut shell wood vegetables such as rice hull or straw residues or by products from petroleum processing and natural or synthetic polymeric materials. The carbonaceous material may be processed into carbon adsorbents by any conventional thermal or chemical method known in the art. The adsorbents will inherently impart different surface areas and pore volumes. Generally for example lignites can result in carbon having surface areas about 500 600 m g and typical fiber based carbons areas are about 1200 1400 m g. Certain wood based carbons may have areas in the range of about 200 m g but tend to have a very large pore volume.

Surface area and pore volume of coal based carbon may also be made to allow for some control of surface area and pore volumes and pore size distributions. In some embodiments the activated carbon adsorbent may have large surface area as measured by the Brunauer Emmett Teller BET method and may have a substantial micropore volume. As used herein micropore volume is the total volume of pores having diameter less than about 2 nm. In some embodiments suitable carbon adsorbents may have a BET surface areas greater than about 10 m g or about 50 m g greater than about 200 m g or greater than about 400 m g. In other embodiments the carbon adsorbent may have a micropore volume of greater than about 5 cm 100 g and in still other embodiments the adsorbent may have a micropore volume greater than about 20 cm 100 g.

Sorbent materials such as activated carbon of various sizes have been used to capture heavy metals in systems currently utilized and any size sorbent material can be used in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments the sorbent material may have a mean particle diameter MPD of about 0.1 m to about 100 m and in other embodiments the MPD may be about 1 m to about 30 m. In still other embodiments the MPD of the sorbent material may be less than about 15 m and in some particular embodiments the MPD may be about 2 m to about 10 m about 4 m to about 8 m or about 5 m or about 6 m.

In some embodiments the sorbent material may be treated with for example a halogen containing salt. For example in various embodiments the sorbent material may be impregnated with a bromine by for example immersing the sorbent material in a solution of a hydrogen bromide or a stream of elemental bromine gas for sufficient time to allow the bromine to impregnate the sorbent material. Various methods for impregnating the sorbent material and types of impregnated sorbent material are known and used in the art and any such sorbent material may be used in embodiments.

The sorbent material may be injected into the exhaust stream anywhere along the convection pathway downstream of the combustion chamber and before the exhaust is emitted from the stack. The sorbent material of various embodiments may generally be injected downstream of a heavy metal control systems such as for example electrostatic precipitators wet flue gas desulphurization systems fabric filters and baghouses or other ash or fly ash collection means where particulate matter can be collected and upstream of the combustion chamber. In certain embodiments the sorbent material may be injected at any zone in the convection pathway having a temperature of less than about 700 F. less than about 500 F. less than about 400 F. or less than about 350 F. For example in some embodiments sorbent material may be injected into an exhaust stream either upstream or downstream of an air pre heater APH and in other embodiments the sorbent material may be injected upstream of an air pre heater APH .

In some embodiments the rate of injection of the sorbent material may depend upon the flow rate of the exhaust stream. For example in a plant having a exhaust flue gas flow rate of about 2 000 000 actual cubic feet per minute acfm in which about 100 lbs hr of sorbent material is injected into exhaust stream in the ductwork of the plant the rate of addition of sorbent material is about 0.8 pounds per million actual cubic feet lbs MMacf . Therefore in various embodiments the injection rate of the sorbent material may vary depending up on the flow rate of the exhaust gas in the ductwork. In such embodiments the rate of addition of sorbent material based on the flow rate of the exhaust gas may be up to about 4 lbs MMacf or up to about 5 lbs MMacf. In other embodiments the rate of addition of the sorbent material based on the flow rate of the exhaust gas may be from about 0.25 lbs MMacf to about 5 lbs MMacf about 0.5 lbs MMacf to about 4.0 lbs MMacf or about 0.75 lbs MMacf to about 3.0 lbs MMacf and in particular embodiments the rate of addition may be about 0.75 lbs MMacf to about 1.5 lbs MMacf.

Particular embodiments for exemplary purposes include methods and systems including the introduction of a halogen precursor such as calcium bromide calcium chloride sodium bromide or sodium chloride into a combustion chamber where a heavy metal containing fuel source is being burned and injection of sorbent material having an MPD of less than about 15 m into an exhaust stream upstream of a heavy metal and or particulate control systems such as for example electrostatic precipitators wet flue gas desulphurization systems fabric filters and baghouses or other ash or fly ash collection means where particulate matter can be collected. In some such embodiments less than about 10 gallons hour of the an aqueous halogen precursor may be introduced into the combustion chamber and less than about 100 lbs hour of sorbent material may be injected into the exhaust stream. As a result of such treatment mercury emission from the plant employing such methods and systems may be reduced by greater than about 80 and in some embodiments greater than 90 .

Further embodiments include methods for reducing mercury emissions from flue gas in which the ratio of halogen to sorbent material provided is from about 0.7 to about 4.6 moles of halogen per pound of activated carbon and in some embodiments from about 0.8 to about 3.1 or about 1.2 to about 2.0 moles of halogen per pound of activated carbon. In such embodiments the sorbent material may have an MPD of less than about 15 m and in certain embodiments the sorbent material may have an MPD of less than about 10 m. In still other embodiments the sorbent material may have an MPD of about 6 m or less. The halogen and sorbent material may be provided anywhere during the process. For example in some embodiments the halogen may be applied to the fuel source before combustion and in other embodiments the halogen may be introduced into the combustion chamber while the fuel is burned. In still other embodiments the halogen may be introduced into the flue gas stream either before or after the sorbent material. In further embodiments the halogen may be provided with the activated carbon. For example in some embodiments the halogen may be injected into the flue gas stream separately with the activated carbon and in other embodiments the halogen may be applied to the sorbent material before it is introduced into the flue gas stream.

In embodiments in which the halogen is applied to the sorbent material before being injected into the flue gas stream the ratio of halogen to sorbent material may be the same as the ratio of halogen to sorbent material when sorbent material is introduced separately. For example in some exemplary embodiments a halogen salt such as any of the halogen salts described above may be applied to an adsorbent material having an MPD of less than 15 m less than 12 m less than 10 m in a ratio of from about 0.14 to about 1.0 pounds of halogen salt per pound of sorbent material to provide a composition that is from about 12 wt. to about 50 wt. halogen salt or about 15 wt. to about 40 wt. halogen salt. In another exemplary embodiment a halogen salt such as calcium bromide CaBr or ammonium bromide NHBr may be applied to sorbent material having an MPD of about 6 m at a ratio of about 0.43 pounds of halogen salt per pound of sorbent material or about 30 wt. halogen salt and the sorbent material halogen salt combination may be introduced into the flue gas stream. These ratios can also be expressed as moles of halogen per pound of adsorbent material. For example in some embodiments the ratio of moles of halogen per pound of sorbent material may be from about 0.7 moles lb to about 5.7 moles lb 0.8 moles lb to about 3.1 moles pound or any ratio there between and in particular embodiments the ratio of halogen per pound of sorbent material can be 2.0 moles lb. In such embodiments the halogen salt may be applied by conventional impregnation process or the halogen salt may be applied by mixing dry sorbent material with dry halogen salt. In other embodiments the sorbent material can be impregnated using a gaseous halogen. In certain embodiments such as those described above the sorbent material may be activated carbon.

Coal fired power plants utilizing conventional methods for reducing mercury emissions where a halogen precursor is introduced into a combustion chamber and no sorbent material is injected into the exhaust generally inject halogen precursor at a rate of greater than 20 gallons hour to reduce the mercury emission sufficiently. Coal fired power plants that utilize sorbent material injection without introducing a halogen precursor during combustion can inject greater than about 250 lbs hour of sorbent material into the exhaust stream to effectively reduce mercury emissions. In contrast some embodiments of the invention provide mercury reduction of greater than about 80 or greater than 90 while using less than about 10 gallons hour of a halogen precursor and less than 100 lbs hour of an activated carbon and in particular embodiments less than 100 lbs hour of sorbent material having a MPD of less than about 15 m. This is a dramatic and surprising reduction in the amount of consumables necessary to effectively reduce mercury emissions to below regulatory levels. Such embodiments therefore provide substantial economic advantages over currently used methods for reducing mercury emission while simultaneously reducing the amount of ash produced by plants that employ sorbent material injection and the amount of halogen precursor consumed.

In some embodiments mercury levels can be monitored with conventional analytical equipment using industry standard detection and determination methods and in such embodiments monitoring can be conducted periodically either manually or automatically. For example mercury emissions can be monitored once an hour to ensure compliance with government regulations and to adjust the rate of halogen precursor introduction into the combustion chamber the rate of sorbent material injection or both. Mercury can be monitored in the convective stream at suitable locations. For example in some embodiments mercury released into the atmosphere can be monitored and measured on the clean side of a particulate control system.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contained within this specification. Various aspects of the present invention will be illustrated with reference to the following non limiting examples.

A coal fired power plant fitted with a system to add calcium bromide onto the coal prior to the combustion chamber and lances for injecting activated carbon into the ductwork of the power plant at various locations was utilized for testing. Coal burned at this facility was periodically tested for mercury content to ensure accuracy of mercury removal testing. Various powdered activated carbons PACs tested at this facility are provided in Table 1.

As indicated in CaBralone PAC injection rate 0 resulted in less than about 50 mercury removal based on the mercury content of the coal consumed. The addition of PAC at 100 lbs hr PAC 30 PAC 16 PAC 6 resulted in similar reduction in mercury emission about 50 which varied slightly depending on the MPD of the PAC. The combination of CaBrinjection into the combustion chamber and PAC injection in the exhaust stream Std 1 CaBr showed improved reduction in mercury emission as did the injection of brominated PAC Std Br into the exhaust stream. Notably the combination of CaBrinjection into the combustion chamber and injection of a PAC having a smaller MPD into the exhaust stream PAC 6 4 CaBr resulted in nearly 90 reduction in mercury emissions which represents almost 20 greater reduction in mercury emissions over brominated PAC Std Br and larger MPD PAC and CaBr Std. 1 CaBr . Similarly when the injection rate for PAC was increased to 200 lbs hr small MPD PAC outperformed brominated PAC Std. Br and larger MPD PAC and various injection rates of CaBr Std. 1 CaBr Std. 2 CaBr Std. 3 CaBr Std. 4 CaBr and Std. 8 CaBr .

Further testing was carried out to determine the injection rate for a given aqueous solution of CaBrand PAC when the PAC is injected into the exhaust stream upstream of the APH Post APH Injection and downstream of the APH Pre APH Injection required to obtain 90 removal of mercury from plant emissions. The results are provided in Tables 3 and 4 respectively.

