---

title: Generating a content stream including content items from multiple applications executing on a client device
abstract: A content stream including content items retrieved from various applications executing on a client device is presented by the client device. A set of content items associated with a topic matching a stream topic associated with the content stream is identified from the retrieved content items. Quality scores are determined for each content item in the set providing a measure of a user's interest in each content item. A display set of content items is selected based on the quality scores, with one or more content items from the display set displayed based on a stream template. The stream template includes multiple slots each associated with one or more content items, and specifies a relative position of different slots to each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501481&OS=09501481&RS=09501481
owner: Flipboard, Inc.
number: 09501481
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140709
---
This invention generally relates to presenting content on a client device and more specifically to gathering content from applications for presentation on a client device.

Publishers provide an increasing amount of content items to users through digital distribution channels and users access these content items through various applications executing on client devices. A user may access content received through a variety of these applications. However as a user accesses content through an increasing number of applications the amount of time the user devotes to accessing content becomes overly time consuming. For example a user may have an application that frequently provides content that is irrelevant to the user but that rarely delivers highly engaging content. Because this application infrequently provides engaging content the user may more frequently access other applications that more consistently provide engaging content. Consequently the user may miss occasional highly engaging content items from certain applications.

A content stream presents content retrieved from various applications executing on a client device to a user of the client device such as a mobile communication device tablet computer and any other suitable computing system . In various embodiments the content stream presents content items associated with a common topic or associated with similar topics. For example content items associated with social media applications are aggregated into a social media content stream and news articles or other content items associated with news applications are aggregated into a news stream. According to expected user interest in various content items content items from various applications are identified and presented in a content stream.

Content items associated with topics based on characteristics of the content items are retrieved from various applications executing on a client device. Characteristics of a content item used to determine a topic associated with the content item include metadata associated with the content item the application from which the content item was retrieved or one or more keywords associated with the content item. Content items associated with one or more topics matching a stream topic associated with a content stream are identified. For example if at least a threshold number of topics associated with a content item match a stream topic associated with a content stream the content item is identified for inclusion in the content stream. Content items identified for inclusion in the content stream are evaluated to determine a measure of a user s interest in each content item with a quality score determined for each identified content item based at least in part on the measure of the user s interest in each identified content item. A quality score for a content item may also account for diversity of content presented by the content stream and visual appeal of the content item. Based on the quality scores content items are associated with slots in a stream template specifying the relative position of content items to each other and the content items are displayed by the client device based on the positions of slots in the stream template.

In one embodiment the content items are displayed using a scrollable interface allowing a user to navigate between various content items. Additionally a user may provide one or more inputs to the client device e.g. a swiping gesture to be presented with content items associated with a different stream topic. If the user selects a content item presented using the stream template an application associated with the selected content item is executed allowing the user to interact with the selected content item using the application.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. Alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A content stream retrieves content from applications executing on a client device such as a mobile communication device tablet computer or any other suitable computing system to generate a personalized content stream for a user of the client device based on the retrieved content. Applications executing on the client device may generate content or retrieve content from other sources. The content stream may track user selections of content and user preferences for content and the content stream may account for the user selections and preferences when generating the personalized stream of content for the user. For example user selections of content user preferences for content as well as other information may be used to infer topics likely to be relevant to a user and content items associated with one or more of the inferred topics are selected for inclusion in a personalized stream of content. In some embodiments user selections of content and user preferences for content are communicated to a content stream server which infers one or more topics likely to be relevant to the user based on the user selections user preferences or any other suitable information. When presenting content items to a user the content stream may account for relevance of various content items to the user. Thus the content stream allows the user to more easily consume content by presenting content from multiple applications in an easily navigable interface.

The content stream may be include multiple streams that each include content matching one or more stream topics. Stream topics may be based on an application from which content items are retrieved keywords associated with content items or a genre associated with applications from which content items are retrieved. For example a stream includes content items retrieved from applications that receive articles from online news sources such as news organization websites and another stream includes content items associated with one or more applications retrieving content from one or more social networking systems with which the user maintains an account. As used herein content items may include textual articles images videos audio files products for sale social media content e.g. content posted on a social networking system by users or other entities advertisements links check in events page posts comments and any other types of content capable of presentation to a user via the content stream or via one or more applications.

A source is a computing system capable of providing various types of content to an application executing on a client device . Examples of content provided by a source include text images video audio web feeds social media content messages or other suitable data. Examples of social media content include user generated content such as blogs tweets shared images video or audio social networking posts and social networking status updates. Content provided by a source may be received from a publisher e.g. stories about news events product information entertainment or educational material and distributed by the source or a source may be a publisher of content it generates. For convenience content from a source regardless of its composition may be referred to herein as a content item or as content. A content item may include various types of content elements such as text images video audio interactive media links and a combination thereof. An application executing on the client device receives content items from a source or accesses a source to retrieve content items.

The sources communicate with the client device and the content stream server via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.1 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA or digital subscriber line DSL . Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML extensible markup language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

The client device is one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment the client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively the client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. In one embodiment the client device executes a content stream application allowing a user of the client device to interact with content items from applications on the client device . For example an application generating a content stream executing on the client device requests content items from various applications executing on the client device for presentation to a client device user. In another embodiment the client device interacts with a source and the content stream server through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID . While shows a single client device in various embodiments any number of client devices may communicate with the content stream server . Different client devices may have different characteristics such as different processing capabilities different connection speeds over the network and different device types.

In one embodiment the client device sends user information and actions to the content stream server which generates information describing relevance of different content items to a user of the client device based on the user information or actions. The client device receives the information describing content item relevance from the content stream server and may use the information describing relevance of various content items when selecting content items for inclusion in a content steam. As further described below in conjunction with the client device generates one or more content streams for presentation to a user based on content items obtained from applications executing on the client device . For example the client device determines a layout of content items within a stream relative to each other based on information associated with a user such as the information describing the relevance of various content items to the user and generates a content stream including the content items arranged according to the determined layout for presentation to the user via a display device . This allows the user to access content items from various applications via the content stream in a format that enhances the user s interaction with and consumption of the content items. For example the content stream server provides a user with content items in a scrolling format in which the content items presented by the display device scroll over time to vary the content items that are presented. By presenting content items in a scrolling format the client device allows a user to interact with content items from multiple applications in an integrated format without navigating through various application specific interfaces.

A display device included in the client device presents content items to a user of the client device . Examples of the display device include a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED display an active matrix liquid crystal display AMLCD or any other suitable device. Different client devices may have display devices with different characteristics. For example different client devices have display devices with different display areas different resolutions different aspect ratios different display dimensions or differences in other characteristics.

One or more input devices included in the client device receive input from the user. Different input devices may be included in the client device . For example the client device includes a touch sensitive display for receiving input data commands or information from a user. Using a touch sensitive display allows the client device to combine the display device and an input device simplifying user interaction with presented content items. In other embodiments the client device may include a keyboard a trackpad a mouse a microphone e.g. to receive voice commands or any other device capable of receiving input from a user. Hence inputs may include a touch input a gesture input an alphanumeric input an input received from a pointing device a voice command an input based on vision tracking and a combination thereof. Additionally the client device may include multiple input devices in some embodiments. An input received via the input device when a content stream is presented may be processed by the client device so the received input is communicated to an application associated with an application associated with a content item associated with the received interaction.

The content stream server receives user information and information describing user interactions with content from the client device and other sources. Based on the received user information and information describing user interactions the content stream server determines information describing relevance of various content items to a user and provides the information describing relevance of the content items to the client device . For example the content stream server receives content preferences indicated by a user and login information to a social networking system from the client device . This information allows the content stream server to infer a user s interest in one or more topics associated with content items and to provide information describing the user s interest in the one or more topics to the client device . In this example using the information describing the user s interest in the one or more topics the client device selects content items for presentation via a content stream based at least in part on the user s interest in one or more topics and topics associated with content items increasing the user s interaction with content items via the content stream by including content items associated with a topic in which the user is likely to have an interest.

The content stream server shown in includes a user profile store a connection generator a connection store a relevance engine and a web server . In other embodiments the content stream server may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security functions load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system architecture.

In one embodiment each user of the content stream server is associated with a user profile which is stored in a user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about a user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the content stream server . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding social networking system user. Examples of attributes stored in a user profile include biographic demographic e.g. age gender occupation education socioeconomic status and other types of descriptive information such as gender hobbies or preferences location e.g. residence birthplace check in locations or other suitable information. The user profile store may also include information for accessing one or more social networking systems or other types of sources e.g. a user name a password an access code that a user has authorized the content stream server to access.

A user profile in the user profile store also includes data describing interactions by a corresponding user with content items presented by the client device . For example a user profile includes a content item identifier a description of an interaction with the content item corresponding to the content item identifier and a time when the interaction occurred. Content items a user previously interacted with may be retrieved by the content stream server using the content item identifiers in the user s user profile allowing the content stream server to identify characteristics of content items with which the user previously interacted. For example the content stream server identifies topics associated with content items with which the user previously interacted and identifies one or more topics likely to be of interest to the user based on the frequency or amount of interactions with content items associated with various topics as an example the content stream server identifies topics associated with at least a threshold number or percentage of content items with which the user previously interacted as topics likely to be of interest to the user. Although user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing the client device to present individuals relevant content items user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows one or more client devices associated with an entity to present users with content items determined to be relevant to the entity by the content stream server .

The connection generator receives information describing interactions between users and content items presented by the client device . Based on the interactions the connection generator determines connections between various content items connections between users and content items or connections between users of the content stream server . For example the connection generator identifies when users accessing content via a content stream generated by an application associated with the content stream server and executing on the client device provide feedback about a content item access a content item share a content item with other users or perform other actions with content items. In some embodiments the connection generator retrieves data describing user interaction with content items from the user s user profile in the user profile store . Alternatively user interactions with content items are communicated to the connection generator when the interactions are received by the content stream server . The connection generator may account for temporal information associated with user interactions with content items. For example the connection generator identifies user interactions with a content item within a specified time interval or applies a decay factor to identified user interactions based on times associated with interactions. The connection generator generates a connection between a user and a content item if the user s interactions with the content item satisfy one or more criteria. In one embodiment the connection generator determines one or more weights specifying a strength of the connection between the user and the content item based on user interactions with the content item that satisfy one or more criteria. Generation of connections between a user and a content item is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 905 016 filed on May 29 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety

If multiple content items are connected to a user the connection generator establishes implicit connections between each of the content items connected to the user. In one embodiment the connection generator maintains a user content graph identifying the implicit connections between content items connected to a user. In one embodiment weights associated with connections between a user and content items are used to determine weights associated with various implicit connections between content items. User content graphs for multiple users of the content stream server are combined to generate a global content graph describing connections between various content items presented via applications executing on client devices and associated with the content stream server based on user interactions with various content items. For example the global content graph is generated by combining user content graphs based on mutual connections between various content items in user content graphs.

In one embodiment the connection generator generates an adjacency matrix from the global content graph or from multiple user content graphs and stores the adjacency matrix in the connection store . The adjacency matrix describes connections between content items. For example the adjacency matrix includes identifiers of content items and weights representing the strength or closeness of connections between content items based on the global content graph. As an example the weights indicate a degree of similarity in subject matter or similarity of other characteristics associated with various content items. In other embodiments the connection store includes various adjacency matrices determined from various user content graphs the adjacency matrices may be analyzed to generate an overall adjacency matrix for content items presented by the content stream application on the client device . Graph analysis techniques may be applied to the adjacency matrix to rank content items to recommend content items to a user or to otherwise analyze relationships between content items. An example of the adjacency matrix is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 905 016 filed on May 29 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In addition to identifying connections between content items the connection generator may also determine a social proximity between users of the content stream server based on interactions between users and content items. The content stream server determines social proximity or social distance between users using a variety of techniques. For example the content stream server analyzes additional users connected to each of two users of the content stream server within a social networking system to determine the social proximity of the two users. In another example the content stream server determines social proximity between a user and an additional user by analyzing the user s interactions with content items posted by the additional user whether the content items are presented using the content stream server or on another social networking system. Additional examples for determining social proximity between users of the content stream server are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 905 016 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In one embodiment the connection generator determines a connection confidence value between a user and an additional user of a the content stream server based on the user s and the additional user s common interactions with particular content items. The connection confidence value may be a numerical score representing a measure of closeness between the user and the additional user. For example a larger connection confidence value indicates a greater similarity between the user and the additional user. In one embodiment if a user has at least a threshold connection confidence value with another user the content stream server stores a connection between the user and the additional user in the connection store .

Using data from the connection store the relevance engine generates data indicating a user s interest in content items. The relevance engine may also use data from the user profile store describing interactions between a user and content items to infer a user s interest in content items. For example content items having an implicit connection of at least a threshold weight to a content item with which the user interacted are inferred to be of interest to the user. The relevance engine may also analyze content items for one or more similar attributes to content items with which a user previously interacted. For example content items having a common keyword a common author a common source a common category a common topic or any other suitable common attribute with content items with which the user previously interacted are identified as likely to be relevant to the user. Based on a candidate content item having similar attributes to a content item with which a user has interacted the candidate content item is inferred to be of interest to the user. As another example the relevance engine infers a user has an interest in content items having one or more attributes or a threshold number of attributes in common with a content item with which an additional user having at least a threshold connection weight with the user has interacted. Data from the relevance engine may indicate a user s interest in a content item or may indicate how various attributes of content items affect a user s interest in various content items. Data describing a user s interest in various content items generated by the relevance engine is communicated to a client device corresponding to the user through the web server . In another embodiment an application associated with the content stream server and executing on the client device performs the functions described above in conjunction with the relevance engine .

The web server links the content stream server via the network to one or more client devices as well as to the one or more sources . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may retrieve content item from one or more sources . Additionally the web server communicates with the client device to send information describing user interest in content items and to receive information describing user interactions with content items user preferences for content items or other suitable information. The web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS BlackberryOS or to applications executing on a client device .

The relevance store stores data indicating relevance of content items to a user of a client device . A relevance of a content item to the user provides a measure of the user s interest in the content item. Based on data in the relevance store the content ranking module determines the user s potential interest in various content items for presentation. The data indicates indicating relevance of content items to the user may specify attributes e.g. a keyword an author a source a category or a topic of content items determined to be of interest to the user. For example data in the relevance store indicates that content items about Olympic skiing are of interest to a user. The relevance store periodically receives updated data indicating relevance of various content items to the user from the relevance engine . Alternatively or additionally data in the relevance store may also indicate relevance of one or more specific content items to a user. For example the client device obtains information from the content stream server about the user s likely interest in one or more content items. As described above in conjunction with the relevance engine infers a user s potential interest in the one or more content items based on prior interactions by the user with content items and provides the client device with information describing the user s potential interest in the one or more content items. In one embodiment the content ranking module determines a user s expected interest in one or more content items without retrieving information from the content stream server .

The template store includes stream templates each describing a spatial arrangement layout of content items relative to each other in a content stream for presentation by a client device . A stream template includes one or more slots each configured to present one or more content items. In some embodiments slots in a stream template may be configured to present a particular type of content item or to present a content item having one or more specified characteristics. For example a slot in a stream template is configured to present an image while another slot in the stream template is configured to present text data. Each slot has a size e.g. small medium or large and an aspect ratio. One or more stream templates may be associated with types of client devices allowing content items to be presented in different relative locations and with different sizes when the content items are viewed using different client devices . Additionally slots of stream templates may be associated with applications or sources allowing an application or a source to specify the size or aspect ratio of the slot presenting content items received from the application or from the source .

The application manager identifies content items from various applications executing on the client device for presentation to a user of the client device . The stream selection module selects content items from the identified content items for inclusion in a content stream. To identify content items from applications the application manager receives content items from applications through the API . For example the application manager receives news article content items about Nordic combined competitions from an application that specializes in news about obscure sports. In one embodiment the application manager requests content items from content applications which provide content items to the application manager in response to the requests.

The application manager also communicates with applications to respond to user selections of content items received via one or more input devices . In one embodiment a user selects a content item presented in a content stream and the application manager communicates a request for the content item to an application associated with the selected content item which launches the application to present the selected content item. For example the content stream displays a preview of a content item including a title and a representative image. When the user selects the preview of the content item using the input device the application manager initiates the application associated with the content item and instructs the application to present the content item in full. Hence the application manager transfers presentation of a content item from a content stream to an application associated with the content item when the content item is selected.

The stream selection module receives candidate content items collected by the application manager and selects content items for presentation by a contents stream from the candidate content items. In one embodiment the stream selection module selects content items for inclusion into a content stream as candidate content items associated with one or more topics matching one or more stream topics associated with the content stream. A topic associated with a candidate content item may be determined from one or more characteristics of a candidate content item. Example characteristics of a candidate content item include an application from which the candidate content item was retrieved a genre of application from which the candidate content item was retrieved a source associated with the candidate content item a genre of source associated with the candidate content item a category associated with the candidate content item a type associated with the candidate content item or one or more keywords e.g. a person a place an event an object an entity associated with the candidate content item. A candidate content item may be explicitly associated with one or more topics e.g. in associated metadata or the stream selection module assigns one or more topics to the candidate content item based on its characteristics. For example the stream selection module assigns topics to a candidate content item based on keywords associated with one or more topics matching or similar to keywords extracted from text included in the candidate content item.

A content stream is associated with one or more stream topics. Stream topics associated with the content stream may be specified based on one or more settings included in an application executing on the client device and associated with the content stream server . Alternatively or additionally a user of the application executing on the client device and associated with the content stream server specifies one or more stream topics associated with one or more content streams. In one embodiment the stream selection module selects content items for inclusion into a content stream that have at least a threshold number or percentage of topics matching or similar to stream topics associated with the content stream. For example a content stream about the Winter Olympics is associated with stream topics including curling speed skating and an identifier of an application created by the Olympics organizing committee. The stream selection module selects content items having at least one topic in common with the stream topics for inclusion into the content stream about the Winter Olympics.

The content ranking module receives content items selected for inclusion in a content stream by the stream selection module and determines a quality score for one or more of the content items. Content items within a content stream are ranked according to their associated quality scores and the stream layout engine generates a stream layout specifying the relative positioning of content items within the content stream based at least in part on the ranking. In one embodiment the content ranking module determines the quality score for a content item based at least in part on a relevance score providing a measure of the user s expected interest in the content item. A user s interest in a content item depends in part on the general appeal of the content item to various users of the content stream server and in part on the user s interest in topics associated with the content item. The content ranking module may use information retrieved from the content stream server describing a content item s popularity among multiple users of the content stream server to estimate the general appeal of the content item. Example information describing a content item s popularity among multiple content stream server users includes a total number of interactions with the content item e.g. views comments shares by users of the content stream server a percentage of a certain type of interaction to the total number of interactions with the content item or any other suitable information. To estimate the user s expected interest in a content item the content ranking module may use information from the relevance store describing relevance of the content item to the user. Information describing relevance of a content item to a user may be based on information stored in the user profile store such as previous interactions between the user and a content item user demographics user location a stated user preference a preference inferred for the user from connections or prior interactions and a combination thereof. Additionally information describing relevance of a content item to a user may also be based on attributes of the content item e.g. one or more keywords an author a source a category a topic one or more additional users connected to the content item .

Based in part on the determined relevance scores the content ranking module determines a quality score for various content items selected for presentation in a content stream. In one embodiment the quality score associated with a content item provides a measure of likely visual interest in the content item based on elements of the content item. For example a content item including an image element has a higher quality score than another content item including only textual elements. As another example a content item including an animation content element has a higher quality score than a content item including an image content element but not an animation content element. In one embodiment the quality score is based in part on a determination of whether a content item includes data capable of being presented by a content stream. For example if the content item has image content elements with file formats that the content stream application does not support the content item receives a lower quality score. In some embodiments a content item s relevance score is combined with information describing elements of the content item so a higher relevance score of a content item may offset the presence of less visually interesting elements in the content item.

In one embodiment the quality scores enhance diversity of content items presented by a content stream by penalizing content items that are similar to other content items having at least a threshold position in the ranking. For example the a content item and an additional content item associated with the same topic or with similar topics have at least the threshold position in the ranking based on their quality scores. The content ranking module applies a penalty to the quality score of the content item or to the additional content item based on a number of content items associated with a topic matching or similar to a topic associated with the content item or the additional content item. In one embodiment the content ranking module sorts content items by topic and ranks content items within each topic by their quality scores. In this example the quality score of a content item is penalized by an amount proportional to a number of content items associated with a similar topic and having a higher quality score than the content item. Hence a highest ranked content item associated with a topic has a higher quality score than other content items associated with the topic.

Based on content items selected by the stream selection module for inclusion in a content stream the quality scores associated with the selected content items by the content ranking module and stream template from the template store the stream layout engine generates a content stream. Based on the content items from the stream selection module the stream layout engine identifies candidate stream templates from the template store scores the candidate stream templates based on characteristics of the slots in different candidate stream templates and based on characteristics of the content items. Based on the scores associated with candidate stream templates the stream layout engine selects a stream template and associates various content items from the stream selection module with one or more slots in the selected stream template to generate a stream layout where the content items are presented relative to each other and sized based on their associated slots. When associating a content item with a slot the stream layout engine may associate the content item with a slot configured to present a specific type of content item or to present content items having one or more specified characteristics. In one embodiment the stream layout engine associates content items with slots based in part on quality scores associated with content items. For example content items associated with higher quality scores are associated with slots of the template associated with content regions that are more prominently presented.

The interface generator maintains instructions associating actions performed by the client device with inputs received via the content stream. For example instructions maintained by the interface generator associate types of inputs or specific inputs received via an input device of a client device with modifications to content presented by the content stream. As an example if the input device is a touch sensitive display the interface generator includes instructions associating different gestures with navigation through content items presented via a content stream or navigation between various content streams associated with different topics. Instructions from the interface generator are communicated to an application generating the content stream or another application presenting content via the display device of the client device . For example when the client device receives an input selecting a content item presented in a content stream the interface generator executes instructions to present the selected content item in an application associated with the selected content item. Hence based on instructions stored in the interface generator the client device processes inputs received via an input device to modify content presented via the client device .

In one embodiment the interface generator presents the content stream on a lock screen of the client device . Generally a lock screen is an interface presented when the client device is in a state of reduced functionality where the client device accepts a reduced set of inputs. The lock screen may also be presented when the client device is initially powered on or resumes activity after a period of inactivity. In some embodiments the lock screen provides functionality for accessing other interfaces of the client device and may include functionality for verifying an identity of a user of the client device e.g. a pass code or another required sequence of inputs before accessing other interfaces of the client device . Presenting a content stream on a lock screen allows a user of the client device to quickly identify content items likely to be of interest to the user without extensive interaction with the client device. For example a content stream displays previews of content items as part of an interface presented by a lock screen of the client device . Alternatively or additionally the interface generator displays the content stream as part of a navigable home interface which is presented when the client device is configured to accept inputs for accessing various applications browsers and programs executing on the client device . For example content items from the content stream are interspersed on a home interface with icons that may be selected with an input to initiate various applications.

The communication module transmits data from the client device to the content stream server via the network . Additionally the communication module receives data via the network e.g. data from the content stream server and communicates the received data to one or more components of the client device . For example the communication module is a wireless transceiver configured to transmit data using one or more wireless communication protocols. Example wireless communication protocols include Global System of Mobile GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA General Packet Radio Service GPRS third generation 3G mobile fourth generation mobile 4G High Speed Download Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . In some embodiment the communication module enables connection to the network through a wired communication protocol such as Ethernet. While shows a single communication module multiple communication modules may be included in a client device in some embodiments.

The API includes instructions for exchanging information between various applications e.g. browsers or other programs executing on the client device . For example the API includes instructions allowing an application generating a content stream to retrieve content items from various applications executing on the client device . The API may provide applications executing on the client device with instructions to communicate one or more content items to the stream selection module . As another example the API specifies instructions supported by various applications to retrieve content items in response to requests from the application manager for content items.

For purposes of illustration describes various functionalities provided by the client device . However in other embodiments the above described functionality may be provided by the content stream server or may be provided by a combination of the content stream server and a content stream application executing on a client device . For example the content stream server may retrieve content items from one or more sources and identify a set of content items for inclusion in a content stream. Additionally the content stream server may determine a quality score for content items in the identified set and communicate instructions for generating stream layouts of content items to the client device for generating the content stream.

In the example of the stream layout engine populates slots in a stream template with content items based on information from the content ranking module about the content items. Information identifying the stream template and associations between content items and slots in the stream template is stored and used to generate the content stream. For example to present a content stream to a user the stream layout engine identifies the stream template from the template store and retrieves content items from applications or sources . The stream layout engine generates data or instructions associating content items with slots within the stream template . Hence the generated stream layout includes various content regions presenting one or more content items in locations specified by slots included in the stream template . A slot may be associated with a measure of prominence providing a measure of the visibility of content presented in a location specified by the slot relative to other slots included in the stream template . For example a slot associated with in a higher position than other slots in a stream template has a higher measure of prominence than slots associated with lower positions. The stream layout engine may associates slots with content items based on a comparison of a slot s measure of prominence and a content item s quality score. For example a slot with a relatively higher measure of prominence is associated with a content item having a relatively higher measure of quality. In one embodiment differences between a content item s quality score and measures of prominence associated with various slots are determined and the content item is associated with a slot having a minimum difference between the slot s measure of prominence and the content item s quality score.

A content region A E may present image data animation data video data text data or any other information retrieved from one or more content items. In the example of the content region presents information identifying a topic associated with content presented in a content stream based on the stream template or a common characteristic of content items included in a content stream presented using the stream template . Example information identifying a topic include a description of a category e.g. news social media a name of an application associated with content items presented in the content stream or the name of a source from which one or more content items presented in the content stream are retrieved. As an additional example the content region specifies a name of a social networking system user associated with content items presented in the content stream. The content regions A E each present one or more content items selected for inclusion in the content stream by the content ranking module . Content items included in the content stream are associated with a stream topic associated with the content stream for example the content items include text and or images associated with the stream topic or are associated with a topic matching or similar to the stream topic.

In one embodiment the stream template includes more content regions than the display device of the client device may present at one time and when an input is received by the input device additional content regions from the stream template are presented. For example if a vertical swipe gesture is received content regions presented by the stream template scroll along a vertical axis of the display device so additional content regions are displayed using the stream template . For example after receiving a vertical swipe gesture one or more additional content regions slide onto the display device from a horizontal edge of the display device while one or more currently displayed content regions disappear through an opposite horizontal edge of the display device . Some content regions may partially appear along a boundary of the display device as shown by content regions E and E in .

An application executing on the client device receives one or more content items from multiple applications executing on the client device . For example an application generating the content stream retrieves content items from two or more applications executing on the client device . As an example one or more content items are received from an application and one or more additional content items are retrieved from an additional application. Each content item received by the application generating the content stream application is associated with one or more topics as described above in conjunction with . For example a topic associated with a content item indicates a genre of application e.g. a news application a social networking application an e mail application from which the content item was received .

In some embodiments receiving a content item includes providing authentication to a source of the content item. Providing authentication enables access to content originating from a source and presented through the content stream or through another application on the client device . For example the source is a social networking service and providing authentication grants access to content items from an account with the social networking service. Providing authentication may include presenting a knowledge based authentication factor e.g. a user name a password or a possession based authentication factor e.g. an access code sent to the client device . In one embodiment authentication includes providing an access token compliant with an authorization protocol such as OAuth. One or more access tokens corresponding to a source are created by an application generating the content stream or an application from which a content item is received . For example the application generating the content stream may create and store tokens for each application from which it retrieves content items. Authentication tokens may be stored and shared across applications if two or more of the applications require authentication with the same source . This sharing of created access tokens beneficially avoids multiple authentication logins by the user or the creation of multiple tokens for the same service.

Based on one or more topics associated with the received content items one or more content items are identified for inclusion in a content stream. For example a set of content items are identified from content items received from an application and content items received from an additional application. In one embodiment the one or more topics associated with each of the received content items are compared to a stream topic associated with the content stream and content items associated with at least a threshold number of topics matching or similar to the stream topic are identified for inclusion in the content stream. A topic associated with a content item indicates a characteristic of the content item such as an application from which the content item was received a genre of application from which the content item was received a source associated with the content item a genre of source associated with the content item a category associated with the content item a type associated with the content item or one or more keywords associated with the content item. A content item may be explicitly associated with one or more topics or the client device or content stream server infers one or more topics associated with the content item based on characteristics of the content item. A content stream is associated with one or more stream topics. For example a received content item is identified for inclusion in a content stream about social media because the content item was received from an application associated with a social networking system. As another example news articles and social media content having keywords associated with speed skating are identified for inclusion in a content stream having a stream topic of Dutch sports. For an example content stream based on news stories content items are associated with a topic of news are identified for inclusion in the example content stream. The client device may generate multiple content streams with each content stream associated with one or more stream topics. In various embodiments the stream topics associated with various content streams may be specified by the user of the client device or may be specified by one or more pre configured settings stored by the client device .

A quality score is determined for each of the content items identified for inclusion in a content stream. In one embodiment the quality score associated with a content item is based at least in part on a relevance score providing a measure of the user s expected interest in the content item. The relevance score may be based at least in part on user preferences and previous interactions by the user with additional content items having at least a threshold similarity to the content item. For example data from the relevance store indicating relevance of a content item to a user of the client device based on an implied connection between the content item and one or more previously presented content items with which the user interacted is used to determine a quality score associated with the content item. As another example information indicating the relevance of attributes of a content item e.g. keyword author source category or topic towards a user based on characteristics of the user is used to determine a quality score associated with the content item. In another example user preferences for attributes of content items e.g. a genre of application an application a topic etc. stored by the client device are used along with attributes of content items to determine quality scores for various content items. A quality score for content items may be based in part on general indications of a content item s popularity among various users of the content stream server e.g. associated view likes shares as described above in conjunction with .

In one embodiment a quality score is determined for a content item based in part on indicating relevance of a content item to a user of the client device and based in part on elements of the content item. For example content items with one or more elements including animation content receive a higher quality score than content items with an image content element but no animation content element. As another example the client device verifies that content items in the content items identified for inclusion in the content stream include one or more elements allowing generation of a preview of the content item e.g. a primary image a headline . In this example quality scores for content items lacking one or more elements allowing generation of previews are reduced. Additionally a quality score associated with a content item may be modified to increase diversity of the content items presented within a content stream as described above in conjunction with .

Based at least in part on the determined quality scores the content items identified for inclusion in the content stream are ranked . In one embodiment content items are ranked from highest quality score to lowest quality score so a content item having a higher position in the ranking has a larger quality score than other content items with lower positions in the ranking Based on the ranking of content items a display set of the identified content items is selected and displayed . The display set of content items may be displayed based at least in part on the ranking with the ranking of a content item in the display set affecting a slot in a stream template used to display the display set of content items. For example the display set of the identified content items includes content items having at least a threshold quality score or having at least a threshold position in the ranking. In some embodiments the number of slots in a stream template for displaying the display set specifies a number of content items included in the display set. When displaying content items from the display set a quality score associated with a content item included in the display set may be used to select a slot in a stream template used to display the content item. For example content items in the display set with higher quality scores or higher positions in the ranking are associated with slots of a stream template having more prominent display positions e.g. slots having a larger size or a position closer to the top of a stream template .

The user may interact with the displayed content items according to input received through the input device . In one embodiment if a user interacts with a displayed content item the application from which the content item was received is initiated allowing the user to further interact with the content item using the application. For example the client device receives an input selecting a content item from the display set of content items and executes an application associated with the selected content item to display the selected content item. In one embodiment the application presenting the content stream generates an access token for authentication with a source of a presented content item. When the user interacts with a content item the client device executes another application associated with the content item and passes the generated authentication token to the other executed application. The other application uses this access token for authorization with the source which beneficially avoids a duplicate authentication process for the other application.

In one embodiment additional content items are requested from multiple applications executing on the client device and received from one or more of the applications allowing the content stream to be modified over time to include different or additional content items. In one embodiment additional content items are periodically requested from various applications or are requested when a user accesses a content stream. Based on the additional content items received from applications the content stream is modified as described above to display one or more of the additional content items received from various applications. For example the content stream is updated to display one or more content items that were not previously displayed. The content stream may be updated at specified intervals or in response to a received user input. Other suitable conditions may cause additional content items to be requested such as display of a content item that was not previously displayed . For example a count of content items in a content stream that have not been displayed to a user is maintained and additional content items are requested when the count is less than a threshold. Alternatively or additionally one or more applications may push content items to an application generating the content stream so the content items are received without being requested.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

