---

title: Optimal time to post for maximum social engagement
abstract: Computer-implemented methods and systems are disclosed for making a recommending providing a post on a social media forum. One exemplary embodiment involves utilizing machine-learning techniques to produce a model capable of determining optimal post recommendations from various posting factors. The model may be produced from historical post information regarding various posts made by, for instance, marketers on a social media forum and corresponding community interest responses to the posts made by the community of users associated with the social media forum. The model may be provided to a recommendation engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607273&OS=09607273&RS=09607273
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09607273
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140108
---
This disclosure relates generally to computer implemented methods and systems for making recommendations with respect to posting on a social media forum.

Social media forums allow participants to interact with one another regarding particular topics and purposes. Individuals and companies can host join and or participate in social media forums to market and facilitate the sale of products and services. Social media forums can provide a platform that allows marketers to quickly interact and reach out to customers in a cost effective manner. Posting on a social media forum at an advantageous time can be important for multiple reasons. For instance posting an inappropriate message at an inappropriate time can destroy hard built brand images. Additionally the effectiveness of a marketing post can depend upon the timing of the post with respect to a prime time of a social media forum when the community of users associated with the forum is most active. The effectiveness of a marketing post can similarly depend upon the relative timing of other posts both marketing posts and other posts as well as other time dependent factors.

Determining an advantageous time to make a marketing or other type of post can depend on the content of the post the community and the community s behavior and activities. The participants in a community may generally favor certain content at certain times of day more than at other times of day. For example weekend sales announcements might be most effective to a particular community when posted on Friday nights. The same announcement posted on any other day comparatively might not garner as much attention.

Current techniques for posting on social media forums do not adequately account for potential differences in the level of interest over time.

One exemplary embodiment involves receiving historical post information associated with marketing posts presented on a social media forum the marketing posts having been consumed by a community of users associated with the social media forum. The embodiment further involves determining a model for predicting community interest for a potential post posted in a posting circumstance in which a time dependent posting factor is applicable wherein the model is determined based on the historical post information. The embodiment further involves providing the model for use in a recommendation engine.

These illustrative embodiments are mentioned not to limit or define the disclosure but to provide examples to aid understanding thereof. Additional embodiments are discussed in the Detailed Description and further description is provided there.

Various embodiments of the present invention are described hereinafter with reference to the figures. It should be noted that the figures are only intended to facilitate the description of specific embodiments of the invention. They are not intended as an exhaustive description of the invention or as a limitation on the scope of the invention. In addition an aspect described in conjunction with a particular embodiment of the present invention is not necessarily limited to that embodiment and may be practiced in other embodiments. For instance though examples are described herein related to marketing techniques the social media post management service may be used in any suitable field in which a user may require a post to be made on an electronic forum.

Computer implemented systems and methods are disclosed that facilitate making recommendations with respect to posting on a social media forum. In one embodiment a recommendation identifies an optimal time to make a post to maximize expected social engagement. A posting recommendation can be determined based on characteristics of a particular potential post i.e. posting factors. For example the potential post may be to post sometime this week a toy train advertisement on a social media forum hosted by the toy s manufacturer. Based on historical information the expected community response to such a post may be determined to depend upon which day of the week the post is made. A model can be created from historical post information and used to compare the expected response for each of the available posting times within the posting window. In the above example an expected community response level for a post of the toy train advertisement on the social media forum on Monday may be compared to an expected community response level for a post of the toy train advertisement on the social media forum on Tuesday and compared to an expected community response level for a post of the toy train advertisement on the social media forum on Wednesday etc. The day of the week with the best expected response level may be provided as a recommended time to make the proposed post.

One exemplary embodiment involves utilizing machine learning techniques to produce a classifier or regression model for use in determining post recommendations. Such a model may use historical post information regarding posts made by for instance marketers on a social media forum and corresponding community interest responses to the posts made by the community of users associated with the social media forum. Information about the various posting factors can be compiled using the historical post information. For example the respective impacts of each of multiple different posting factors on the community response can be estimated. A recommendation model may be determined that includes or is otherwise based on the expected impact of different posting factors on community response. This may include posting factor weight information indicative of the relative impacts of the different factors.

A recommendation engine may use the model to provide posting recommendations for a given potential post. For example a recommendation engine may receive user input identifying one or more posting factors of a potential post determine a recommendation regarding the potential post using a model based on historical posting data and provide that recommendation for display. In at least one embodiment a user may be enabled to submit content to be included in a potential post. In some cases this may be an image a video a text or any other suitable content. Additionally the user may be enabled to specify one or more of the aforementioned posting factors. The user may be required to enter a time period within which the user wishes to post the potential post. The specified time period may contain one or more separate posting opportunities during which the post is capable of being displayed. A posting opportunity may include at least posting factors such as a time of day and a day of the week.

In at least one embodiment the recommendation engine may for each posting opportunity identify the posting factors associated with the post and the posting opportunity input the extracted posting factors into the model and receive a recommendation result. The recommendation engine may then display to the user the best recommendation result or enable the user to select a preferred recommendation from a list.

As used herein the phrase social media forum refers to a website or application that enables the creation and exchange of user generated content. Examples of social media forums include but are not limited to websites utilized for micro blogging social networking social bookmarking podcasts and social blogging to name a few.

As used herein the phrase post refers to the act of sharing user generated information on a social media forum.

As used herein the phrase marketing post refers to user generated information presented in a post that relates to planning pricing coordinating promoting selling and or distribution of an idea good or service in the marketplace.

As used herein the phrase historical post information refers to information about posts presented on a social media forum the posts having been consumed by a community of users associated with the social media forum. The historical post information may also include information about posting factors associated with previously presented posts and community response information.

As used herein the term posting factor is used to describe any characteristic of a post s content or posting circumstances whether time dependent or otherwise. In at least one example time dependent posting factors may include but are not limited to time posted day posted time since author s last post time since last post of the same category number of posts within a given time period and length of time that the content of the post has been advertised to name a few examples. Other posting factors may include but are not limited to post description post sentiment post category author length of the post content of the post and preferred type of community response.

The phrases community response and community interest refer to responses made to a post on a social media forum by users of the forum. Community response information and community interest information may include values indicating a particular action taken by a community of users. For instance the user may select a button indicating that he or she likes a post. Additionally the user may re share the post in some other social media forum or via text or electronic mail. The user might respond to the post directly by creating and posting a comment associated with the post or separately posting a comment regarding similar subject matter as the original post. If the original post has a hyperlink that is accessible to users one type of community response information might include the number of hyperlink selections accessed by the community of users. The aforementioned examples are illustrative in nature it should be understood that any suitable measure of community response may be used. For instance one method of measurement may be the use of key performance indicators KPIs . KPIs may include any suitable information describing community engagement with the post that may be used to assess the post s performance with regards to the forum. For instance a user may interact with a post in various ways including but not limited to clicking a like button associated with the post sharing the post via a personal page of the forum sharing the post via a different forum entirely and or commenting on the post by entering text to be associated with the post. Any of the aforementioned examples or any suitable user interaction with the post may be measured and used to calculate a key performance indicator of the post.

The preceding non limiting examples were provided to introduce the general subject matter of this patent. The following examples and the associated Figures relate to additional non limiting examples to further illustrate one or more aspects of one or more embodiments disclosed in this patent.

Referring now to the drawings is a block diagram depicting exemplary computing devices and in an exemplary computing environment for implementing certain embodiments. Applications and other electronic content execute or are otherwise used on the exemplary computing devices and and are shown as functional components or modules. Server device illustrated in may be configured by itself or in combination with other server devices to provide a social media website. The server device illustrated in may be configured by itself or in combination with other server devices to provide a social media post management service . Applications and other electronic content execute or are otherwise used on the exemplary computing devices and and are shown as functional components or modules. As is known to one of skill in the art such applications and content may be resident in any suitable non transitory computer readable medium and execute on any suitable processor.

While the network shown in may comprise the Internet in other embodiments other networks such as an intranet or no network may be used. Moreover methods may operate within a single device. Exemplary computing devices and can be connected to a network as shown. Alternative configurations are of course possible.

Computing devices and may comprise a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM and coupled to processor and respectively. The processor and may execute computer executable program instructions and or accesses information stored in memory and or . Any processor described herein may comprise a microprocessor an ASIC a state machine or other processor and can be any of a number of computer processors. Such a processor can comprise or may be in communication with a computer readable medium which stores instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform the steps described herein.

A computer readable medium may comprise but is not limited to an electronic optical magnetic or other storage or transmission device capable of providing a processor with computer readable instructions. Other examples comprise but are not limited to a floppy disk CD ROM DVD magnetic disk memory chip ROM RAM an ASIC a configured processor optical storage magnetic tape or other magnetic storage or any other medium from which a computer processor can read instructions. A computer readable medium may transmit or carry instructions to a computer including a router private or public network or other transmission device or channel both wired and wireless. The instructions may comprise code from any suitable computer programming language including for example C C C Visual Basic Java Python Perl and JavaScript.

Computing devices and may be any computing or other electronic equipment that executes instructions and includes any type of processor based equipment that operates an operating system or otherwise executes instructions. A device will typically include a processor e.g. processor processor processor or processor that executes program instructions and may include external or internal components such as I O devices e.g. a mouse a CD ROM DVD a keyboard a display or other input or output equipment . Examples of devices are personal computers digital assistants personal digital assistants cellular phones mobile phones smart phones pagers digital tablets laptop computers Internet appliances other processor based devices and television viewing devices. Exemplary devices are respectively used as special purpose computing devices to provide specific functionality offered by their respective applications and by the interaction between their applications. As an example device is shown with a display having a user interface and various I O devices . A bus such as bus bus bus or bus will typically be included in a device as well. Each device and may communicate via network the network comprising a public or private network.

In one example client device is a laptop computing device configured for web browsing via browser plugin application . Browser plugin application may be a native application that runs outside of a browser context. In contrast browser plugin application may be provided as one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files eXtensible Markup Language XML files Javascript files SWF files of Microsoft Silverlight compatible rich Internet application files or files having any other format or combination of formats. The laptop may include a browser with a Microsoft Silverlight plugin media player that provides an application framework for executing a Microsoft Silverlight compatible rich Internet application stored as browser plugin application to provide the visual appearance and interactive functionality of the browser plugin application . The browser plugin application may request and or receive information social media website server application on server device . Additionally the browser plugin application may request and or receive information social media post management service on server device .

Server device illustrated in may be configured by itself or in combination with other server devices to provide a social media website. Server device may comprise memory a processor and a bus and may have a social media website server application stored in memory that is executed by the processor to provide the social media website server functionality. The social media website server application may expose API functions that are called by an application such as browser plugin application on client device or social media post management service on server device .

The server device illustrated in may be configured by itself or in combination with other server devices to provide a social media post management service. The server device may comprise memory a processor and a bus and may have a social media post management service stored in memory that is executed by the processor to provide the social media post management service functionality. The social media post management service may expose API functions that may be called by an application such as browser plugin application on client device .

The exemplary devices illustrated in provide an example configuration in which the exemplary social media post management service can be provided. Other configurations may be used with modifications additions and deletions to address the particular circumstances in which a particular system is used. For example in one alternative configuration all historical post information is stored in a storage location on a server device or another device other than server device or data store .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the social media post management service located in memory on service device may be configured to interact with social media website server application . located in memory on server device or alternatively with data store to obtain historical post information associated with posts made via the social media website server application . Data store may be any suitable storage capable of storing files and information of the sort used for posting on social media forums. Additionally social media post management service may be configured to interact with server device to obtain news and media information from news and media search engine located in memory the news and media information pertaining to posts made via social media website server application .

The server device illustrated in may be configured by itself or in combination with other server devices to provide a news and media search engine . The server device may have the news and media search engine stored in memory that is executed by the processor to provide news and media search engine functionality. The news and media search engine may expose API functions that may be called by an application such as social media post management service located on server device .

Embodiments disclosed herein provide various features that enable posting recommendations for posts on a social media forum. The following examples illustrate some of these features.

In at least one embodiment a method is enabled for obtaining a time recommendation to post on a social media forum such that community responses are optimized. For example a social media post management service may include a training engine . The training engine may be responsible for interacting with other server applications or modules or in this example a historical post information data store in order to obtain historical post information associated with posts made on a particular social media forum or multiple social media forums. Training engine may conduct this interaction via application programming interface . Training engine may further include configuration module that may be configured to receive user preferences via application programming interface . Received user preferences may specify what type of optimization the user requires. For example a user may specifically desire an optimization that maximizes the number of times users will comment on the post over for instance the number of times users will indicate that they approve of or like the post. A user may make this specification via graphical user interface an interface provided to the user by the social media post management service . Alternatively an optimization preference indicating a preferred type of community response or model preference scheme indicating a ranking of optimization type preferences may be loaded at startup or at any suitable time. The configuration module may receive and store such information for future preference decisions.

In at least one embodiment once the historical post information is received data extraction module a module of training engine may extract various posting factors associated with each post contained in the received historical post information. As described above the various posting factors may include but are not limited to time posted day posted post description post sentiment post category author time since author s last post time since last post of the same category length of the post content of the post number of posts with a given time period length of time that the content of the post has been advertised and indication of public interest.

In at least one embodiment algorithm module a module of training engine may be responsible for managing one or more algorithms that may be used to create at least one model the model learned from the historical post information. In at least one example the model is determined based only on the historical post information that is specific to a particular social media forum without being based on historical post information associated with different social media forums. The algorithm module may interact with the configuration module to determine an appropriate algorithm to use in creation of the model. Alternatively the models may be selected automatically by the systems using standard error metrics. Once selected the extracted posting factors may be used as input in the selected algorithm and the resulting model may be stored in model data store . Prior to storage or subsequent to storage the model may be scored by scoring module a module of training engine . Scoring module may score the model created with respect to each type of community response. The model score may be associated with the model and stored in for example model data store .

In at least one example multiple algorithms may be utilized to create multiple models to be stored in model data store . These models may be scored in a similar manner as described above to indicate how effective the model is at predicting one or more particular types of community responses. Using multiple models may enable identification of a model which performs best for the particular social media forum and the associated community of users rather than a universal model that is selected regardless of the community and forum.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a recommendation engine a module of the social media post management service may be responsible for providing a recommendation to a user suggesting an optimal time to post on a social media forum. In at least one example the user may be provided a graphical user interface an interface provided by the social media post management service . A user may utilize graphical user interface to input information pertaining to a potential post. For instance the user may submit a recommendation request indicating for instance a time window as well as information about the post. In one illustrative example a user may submit a recommendation request via graphical user interface indicating that he wishes to post a potential post within the next three days via a particular social media forum. Alternatively the recommendation request containing the potential post may be received via application programming interface as a service or function call made from an external source external with respect to the social media post management service . As a non limiting example the potential post may be related to an advertisement for a child s bicycle. The social media forum may be a social media website associated with a retail business. Once the recommendation request is received via graphical user interface or application programming interface it may be received by data extractor module a module of recommendation engine .

The recommendation request received by data extractor module may be processed and various posting factors associated with the potential post as well as the posting opportunity may be extracted. For instance metadata associated with the post may indicate that the content of the post includes an image. Furthermore post metadata may indicate the author of the post the post category e.g. text image and the time since the author last posted. In this example the recommendation request indicates a posting window of three days within which multiple posting opportunities may be utilized to display the post. For each posting opportunity within the time window the data extractor module may extract at least the time of day and day of the week.

In at least one embodiment comparison module a module of recommendation engine may be configured to receive the extracted posting factors regarding the potential post and potential posting opportunity. Comparison module may then obtain a suitable model from model data store with which to compare the received posting factors. Selection of the suitable model may include comparing a preferred type of community response indication received from the recommendation request to scores associated with models in the model data store . Perhaps the recommendation request indicates that user comments are preferred over other types of community responses. In this case a model may be selected that optimizes for user comments. Once the model is determined comparison module may input the extracted posting factors into the determined model to obtain a value indicating a predicted amount of community interest. This process may be repeated in order to determine multiple predicted community interest values corresponding to posting the potential post at each posting opportunity. In at least one example comparison module may cause to display the highest scored prediction as a recommendation to the user or alternatively may select and return the highest scored prediction. In other examples the comparison module may cause the scored predictions to be ranked and displayed to the user in accordance with the ranking such that the user may make an informed selection between predictions.

In the current example new post information is entered by a user at . The new post information may contain various posting factors as described in detail above. The new post information is received by a recommendation engine e.g. the recommendation engine at . The recommendation engine may use the posting factors as input for the previously created model s . The model s may then output an optimized time recommendation for the new post at .

In at least one example posting factors may include content based features of the post. For example a content based feature of a post may include a sentiment score of a post as measured by a sentiment classifier. A sentiment classifier analyzes text to determine if the text is intended to communicate a positive or negative sentiment. For instance a positive sentiment may be indicated by the phrase this is a great product while a negative post may be indicated by the phrase worst toy ever. Thus a post with a relatively high sentiment score may indicate a high level of confidence that the post is positive in nature. A relatively low sentiment score may indicate a high level of confidence that the post is negative in nature while an average score may indicate a level of uncertainty as to whether the post is positive or negative in nature.

As an additional example posting factors may include post time based features. For example a posting factor may be the time at which the post was posted and or the day the post was posted. Post frequency based features may be included in the posting factors including but not limited to the time elapsed since a most recent post the number of posts in a specified time period e.g. the preceding 24 hours the frequency with which the post author posts to the particular social media forum to name a few. Posting factors may also include post based features such as the length and type of the post. Post types may indicate a particular category e.g. an image a video to which the post belongs. Additionally trend based features may be included as posting factors. Trend based features indicate a degree of public interest associated with the post. Consider as an example a circumstance where a post is made advertising a child s bicycle. At the time of the post the bicycle was currently being featured on several news articles and media site videos promoting the toy. The determination that the bicycle is a popular item may be calculated based on its appearance in the news articles and media site videos. An indicator of this public interest may be stored as a posting factor associated with the post to be used for instance in calculating a recommendation model.

As indicated at a post may be associated with 1 to N posting factors which may be any combination of the aforementioned posting factors. Additionally KPIs may be associated with each post. In at least one embodiment the historical post information containing the posts and KPIs may be received and extracted by the social media post management service at . The extracted information may be inputted into one or more machine learning algorithms. Through such input one or more models may be learned at to be used later in a recommendation engine as described above.

For instance the training engine e.g. the training engine may utilize a random forest algorithm to create a recommendation model. A random forest algorithm is an ensemble learning method for classification and regression that operates by constructing a multitude of decision trees at training time. To classify a new object from input the input is used to traverse each of the trees in the forest. Each tree gives a classification and the tree votes for the input. The forest chooses the classification having the most votes over all the trees in the forest.

In at least one example posting factors may be extracted from a portion of the historical posts. A subset of the extracted posting factors may be input into the random forest algorithm and multiple decision trees may be generated each of the subset of posting factors representing a decision node within each tree. Each tree may be formed by randomly choosing one of the subset of posting factors from which to base a decision at each node. Accordingly each of the decision trees may have a different configuration of decision nodes. Posting factors of the remaining historical posts may be used as input to traverse each tree. As a result of the traversal each tree may make a vote as to whether the posting factors resulted in a favorable community response or a negative community response. These votes may be used to estimate the error of each tree by comparing the tree vote to community responses associated with each of the historical posts. The forest may choose an overall determination of favorability based on the higher number of either favorable or negative votes.

In at least one example when a prediction is needed posting factors may be extracted from the new post. Consider the case where time of day and day of week have not been provided in a post request but the request includes a posting window of the next three days. Various time and day combinations within the window may be generated and each combination along with the extracted posting factors may be used as input in order to traverse each tree in the forest. Each tree may make a vote as to whether the combination will result in a favorable community response or a negative community response. The combination having the highest positive votes may be selected as a recommendation. Alternatively a number of combinations having the highest positive votes may be selected as recommendations.

In at least one example the training engine may utilize a maximum entropy machine learning algorithm to create a recommendation model. Maximum entropy models the response by assigning probabilities based on the principle of maximum entropy that states that the correct distribution is that which maximizes entropy or uncertainty subject to the constraints represented by the evidence training data . A maximum entropy model is a model that may be used to predict the probabilities of the different possible outcomes of a categorically distributed dependent variable given a set of independent variables.

In at least one example posting factors may be expressed as constraints in terms of unknown probability distributions. One such constraint may be that the sum of the unknown probability distributions is 1. Another constraint may involve an average value of some quantity in one example an average number of comments made to a particular post of the historical posts. A variable of probability distributions for a particular posting factor may then be expressed in terms of a set of probability distributions related to the remaining posting factors thus eliminating the set of probability distributions. Entropy may then be expressed in terms of the particular posting factor. The value of the particular posting factor for which entropy is the largest is calculated. The result is a probability distribution that is consistent with the posting factor constraints but which has the largest possible uncertainty.

In at least one example when a prediction is needed extracted posting factors associated with the potential posts are input into the probability distribution. Some potential posting factors may be generated. For instance perhaps a time frame in which the potential post is to be posted. For each posting opportunity the time and day of the posting opportunity along with the extracted posting factors of the potential post may be input into the probability distribution. Each input may result in a probability as to whether the potential post will result in a positive community response. The combination of time and day along with the extracted posting factors resulting in the highest probability of positive community response may be selected as the recommendation.

Though random forest and maximum entropy are used as example algorithms any suitable standard classification or regression machine learning algorithms may be used.

In one non limiting example perhaps the recommendation request indicates a time frame of the next seven days. Further perhaps each day there are two posting opportunities one opportunity occurring in the morning and another opportunity occurring in the evening. Thus within the specified time frame there may be fourteen posting opportunities. Posting factors associated with posting opportunities may include the time and day of the posting opportunity. For each posting opportunity posting factors associated with the potential post as well as the posting factors associated with the posting opportunity are used to determine utilizing a previously created recommendation model a predicted engagement level for each posting opportunity within the time frame at .

In the current example it may be the case that a community of users associated with the specified social media forum has responded favorably to posts made in the evening regardless of the type or content of the post. Furthermore the community of users may have also responded to posts concerning toys with significant interest on Fridays and Saturdays. Consider further that the same community of users responds with less interest when posts regarding toys are made on consecutive days of the week. This information having been incorporated in a recommendation model upon creation of the model may similarly be taken into account when inputting recommendation request data. The input of this recommendation request data may result in multiple recommendation times being returned each recommendation time having an associated score indicating an amount of predicted community interest. An optimal score in some cases a highest scoring recommendation time may be selected at and presented to the user or alternatively returned. Though this example selects the highest scoring recommendation it should be understood that the recommendation displayed to the user may include multiple recommended post times in some examples scored and displayed to the user based on the scores. Such a method enables the user to select from the multiple recommended post times the post time most desired by the user.

The exemplary method may begin at block where historical post information is received the historical post information associated with a plurality of posts made on a social media forum.

At block a model may be determined based on the historical post information where the model may predict community interest for a potential post when posted in a posting circumstance in which a particular time dependent posting factor is applicable. Examples of time dependent posting factors include but are not limited to time of post day of post times since a post was last posted on the social media forum to name a few. The determined model may be provided to a recommendation engine at block .

At block information about the potential post and a time frame to present the potential post may be received the time frame comprising multiple potential posting opportunities. Social media post management service may extract posting factors of the potential post and each of the multiple potential posting opportunities at block . At block the social media post management service may predict for each of the multiple posting opportunities a respective predicted amount of community interest for the potential post.

Numerous specific details are set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. However those skilled in the art will understand that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and identifying or the like refer to actions or processes of a computing device such as one or more computers or a similar electronic computing device or devices that manipulate or transform data represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the computing platform.

The system or systems discussed herein are not limited to any particular hardware architecture or configuration. A computing device can include any suitable arrangement of components that provide a result conditioned on one or more inputs. Suitable computing devices include multipurpose microprocessor based computer systems accessing stored software that programs or configures the computing system from a general purpose computing apparatus to a specialized computing apparatus implementing one or more embodiments of the present subject matter. Any suitable programming scripting or other type of language or combinations of languages may be used to implement the teachings contained herein in software to be used in programming or configuring a computing device.

Embodiments of the methods disclosed herein may be performed in the operation of such computing devices. The order of the blocks presented in the examples above can be varied for example blocks can be re ordered combined and or broken into sub blocks. Certain blocks or processes can be performed in parallel.

The use of adapted to or configured to herein is meant as open and inclusive language that does not foreclose devices adapted to or configured to perform additional tasks or steps. Additionally the use of based on is meant to be open and inclusive in that a process step calculation or other action based on one or more recited conditions or values may in practice be based on additional conditions or values beyond those recited. Headings lists and numbering included herein are for ease of explanation only and are not meant to be limiting.

While the present subject matter has been described in detail with respect to specific embodiments thereof it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon attaining an understanding of the foregoing may readily produce alterations to variations of and equivalents to such embodiments. Accordingly it should be understood that the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of example rather than limitation and does not preclude inclusion of such modifications variations and or additions to the present subject matter as would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

