---

title: System for inline expansion of social network content and method therefor
abstract: A device, system, and method may variously include a network interface device communicatively coupled to a user interface and a processor, coupled to the network interface device, configured to cause the user interface to display a newsfeed including social network content items, the newsfeed being configured to scroll to display ones of the social network content items on the user interface. At least one of the content items includes a title and content. The content item is configurable in an expanded state corresponding to displaying all of the content of the content item upon a user selection and a contracted state corresponding to displaying a sub-portion of the content. The newsfeed is configured to display the content items in the contracted state upon the social network content item scrolling onto the user interface without respect to the content item being in an expanded state when previously displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542071&OS=09542071&RS=09542071
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09542071
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 894 190 filed Oct. 22 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to presentation and inline expansion of social network content.

Contemporary social networks display content relating to a variety of content categories. Member profiles user messages and comments information from groups and companies advertisements and the like can combine to create the overall content that constitutes at least some of the content that can be displayed on a web page or application app to users of the social network. Such information has been organized in a generally linear scrolling display conventionally known as a newsfeed feed or stream. Newsfeeds have been organized according to the order in which information is received relevance and other criteria.

Example methods and systems are directed to presentation and inline expansion of social network content. Examples merely typify possible variations. Unless explicitly stated otherwise components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided and operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident to one skilled in the art however that the present subject matter may be practiced without these specific details.

As the sources of social network information expand the way in which such information is presented to users of the social network may become more challenging. A user of the social network has the potential to be exposed to so much information that the utility of the information and or the user experience in general may be reduced. A conventional newsfeed for instance may become so long and filled with so much information that a user may have difficulty finding desired information or may be overwhelmed by the amount of information presented.

The inline expansion of online content is known. Multiple pieces of content may be displayed in series on for instance a webpage but with each piece in a contracted state such as a first predefined portion of each piece of content. Thus a news website may display a title and a few sentences of each news article on the site while also providing a link or other interaction capability that would cause the content to expand in line to show a larger portion of the content such as all of the content. The content may in various examples be contracted based on a user selection or upon leaving or reloading the webpage.

However such inline expansion and contraction systems may tend to clutter the webpage with expanded content that the user has viewed but no longer needs and has not contracted. As a result the webpage may become cluttered and overly long potentially reducing the utility and user experience of the webpage. At minimum where contracting content relies on user interaction such user interaction necessarily draws on user attention and potentially reduces the user experience.

It has been discovered that the display of content such as in a social network application and or webpage may be managed through the inline expansion and automatic contraction of content. In an example a user may cause the inline expansion of content such as in a newsfeed. While the content remains displayed on the user interface the content remains in the expanded configuration. However once the user e.g. scrolls the newsfeed so that the content as expanded is no longer visible to the user the user interface may cause the content to be displayed in the contracted configuration the next time the content is displayed to the user. As such a newsfeed may tend to remain in a relatively more ordered and aesthetically pleasing state even while being actively used by a user.

In some examples the social network includes a message publishing module such as may be utilized to receive content such as messages posts links images videos and the like and publish the content to the social network. The message publishing module or the social network generally may include a recommended interaction module . As will be disclosed in detail herein the recommended interaction module may generate and present such as via the message publishing module recommended interactions for particular members of the social network based on a relevance of various events such as are stored in the data layer or obtained via the application server module the message publishing module and or the social network generally.

As illustrated the data layer includes but is not necessarily limited to several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some examples when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person may be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database or another database not shown . With some examples the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same or different member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some examples importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some examples a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some examples does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph database .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some examples the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some examples members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some examples the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database . This information may be used to classify the member as being in various categories. For example if the member performs frequent searches of job listings thereby exhibiting behavior indicating that the member is a likely job seeker this information can be used to classify the member as a job seeker. This classification can then be used as a member profile attribute for purposes of enabling others to target the member for receiving messages or status updates. Accordingly a company that has available job openings can publish a message that is specifically directed to certain members of the social network service who are job seekers and thus more likely to be receptive to recruiting efforts.

The profile data database and the member activity database may among other sources in the social network include or store events . Such events include but are not necessarily limited to birthdays anniversaries change of status employment location etc. a publication and a previous interaction. Such events may be stored automatically and or may be stored on the basis of a user selection or choice.

Although not shown with some examples the social network provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to various content streams maintained by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

The client device may be any of a variety of computing or communication devices such as personal computers tablet computers notebooks netbooks smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs personal media players or any device configured to display a webpage network connected application or other information displaying mechanism. The client device may be one of a variety of client devices that may be connected to the system via a communication network as disclosed herein. The user interface may correspond to a particular user of the social network and may not necessarily consistently correspond to a particular client device but rather may be accessed from any of a variety of client devices communicatively coupled to the system .

The user interface is a user interface such as may be generated by the user interface module . As illustrated the example user interface includes content selection display area or ribbon and a content display area as well as a menu bar . The ribbon and in certain instances the menu bar may allow for the selection of content for displaying in the content display area . In various examples of the user interface some or all of the content selection display area the content display area and the menu bar may be included or not included and various examples of the various areas may be included or mixed and matched. For instance as will be disclosed herein a ribbon may be combined with a conventional content display area that does not include multiple pages or a content display area may be utilized with only a menu bar and not with a content selection display area . Any combination of all or some of the components is contemplated.

The menu bar may provide for the selection of generally system level social network commands and interactions. Thus in contrast to the function of the ribbon as disclosed herein the menu bar may provide for the selection not of social network content but rather notifications searching and general information. The menu bar may display information and or results in a variety of ways including as drop down displays separate windows and or as pages in the content display area as disclosed herein. Additionally or alternatively in various examples in which the ribbon is hidden the ribbon may be selected and displayed from the menu bar .

The ribbon includes icons corresponding to social network content that may upon selection of the icon cause the display of the content corresponding to the icon . In an example the selection of an icon causes the display of a page in the content display area as disclosed herein. In various alternative examples the selection of an icon may cause the display of other icons such as in the ribbon or elsewhere in the user interface .

In an example various icons A correspond to individual pages that may be displayed in the content display area . Other icons B correspond to categories of social network content. As illustrated icons are organized according to categories . However certain categories have more than a predetermined number of icons A as illustrated the predetermined number is two 2 but it is to be recognized that the predetermined maximum number of icons A per category may be selected to any desirable number. Categories with more than two 2 icons A may thus have a category icon B that causes the display of additional icons A of the category . In an example the selection of the category icon B causes the display of all of the icons A of the category . The display of the additional icons A upon the selection of the category icon B may be in the ribbon or may be elsewhere in the user interface such as a page in the content display area .

The ribbon may be configured to scroll if the total number of icons to be displayed exceeds the space allotted for the ribbon . The scrolling of the ribbon may be conducted according to any of a number of scrolling techniques known in the art. For instance where the client device includes a touchscreen a user may swipe the ribbon in one direction or the other. Where the client device includes a mouse the mouse may be used with a cursor to drag the ribbon or a scroll wheel may similarly be utilized.

In an example the ribbon includes a particular icon and or category as the first icon or category in the ribbon . In such an example the origin of the ribbon places the first icon in the left most position of the ribbon as illustrated and the ribbon cannot be scrolled further to the left. Relatedly another icon may be in the last right most position of the ribbon and the ribbon cannot be scrolled past the right most position. In a different example the ribbon may loop and cycle through the icons in series with the first icon being adjacent to the last icon in the loop.

While the ribbon is illustrated as being horizontal toward the top of the user interface and left to right in the user interface it is to be recognized that the ribbon may be positioned in any of a variety of orientations and locations in the user interface . In an example the ribbon is a vertical orientation from top to bottom. In various examples the ribbon is above the menu bar on the user interface .

The categories may be selected in the first instance and then organized into positions according to various factors. In an example categories are organized according to one or more of past accessing of icons of the category a likelihood in the future of the user accessing icons of the category a user selection or user preference for the ordering of the categories and social network administrator ordering of the categories . Thus a user may initially be presented with categories that are generally popular within the social network and given the option to make a user selection of those and other categories as disclosed herein. Certain factors may override other factors.

In the illustrated example the home category may be placed in a first position A based on a social network administrator ordering that overrides other factors. Thus the home category may always be accessible to a user. It is to be understood that the social network administrator may recognizing multiple categories as being in relatively early positions in the ribbon and may thus order such categories accordingly.

Additional categories may be organized in later positions B according to a default based on pas accessing and or future likelihood of the user of the user interface to access icons of the respective categories. It is recognized that past selection of icons may be indicative of future likelihood to access such icons and that such factors may to an extent be redundant. However interactions by other members of the social network may provide data that indicates that a given user of the user interface may have an increased future likelihood of selecting an icon from a category even though the user has not had a high past selection rate of such icons . For instance the system may note that accessing icons from a certain category is increasing within the social network as a whole and may thus place the category in a higher position within the ribbon .

In an example a first category that has had more previous selections by the user over a given time period than a second category is placed in a earlier position B while a second category that has fewer previous selections is placed in a later position C. The given time period may be selected or modified to increase or decrease a sensitivity to the user s most recent uses of the social network. Thus the time period may be selected ranging from days weeks or months.

A number of times the user has selected icons from a category may be weighted according to other factors or user selection considerations. For instance previous selections may be based on a regularity with which those selections occur. For instance if a user consistently selects an icon from a category every time or most times the user accesses the social network then the category may be placed in an earlier position B than a category that has been accessed approximately the same number of times but inconsistently and not necessarily every time or most times the user accesses the social network. In an example the weight of a category may be reduced by the percentage of time the category is accessed during a session with the social network thus if a category is accessed in only forty 40 percent of sessions then the significance of previous accessing of the category may be reduced by sixty 60 percent.

Previous selections of icons of a category may further be weighted by accessing categories and icons by other users of the social network. Thus if a category is increasing in access generally throughout the social network then the category may be placed in an earlier position B in the ribbon . In an example the weight of a category may be adjusted by a percentage increase or decrease of the accessing of the category in the social network generally over a period of time. Thus if usage of a category in the social network generally is up twenty five 25 percent over a two 2 week period then the category may be weighted twenty five 25 percent higher in positioning the category in the ribbon .

In various examples user ordering of categories may be treated as a weighting of the position of the category . Thus for instance the weight of a category may be doubled if the user selects the category as being of particular interest to the user. Alternatively user ordering of a category may be dispositive over some or all of the other factors. Thus if the user positions a category in a particular position B the user interface or the system generally may not override that positioning. In various examples user ordering does not override all other factors. In an example the social network administrator ordering may not be overridden by the user.

Thus in such an example the user may order categories as the user desires except for changing the position of the home category. In such an example categories that are not deliberately ordered by the administrator and or the user may then be subject to previous selection and likelihood to select. In various examples user ordering may be overridden in the event the user has not accessed the category for a selected period of time. For instance if the user has not accessed a category in three 3 months the category may be treated as no longer being subject to user ordering.

The icons can be organized within the categories according to some or all of the factors described with respect to the categories . Thus icons may be ordered within categories based on user selection previous use and so forth. In various examples as noted above the predetermined number of icons that are highest rated according to the factors described herein are displayed in the ribbon while the other icons of a category are displayed only on selection of the category icon B as disclosed in further detail herein.

The content display area as illustrated includes multiple pages A B C collectively pages . In an example each page is opened upon the selection of a corresponding icon in the ribbon and or a selection from the menu bar . As noted above the ribbon may be applicable without a content display area that may provide multiple pages and the content display area with multiple pages may be utilized without the ribbon . While the ribbon and the pages will be discussed herein with respect to one another it is to be understood that the principles described herein are applicable to other selection of social media content without respect to the ribbon .

As illustrated the pages are layered and superimposed in a graphical stack as their corresponding icons are selected. Thus a page C that was selected first in time among the pages displayed generally is on the bottom of the stack while the pages A B that were selected after the selection of the page C are displayed on top of the page with the most recently selected page A on the top of the stack. If another icon were selected following the display of the page A then a page corresponding to the icon would be displayed over the page A.

Pages which are not on the top of the stack are visible in part though their content is obscured in whole or in part. As illustrated the pages are fully opaque with respect to one another and the content of the lower pages B C is fully or substantially obscured by the pages above them. In various examples the pages may be at least partially transparent or otherwise offset with respect to one another and allow the content of lower pages B C to be visible.

As illustrated the top page A includes a page closing icon . When selected by the user the top page A is removed or otherwise deleted and the page B becomes the top page. In various examples the selection of a lower page B C such as by touching or clicking on a visible portion of the page B C may bring the selected page to the top either by closing or otherwise deleting the pages above the selected page or by placing the selected page on the top of the stack and ahead of the unselected pages .

In various examples the selection of an icon that corresponds to content that is already included in a page e.g. page B may have various effects. In one example the selection of the icon creates a new instance of the same content in a new page that is placed over the page A. Alternatively the selection of the icon may bring the page B to the top of the stack by placing the page B above the page A i.e. by placing the page B above every other page on the stack. Alternatively the selection of the icon may bring the page B to the top of the stack by deleting the page A i.e. by deleting any page above the page corresponding to the icon.

In various examples certain icons may result in different effects on the display of pages . For instance the selection of the home icon may delete all other pages resulting in the display only of the page corresponding to home while the selection of other icons places the corresponding page on the top of the stack. It is to be recognized that the home icon may function the same as other icons or the other icons may have unique functions on selection.

As illustrated the while the ribbon is obscured the content display area does not cover the menu bar . In various alternative examples the content display area may expand to cover or otherwise obscure the menu bar in whole or in part. Further while the content display area is shown as covering the entire ribbon in various examples the ribbon is covered or obscured only in part by the content display area .

The content display area illustrates an alternative arrangement for the pages in contrast to the pages of the content display area . As illustrated in the pages are shown receding into the background the farther down the stack they go thus the page C appears smaller than the pages A and B. As illustrated in the pages are of the same size regardless of which is on top of the stack of pages .

Additionally the pages as illustrated do not include a visible closing icon such as the closing icon of the pages . Thus the pages may be deleted or removed from the user interface by selecting an icon that may delete pages on the user interface such as the home icon above. Additionally or alternatively the pages may include a closing icon that is normally concealed but which may be made visible through a user interaction such as by hovering a cursor over a region that corresponds to the closing icon or by tapping a portion of the page that corresponds to a concealed closing icon. However it is to be understood that the pages may optionally include a visual closing icon in various examples. Additionally or alternatively pages may be removed without interacting with a closing icon such as through a physical gesture such as a swipe.

As illustrated the lowest priority categories are for settings and adding an icon . Such categories may be set to the lowest priority based on administrative ordering as disclosed above. Thus it is noted that in the illustrated example administrative ordering places categories in both the highest and lowest priority positions . However in various examples the administrative ordering does not necessarily place categories in both or either of the high and low priority positions .

Because the ribbon may operate without respect to for instance a client display area the selection of an icon in the ribbon does not necessarily inherently result in the display of associated content in a page. For instance the selection of an icon may cause the related content to be displayed in a dropdown menu a popup window or other location. Further while in examples where the ribbon is incorporated with the content display area the selection of an icon results or may result in the presentation of the content in the content display area it is noted that in examples where settings and adding an icon are included in the menu bar the associated function may appear as a dropdown menu or in another presentation.

The page includes multiple icons that correspond to content that may be displayed in the content display area such as in individual pages . The icons may be all icons that may be available. However all of the icons that may be available may be too many to be practical to be displayed and as such the icons may be a subset of a complete universe of icons. In various examples the subset of icons may be based on search criteria entered by a user may be based on particular categories with which the icons may be displayed in the ribbon may be based on recommended content from the system may be based on content that has been promoted by a sponsoring entity may be based on an advertisement and so forth. In an example when the user selects the icon for adding an icon a list of categories is displayed to the user with which the user may select a category. Icons corresponding to that category may be displayed on the page . The icons may further be searched or subject to some or all of the limiting criteria described above.

The icons may be organized according to some or all of the criteria listed above. Thus recommended or sponsored content may be positioned closer to a top of the page than unsponsored or non recommended icons . Icons that correspond most closely to search criteria may be posited closer to the top of the page than icons that do not meet search criteria or do not meet search criteria as closely.

Selection of an icon may be conducted according to any of a variety of modes. If a user selects the icon by touching clicking or otherwise directly interacting with the icon the icon may be selected and placed in the ribbon according to the criteria disclosed herein. A user may be prompted for confirmation that the icon is to be added to the ribbon . Alternatively an icon may be selected by for instance dragging the icon to the ribbon . In such an example the dragging act may place the icon in a particular location in the ribbon based on a location in the ribbon to which the user drags the icon .

The social network content item includes a title space a content space and a state button . The title space may include a title and or other identifying indicator for the social network content item such as an author or posting entity a date and or time at which the content item was posted and other information that may be useful to a user. The content space includes content such as text images videos links and the like that may be found in social media content generally or that may come to be displayed in social media content in the future. The content space may be sufficiently large to display the text images etc. and may be variable based on the total content to be displayed.

The state button may be a soft button a link a hot spot or other mechanism by which a user input may be received by the system . The state button may expand and contract the content item . The base state for the content item may be in a contracted state in which the content space occupies no more space than the contracted content space and the social network content item as a whole occupies no more space than the contracted social media content space .

The content space may thus display only a sub portion of the total content that may be displayed in the content space . For instance if the content includes three paragraphs the contracted content space may be large enough for only one paragraph or less. In various examples the contracted content space is the same for all content items that may be displayed e.g. on a single page . In such an example the content of each social network content item may be truncated indiscriminately to only display an amount of content sufficient to fill the contracted content space and no more. In various alternative examples the content may be truncated according to various criteria for instance to display a complete sentence or paragraph or other conventional grammatical demarcation or to display a designated summary or other contracted content as may be provided for instance by an entity which generated the social network content item . In such an example the size of the contracted content space may vary between and among social network content items in a single content display area .

Upon selection of the state button the content item may be expanded to the full size of the content item as displayed. The expansion of the content item may be animated from the contracted to expanded states or may simply jump from contracted to expanded. Selection of the state button when the content item is in the expanded state may transition the content item to the contracted state.

In a content display area is illustrated that displays on a user input social network content items A B C each in a contracted state.

In upon a user selecting the state button B the social network content item B expands moving the social network content item C out of the content display area .

In the user scrolls the content display area up so that the social network content item B is no longer displayed on the user interface. After the social network content item B scrolls off the content display area the social network content item B automatically reverts to the contracted state so that if and when the content display area is scrolled so that the social network content item B is back to being displayed the social network content item B is in the contracted state.

It is to be understood that the placing of the social network content item B in the contracted state may not occur unless the social network content item B is actually displayed on the content display area again. Thus the system may not process the contraction of the social network content item B until the social network content item B is to be displayed again. In various examples however the contraction of the social network content item B is illustrated graphically in the content display area . In one such example as the social network content item B is scrolling off the screen the contraction of the social network content item B is illustrated for instance with an animation of the social network content item B contracting from the expanded state to the contracted state.

Automatic contraction of the social network content item B may be generally understood to be based on no longer displaying the social network content item B from the content display area such as by scrolling the content item B off of the content display area . Partial removal of the social network content item B from the content display area may qualify to automatically contract the content item B. For instance if the content item B as expanded is scrolled off of the content display area so that only the contracted content space is displayed then the content item B may be contracted. The content item B may be partially contracted such as a circumstance where part of the content space is scrolled off of the content display area in which case the content item B may be contracted only as much as has scrolled off of the content display area . Various alternative contracting mechanisms are contemplated.

In the user scrolls the content display area up so that the social network content item B is again displayed. As noted above because the social network content item B was expanded and then scrolled of the content display area the social network content item B as displayed is in the contracted state. A user may return the social network content item B to the expanded state by selecting the state button B as described above.

In the background has an area . The graphic is increased uniformly to occupy an area at least approximately as large as the area of the background in all dimensions.

In the graphic is blurred to create a blurred graphic . The graphic may be blurred to any of a variety of degrees and according to a variety of methods. In an example the graphic is blurred to a 25 px radius though various degrees of blurriness are contemplated.

In the color is overlaid on the blurred graphic . In various examples the color is overlaid to a predetermined opacity. In an example the opacity is approximately forty 40 percent. In various alternative examples the opacity may be increased or decreased depending on a desired dominance of the color as overlaid.

The color overlaid may be selected according to a variety of criteria. In an example the color overlaid is selected based on color sampling of the graphic and or the blurred graphic . In an example the color as overlaid may be a dominant color of the graphic and or the blurred graphic . The dominant color may be determined by for instance an analysis of some or all of the pixels of the graphic and or blurred graphic . In such an example a color represented by the most pixels may be selected as the overlay color. In various alternative examples an overlay color may be selected on the basis of any of a variety of color sampling techniques known in the art or that may be developed.

In various alternative overlay color selections the color may be selected based on a user selection. For instance a user may view the graphic and or the blurred graphic and select a color that the user prefers to pair with the graphic such as based on a primary color of the graphic a complimentary color to the graphic and the like. Alternatively a user may select an overlay color without respect to the graphic .

In various examples the overlay color may be selected to be unique to an entity corresponding to the graphic and or the icon generally. For instance a company that has multiple icons may select or be associated with a common overlay color. In such an example each background may be generated by blurring the graphic with which it is associated and then have the overlay color corresponding to the associated entity applied to create the final background .

At operation a content selection display area is displayed with a processor via a network interface device on a user interface. The content selection display area includes a plurality of subject matter categories and a plurality of icons at least some of the plurality of icons being individually associated with at least one of the subject matter categories and at least some of the categories being associated with at least one of the plurality of icons. Each category is associated with at most a predetermined number of the plurality of icons.

In an example the content selection display area is a ribbon wherein the ribbon is scrollable to display all of the plurality of icons. In an example the categories correspond to positions within the content selection display area wherein a position of a first one of the plurality of categories is fixed and wherein a position of a second one of the plurality of categories is variable. In an example the variable position is based at least in part on a user selection and a likelihood of a user accessing an icon associated with the second one of the plurality of categories. In an example the first one of the plurality of icons is fixed in an earliest one of the positions.

At operation a content display area is displayed with the processor on the user interface the content display area configured to display content corresponding to at least one of the plurality of icons as selected in the content selection display area.

At operation additional icons related to one of the plurality of categories is displayed based on a user selection. In an example the displaying the additional icons is in the content display area.

At operation multiple ones of the plurality of categories are organized in variable positions according to user selection and according to a likelihood of accessing the icon. In an example the user selection has a higher priority than the likelihood.

At operation the plurality of icons are organized into the plurality of categories based at least in part on common subject matter associated with the plurality of icons

At operation a content display area is displayed using a processor via a network interface device on a user interface the content display area configured to display a plurality of pages wherein at least one of the plurality of pages is displayed based on a user selection and at least one of the pages being displayed without respect to a user selection.

At operation the plurality of pages are formed with the processor into a stack with respect to one another a newly selected one of the plurality of pages being displayed on a top of the stack and an oldest selected one of the plurality of pages being displayed on a bottom of the stack ones of the plurality of pages not on the top of the stack being displayed only in part. In an example displaying the plurality of pages makes each one of the plurality of pages visible in the content display area. In an example each one of the plurality of pages includes social media content wherein only social media content relating to the top one of the plurality of pages is visible.

At operation one of the plurality of pages is closed by removing the at least one of the plurality of pages from the stack. In an example if the at least one of the plurality of pages is displayed on the top of the stack an immediately lower one of the plurality of pages on the stack is subsequently displayed on the top of the stack. In an example the plurality of pages are selectable and closing one of the plurality of pages comprises selecting one of the plurality of pages not on the top of the stack to close ones of the plurality of pages above the one of the plurality of pages as selected. In an example one of the plurality of pages is a permanent page that is not closeable and closing of non permanent pages in the stack is based on selection of the permanent page.

At operation a content selection display area is displayed with the processor on the user interface the content selection display area being configured to display a plurality of icons. In an example displaying one of the plurality of pages is based on selection of a corresponding one of the plurality of icons. In an example at least some of the plurality of pages corresponds to ones of the plurality of icons.

At operation displaying based on a selection of one of the plurality of icons one of the plurality of pages that is currently displayed causes the one of the plurality of pages to be displayed at the top of the stack. In an example displaying the one of the plurality of pages at the top of the stack includes closing ones of the plurality of pages above the one of the plurality of pages on the stack. In an example displaying the one of the plurality of pages at the top of the stack includes creating on the top of the stack a second instance of the one of the plurality of pages. In an example displaying the one of the plurality of pages at the top of the stack includes moving the one of the plurality of pages to the top of the stack.

At operation a blurred form of a graphic is generated based on the graphic. In an example the blurred form of the graphic includes blurring the graphic to a 25 px radius. In an example generating the background is based on the graphic being increased in size. In an example the processor is configured to increase the size of the graphic so that the graphic as increased in size is at least as large as the background in length and width.

At operation a most commonly occurring color of the graphic is determined based on a comparison of at least some of the pixels of the graphic.

At operation an icon is generated with a processor the icon including a graphic and a background based at least in part on a blurred form of the graphic and an overlay color. In an example the overlay color is based on a most commonly occurring color in the graphic. In an example the overlay color is based on a user selection. In an example the icon is one of a plurality of icons at least one other one of the plurality of icons being related to the icon and the icon and the one other one of the plurality of icons have a common overlay color. In an example the overlay color has an opacity. In an example the opacity is approximately forty 40 percent.

At operation a user interface is caused with a processor coupled to a network interface device to display a newsfeed including social network content items the newsfeed being configured to scroll to display ones of the social network content items on the user interface and at least one of the social network content items includes a title and content.

At operation a state button is provided by the processor on the user interface corresponding to the social network content items and configured to switch the at least one social network content item between the expanded state and contracted state upon a user selection of the state button.

At operation a social network content item is switched between the expanded state and the contracted state with an animation transitioning between the expanded state and the contracted state.

At operation at least one of the social network content items is configured in an expanded state corresponding to displaying all of the content of the social network content item upon a user selection. In an example the at least one social network content item occupies a first linear space in the newsfeed in the expanded state and a second linear space in the newsfeed in the contracted state the first linear space being greater than the second linear space. In an example multiple ones of the social network content items are separately configurable in the expanded and contracted states and each social network content item in the contracted state occupies the second linear space. In an example the multiple ones of the social network content items have different first linear spaces in the expanded state.

At operation upon switching a first one of the social network content items from the contracted state to the expanded state shifting a second one of the social network content items lower on the newsfeed than the first one of the social network content items shifts lower in the newsfeed to create space to display the content of the first social network content item

At operation the newsfeed is scrolled so that the at least one social network content item is not displayed on the user interface.

At operation when the at least one social network content item is in the expanded state switching with the processor the social network content item from the expanded state to the contracted state when the at least one social network content item is scrolled off of the user interface. In an example switching the social network content item includes switching the at least one social network content item to the contracted state as the social network content item is scrolled off of the user interface. In an example switching the social network content item includes switching the at least one social network content item to the contracted state with an animation transitioning from the expanded state to the contracted state.

At operation the newsfeed is scrolled so that the at least one social network content item is displayed on the user interface the at least one social network content item being displayed in a contracted state corresponding to displaying a sub portion of the content.

The machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC or any suitable combination thereof a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The machine may further include a graphics display e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The machine may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored the instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the processor e.g. within the processor s cache memory or both during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the main memory and the processor may be considered as machine readable media. The instructions may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. software for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processor cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory an optical medium a magnetic medium or any suitable combination thereof.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented a processor being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an application program interface API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

In Example 1 a system includes a network interface device communicatively coupled to a user interface and a processor coupled to the network interface device configured to cause the user interface to display a newsfeed including social network content items the newsfeed being configured to scroll to display ones of the social network content items on the user interface. At least one of the social network content items includes a title and content. The at least one social network content item is configurable in an expanded state corresponding to displaying all of the content of the social network content item upon a user selection and a contracted state corresponding to displaying a sub portion of the content. The newsfeed is configured to display the social network content items in the contracted state upon the social network content item scrolling onto the user interface without respect to the social network content item being in an expanded state when previously displayed.

In Example 2 the system of Example 1 optionally further includes that when the at least one social network content item is in the expanded state the processor is configured to switch the social network content item from the expanded state to the contracted state when the at least one social network content item is scrolled off of the user interface.

In Example 3 the system of and one or more of Examples 1 and 2 optionally further includes that the processor is configured to switch the at least one social network content item to the contracted state as the social network content item is scrolled off of the user interface.

In Example 4 the system of and one or more of Examples 1 3 optionally further includes that the processor is configured to switch the at least one social network content item to the contracted state with an animation transitioning from the expanded state to the contracted state.

In Example 5 the system of and one or more of Examples 1 4 optionally further includes that the processor is further configured to provide on the user interface a state button corresponding to the social network content items and configured to switch the at least one social network content item between the expanded state and contracted state upon a user selection of the state button.

In Example 6 the system of and one or more of Examples 1 5 optionally further includes that the processor is further configured to switch the at least one social network content item between the expanded state and the contracted state with an animation transitioning between the expanded state and the contracted state.

In Example 7 the system of and one or more of Examples 1 6 optionally further includes that the at least one social network content item occupies a first linear space in the newsfeed in the expanded state and a second linear space in the newsfeed in the contracted state the first linear space being greater than the second linear space.

In Example 8 the system of and one or more of Examples 1 7 optionally further includes that multiple ones of the social network content items are separately configurable in the expanded and contracted states and wherein each social network content item in the contracted state occupies the second linear space.

In Example 9 the system of and one or more of Examples 1 8 optionally further includes that the multiple ones of the social network content items have different first linear spaces in the expanded state.

In Example 10 the system of and one or more of Examples 1 9 optionally further includes that upon shifting a first one of the social network content items from the contracted state to the expanded state a second one of the social network content items lower on the newsfeed than the first one of the social network content items shifts lower in the newsfeed to create space to display the content of the first social network content item.

In Example 11 a method includes causing with a processor coupled to a network interface device a user interface to display a newsfeed including social network content items the newsfeed being configured to scroll to display ones of the social network content items on the user interface wherein at least one of the social network content items includes a title and content configuring with the processor at least one of the social network content items in an expanded state corresponding to displaying all of the content of the social network content item upon a user selection responsive to a first scrolling input received form the user interface displaying the newsfeed so that the at least one social network content item is not displayed on the user interface and then responsive to a second scrolling input received from the user interface displaying the newsfeed so that the at least one social network content item is displayed on the user interface the at least one social network content item being displayed in a contracted state corresponding to displaying a sub portion of the content.

In Example 12 the method of Example 11 optionally further includes when the at least one social network content item is in the expanded state switching with the processor the social network content item from the expanded state to the contracted state when the at least one social network content item is scrolled off of the user interface.

In Example 13 the method of any one or more of Examples 11 and 12 optionally further includes that switching the social network content item includes switching the at least one social network content item to the contracted state as the social network content item is scrolled off of the user interface.

In Example 14 the method of any one or more of Examples 11 13 optionally further includes that switching the social network content item includes switching the at least one social network content item to the contracted state with an animation transitioning from the expanded state to the contracted state.

In Example 15 the method of any one or more of Examples 11 14 optionally further includes providing with the processor a state button on the user interface corresponding to the social network content items and configured to switch the at least one social network content item between the expanded state and contracted state upon a user selection of the state button.

In Example 16 the method of any one or more of Examples 11 15 optionally further includes switching with the processor the at least one social network content item between the expanded state and the contracted state with an animation transitioning between the expanded state and the contracted state.

In Example 17 the method of any one or more of Examples 11 16 optionally further includes that the at least one social network content item occupies a first linear space in the newsfeed in the expanded state and a second linear space in the newsfeed in the contracted state the first linear space being greater than the second linear space.

In Example 18 the method of any one or more of Examples 11 17 optionally further includes that multiple ones of the social network content items are separately configurable in the expanded and contracted states and wherein each social network content item in the contracted state occupies the second linear space.

In Example 19 the method of any one or more of Examples 11 18 optionally further includes that the multiple ones of the social network content items have different first linear spaces in the expanded state.

In Example 20 the method of any one or more of Examples 11 19 optionally further includes upon switching a first one of the social network content items from the contracted state to the expanded state shifting a second one of the social network content items lower on the newsfeed than the first one of the social network content items shifts lower in the newsfeed to create space to display the content of the first social network content item.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or any suitable combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information. Furthermore unless specifically stated otherwise the terms a or an are herein used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one instance. Finally as used herein the conjunction or refers to a non exclusive or unless specifically stated otherwise.

