---

title: Single login procedure for accessing social network information across multiple external systems
abstract: A social networking system contains information describing users of the social network and various connections among the users. A user can access multiple external systems that communicate with the social networking system to access information about the users of the social networking system. Login status of the user account on the social networking system is maintained. If the login status of the user account on the social networking system indicates that the user is not logged in, the user is required to provide authentication information. If the login status of the user account indicates that the user is logged in, social network information is provided to the user via an external system, subject to the privacy settings of users of the social networking system. If the user logs out from an external system, the user is also logged out from the social networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09306927&OS=09306927&RS=09306927
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09306927
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140506
---
This invention relates to social networking and in particular to accessing information from a social network across multiple external systems outside of the social network.

A system such as a website that allows users to interact with the system typically stores a record for each users of the system. These records may comprise information provided by the user as well as information gathered by the system related to activities or actions of the user on the system. For example a system may require a user to enter information such as contact information gender preferences interests and the like in an initial interaction with the system which is stored in the user s record. A user s activities on the system such as frequency of access of particular information on the system also provide information that can be stored in the user s record. The system may then use information provided by the user and information gathered about the user to constantly customize interactions of the system with the user. For example a website selling books may keep track of a users previous purchases and provide the user with information on related books during subsequent interactions with the system. Information in a user s profile may also be used by the system to target advertisements that are of interest to the user. Using information collected from and about users results in a system that is more efficient and beneficial for both the user and the system.

However prior systems including websites lack the ability to use information associated with a user s social connections or activities to customize and or personalize the user s experience while using the system. Access to information about the user s social interactions and or the activities of a user s social connections e.g. friends family co workers etc. improves the user s experience while using the system and increases the chance that the user will use the system in the future. For example users visiting a website that sells books may be interested in books that their social connections have looked at book reviews or comments provided by their social connections and other social network information that might inform their purchases of book from the website. The system itself also benefits because it can leverage information about the user and the user s social connections to more accurately determine what a user might be interested in. Such a system can use social network information to customize a user s experience and target products services and or advertisements to the user.

Typical systems do not possess sufficient information about a user s social connections to customize the user s experience or effectively target advertising to the user. Assembling enough information about a user s social connections for these purposes requires a system to interact with a large number of users over an extended period of time. The majority of websites will not have the resources expertise or user base required to build and maintain a system of the scale necessary to capture organize and maintain a sufficient amount of information about users social connections and their activities. Thus users of these systems will have an inferior experience and the customization personalization provided by these sites is unlikely to accurately take into account or reflect information about the user s social connections and their activities.

Even if the problems described above were solved so that multiple other systems or websites were able to track and manage a user s social connections this would lead to additional problems that would have to be solved. For example to access social information in multiple systems a user may be required to provide authentication for each system that the user accesses. The information required to authenticate at each system can be different requiring the user to keep track of the authentication information for each system thus further reducing the quality of the user experience.

In addition to maintaining information provided by a user and information about a user s activities on the system a social networking system also maintains information related to a user s social connections. Information collected by a social networking system about its users is referred to herein as social network information. Social network information can be highly valuable to an external system that does not or cannot maintain such information about its users. Embodiments of the invention allow multiple external systems to access social network information while also providing a mechanism for managing the login status of a user of these multiple systems. This frees users from the need to maintain authentication information separately for each external system and allows external systems to leverage social network information for various purposes.

Embodiments present computer implemented methods and systems for accessing social network information across multiple external systems. A social networking system maintains login status associated with a user account for a user of the social networking system. A request for social network information associated with the user account is received. The social network information is requested for use by an external system. The social networking system determines the login status of the user account associated with the request. If the login status of the user account indicates that the user is not logged in the user is required to input authentication information for the user account. On the other hand if the login status indicates that the user is logged into the social networking system a response including social networking information is sent to the requestor without requiring the user to input authentication information for the user account.

If the user responds with correct authentication information the login status of the user account is changed to indicate that the user is logged in and the social networking system responds to the request with the social network information. In an embodiment the user sends a request to link external systems to the user account on the social networking system. If a determination is made that the user account of the external system is not connected to the user account of the social networking service an interface is displayed to the user allowing the user to link the two accounts. Accordingly once the user provides correct authentication information to access an external system the user is logged into all the external systems that are linked to the user account of the social networking system.

In an embodiment the request for information is obtained directly from an external system. Alternatively the request for information is received from a client device that is processing a markup language document received from an external system. In an embodiment the social networking system sends a subset of the requested information subject to privacy settings of users of the social networking system. In another embodiment the social networking system sends the requested information along with the privacy settings of relevant users of the social networking system to an external system. The external system enforces the privacy settings of the users of the social networking system in order to ensure that a user who is not allowed to access some information in the social networking system is not allowed to access the same information via the external system. In an embodiment if the user requests to log out from an external system the social networking system updates the login status of the user account to indicate that the user is logged out. Accordingly the user is logged out from all the external systems linked to the social networking system and needs to provide authentication information to log back into any of the external systems.

The features and advantages described in this summary and the following detailed description are not all inclusive. Many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social networking system. Users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Systems outside of the social networking system called external systems can access information available in the social networking system. Users of the external system can be users of a social networking system. The external system can access information from the social networking system using an Application Programming Interface API associated with or provided by the social networking system. Alternatively the external system can send a markup language document to the client device with instructions for interacting with the social networking system. The external system may use the information obtained from the social networking system for various purposes.

An external system can have several users that interact with the system and a user can interact with multiple external systems . An external system may interact with the social networking system to retrieve information available in the social networking system . The user can also directly interact with the social networking system . A user can link an account on an external system with the user s account on the social networking system . A user can also link an external system with the user s account on the social networking system by providing details of the external system to the social networking system . In this scenario the user may not have an account on the external system . If an external system is not linked to the user account of social networking system a request may be sent to the user to link the two accounts. The request may present an interface to the user allowing the user to input authentication information. If the user successfully provides the authentication information the external system is linked to the social networking system . If a user links an external system with the user s account on the social networking system the social networking system stores information related to the external system including the users activities on the external system along with the account of the social networking system . The information related to linked external systems stored by the social networking system is used in an embodiment by the social networking system to facilitate the process of the user logging into multiple external systems and can also be used for other purposes including to customize or enhance the user s experience on the social networking system to target advertisements etc. . In an embodiment the login status of all the external system linked to the social networking system is treated as the same. Accordingly if a user logs into any one of the external systems the login status for all the external systems that have been linked by the user with the account on the social networking system is assumed to be logged in. Similarly if the user logs out of any one of these external systems the login status for all the external systems is assumed to be logged out. The login status for all the linked external systems is stored in the social networking system .

In an embodiment the social networking system maintains a login status of the user in the user account when the user logs into any of the external systems . If the user is not logged into any of the external system the login status of the user indicates not logged in. If the user attempts to access social network information from an external system the user is requested to provide authentication information for the social networking system . If the user successfully authenticates the login status of the user in the social networking system is changed to logged in. If the user attempts to access any other external system for example external system the login status of the user in the social networking system is checked. If the login status of the user is determined to be logged in the user is allowed access to the external system . Hence the user is able to access social network information from multiple external systems by authenticating into the social networking system once.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the external system can access social networking system information or provide information to the social networking system using an Application Programming Interface API associated with or provided by the social networking system . Alternatively an external system may send a markup language document to the client device with instructions for accessing the social networking system . The client device processes the instructions in the markup language document and accesses the social networking system for either providing information or retrieving information. The external system may obtain information from the social networking system for various purposes. For example the external system may present activities of a user s connections on the external system to the user. The external system may also send information related to the user s activities performed on the external system to the social networking system . For example information related to purchases made by a user on an external system may be sent to the social networking system. The information related to purchases made by the user in the external system can be made available to connections of the user in the social network as a form of social advertisement.

The social networking system maintains information about connections among its users. As used herein the term connection refers to any other user whether an individual or other entity of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system. Connections may be added explicitly by a user or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . Connections in social networks can be one or two way connections. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connected to each other in the website Bob and Joe have a two way connection. If Bob is interested in learning more information about Joe but there is not a reciprocal connection a one way connection may be formed with Bob being connected to Joe but Joe not being connected to Bob. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social network allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections. The social networking system keeps a record of information for each user and the connections among the users. The record of users and their connections in the social networking system may be called a social graph. 

The client devices comprise one or more computing devices that can receive user input and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the client devices may be desktop computers laptop computers smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The client devices are configured to communicate via network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems.

The social networking system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking system stores user information in user accounts store for example user profile information including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like. The social networking system further stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example these user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more client devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. In some embodiments the web server may be used for communicating with the external system . For example requests sent by the external system can be received by the web server and processed. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging technique.

The API request server allows external websites to access information from the social networking system by calling APIs. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to social networking website by calling APIs. An external system sends an API request to the social networking system via the network . The API request is received at the social networking system by the API request server . The API request server processes the request by calling the appropriate program code to collect any appropriate response which is then communicated back to the external system via the network . In an embodiment the web server receives a request and calls the API server in order to process the request. The information based on the response from the API server is sent in response to the request received by the web server . A device that does not communicate with the web server can communicate directly with the API request server to obtain information.

The authorization server enforces the privacy settings of the users of the social networking system. The privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. The entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information photos videos links text entries phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and any other information maintained by the social networking system that is associates with the user. Systems and methods for allowing an external system to access information in a social networking system using APIs that enforce privacy settings defined in the social networking system are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 324 761 filed Nov. 26 2008 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Systems and methods for allowing users to control accessibility of content in a social networking system is disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 485 856 filed on Jun. 16 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Systems and methods for providing privacy settings for applications associated with a user profile are disclosed in Ser. No. 12 154 886 filed on May 27 2008 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As discussed above the social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To this end the user accounts store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user account store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile the login status of a user and the user accounts in external systems that are linked to a corresponding account in the social networking system . When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a member of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user account in the user account store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The web server of the external system links the external system via the network to one or more client devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The content presented to the client device is stored in the content store . In some embodiments the web server may be used for interacting with the social networking system . For example requests and responses sent by the social networking system can be received by the web server for processing.

The external system maintains a user accounts store to maintain data associated with accounts of users of the external system . The user accounts store may store information associated with a user including user name and password as well as other information relevant to the external system . For example email address mailing address and billing information. In some embodiments the external system can also store additional information including user actions or interests or any other information gathered by the external system associated with user.

The external system requests authentication information from the client device . In an embodiment the request presents an interface to the user allowing the user to input authentication information for the social networking system for example a username and password. The interface presented to the user on the client device can be a popup window. In an embodiment the username and password requested are for the user account of the user stored in the user accounts store in the social networking system . The user interface presented to the user may explicitly display information to the user indicating that the user is logging into the social networking system by presenting a uniform resource locator URL of the social networking system .

The authentication information provided by the user is sent by the external system to the social networking system . If the user provides the correct authentication information the user is logged into the social networking system and the login status of the user s account in the user account store is set to logged in. If the user successfully logs into the social networking system social network information requested by the external system is sent to external system . The external system sends the information requested by the client device to the client device . In an embodiment the information sent by the social networking system is a subset of the requested information determined based on the privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . In another embodiment the external system may use the social network information to determine content from the external system that is sent to the client device . In another embodiment the external system may perform some processing based on the social network information received but may not send any information to the client device in response.

In an embodiment the user has an account stored in the user accounts store of the external system which has different authentication information compared to the user account stored in the user accounts store in the social networking system . The user can send information to the social networking system linking the user account in the external system with the user account in the social networking system . If the user account in the external system is linked with the user account in the social networking system the external system is considered to be linked to the user account in the social networking system . In an embodiment the user is allowed to link the external system to the user account in the social networking system for example if the user does not have an account in the external system . If an external system is linked to the user account in the social networking system the user may be presented with a user interface that allows the user to enter authentication information. When the user successfully presents the required information for authentication the user is automatically logged into the social networking system thereby changing the login status of the user account stored in the user accounts store to logged in. If the two accounts are not linked together the user is presented with a user interface to link the two accounts by inputting authentication information for the two accounts for example the usernames and passwords of the two accounts.

In an embodiment the user may not have an account that is stored on the external system . Based on the information provided to the external system the external system determines that the user has an account with the social networking system . In one embodiment the external system can determine if the user has an account on the social networking system by communicating with the social networking system . In one embodiment the client device checks a session cookie associated with the social networking system on the client device that indicates that the user has an account on the social networking system. The session cookie may also indicate whether the user is currently logged into the social networking system. Alternatively the markup language document sent by external system to the client device can cause the client device to send a request to the social networking system to determine if the user has an account on the social networking system. In another embodiment the external system directly sends a request to the social networking system using APIs provided by the social networking system to determine if the user has an account on the social networking system. The session created by the user with the external system is treated as an account even though no account is explicitly created by the external system for the user. In one embodiment the user may provide input indicating that the user has an account on the social networking system . For example a browser link or a user interface button may be provided on the external system to allow the user to indicate that the user has an account in the social networking system . The user clicks on the browser link or the user interface button to indicate that the user has an account on the social networking system and would like to link the session with the external system to the account in the social networking system . Accordingly multiple sessions created by the user on different external systems can execute the process shown in for interacting with the social networking system without requiring the user to provide authentication information separately for each session. In an embodiment if the user does not have an explicit account stored on the external system an explicit account can be automatically created on the external system based on the information obtained from the social networking system. This allows creation of account on the external system for use by the external system without requiring the user to enter various details required to create the account.

When the user is logged into the social networking system the user can send a request for information to another external system . If the external system determines a need for social network information the external system requests the social network information from the social networking system . The request may be an API call to the API request server . If the social networking system determines that the user account for the user of the client device has a login status logged in the social networking system sends the requested social network information to the external system . In an embodiment the information sent by the social networking system is a subset of the requested information determined based on the privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . The external system sends the information requested to the client device . In an embodiment the external system processes the information to combine the social network information with information available in the external system and sends the combined information to the client device . In another embodiment information obtained from the social networking system is not sent to the client device but instead used for processing to determine information that may be subsequently displayed to the user. In another embodiment social networking system information may be used to determine whether specific content from the external system is displayed to the user or not. For example the age of a user obtained from the social network may be used to determine of specific content can be displayed to the user or not. Alternatively activities performed by the user in the social networking system may be used to determine the content displayed to the user. For example a member active in particular social groups may be displayed content determined based on the members activities.

The social networking system checks the login status of the user account stored in the user accounts store of the social networking system . If the social networking system determines that the login status of user account indicates that the user is not logged in the social networking system sends a request for authentication information to the client device . In an embodiment the request presents an interface to the user allowing the user to input authentication information for the social networking system for example the username and password. The interface presented to the user on the client device can be a popup window. The authentication information presented by the user is sent to the social networking system . If the user presents the correct authentication information the user is logged into the social networking system and the login status of the user s account in the user account store is set to logged in. If the user successfully logs into the social networking system social network information requested by the external system is sent to the client device . The client device uses the social network information to render the markup language document for display. In an embodiment markup language document includes instructions to process the information obtained from the social networking system determine the information rendered for display. For example the information obtained from the social networking system may be combined with content from the external system in order to present a combination of the information. Alternatively the information obtained from the social networking system may be used to determine which content from the external system is displayed on the client device .

The user accesses an external system using the client device after the access to the external system described above resulting in the user getting logged into the social networking system . The client device sends a request for information to the external system . The external system sends a markup language document to the client device . The client device processes the markup language document. The markup language document contains instructions for the client device to access the social networking system for social network information used for rendering the markup language document for display. The processing of the instructions in the markup language document causes client device to send a request for social network information to the social networking system . In an embodiment the request is sent to the web server of the social networking system . The social networking system determines that the login status of the user account stored in the user accounts store of the social networking system is logged in. Accordingly the social networking system does not require any authentication from the user and sends the requested social network information to the client device . The information sent by the social networking system may be determined based on the privacy settings of the users of the social networking system .

In an embodiment a subset of the social network information requested may be sent by the social networking system based on privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . For example the privacy settings may restrict the information that an external system is allowed to access. The social network information provided to the external system is the subset of the requested information that the external system is allowed to access based on the user s privacy settings. Furthermore the social network information requested may be information associated with the connections of the user in the social networking system . The subset of social network information provided to the external system is determined based on the privacy settings of the user as well as the privacy settings of the user s connections in the social networking system . The enforcement of the privacy settings ensures that a user who is not allowed to see specific information associated with another user within the social networking system is not allowed to see the same information outside of the social networking system context for example using an external system .

In an embodiment the privacy settings are not enforced by the social networking system and the information requested by an external system is sent by the social networking system to the external system along with the privacy setting information of the members of the social networking system. The external system enforces the privacy settings information of the members of the social networking system and makes sure that a user who is not allowed to see specific information within the social networking system is not allowed to see the same information in the external system. In another embodiment specific types of privacy settings may be enforced by the social networking system whereas other types of privacy setting information may be communicated to the external system and enforced by the external system. In an embodiment corresponding to social networking system sends the information requested by the client device along with the privacy setting information of the members of the social networking system. The markup language document processed by the client device includes instructions to enforce privacy settings of users of the social network. The client device enforce privacy settings while rendering the markup language document in order to male sure that only the information allowed to the user in the social networking system is displayed on the client device.

An embodiment in which the external systems are websites a browser redirect mechanism may be used for or sending the request from the client device to the social networking system . A redirect mechanism that does not present the details of the redirect for example the address of the social networking system provides a better user experience. In embodiments where the external system and social networking system are websites a hidden frame redirect may be used for sending the request for social network information or for sending the authentication information from the client device to the social networking system . The hidden frame redirect provides a better user experience compared to a redirect that explicitly displays the request sent to the social networking system in the user interface such as a browser redirect that displays the URL of the website being redirected to. The hidden frame redirect does not display the URL of the website being redirected to making the redirect process transparent to the user and may also provide improved performance compared to an explicit browser redirect.

Another embodiment uses instructions provided in a scripting language that can be executed on the client device for sending the request for social network information or for sending the authentication information from the client device to the social networking system . An example of a scripting language that can be used for a client device is the JAVASCRIPT language. In another embodiment the markup language document contains custom tags that can be interpreted by a scripting engine using a custom tag library. The custom tags provide the instructions necessary for the client device to send the request for social network information or to send the authentication information from the client device to the social networking system .

In one embodiment the request for authentication information sent by the social networking system includes security questions to the user based on social network information associated with the user available on the social networking system . The security question may be based on social network information associated with the connections of the user available on the social networking system . The security question based on social network information associated with the user is called a social CAPTCHA an acronym for Completely Automated Turing Test To Tell Computers and Humans Apart . The user is successfully authenticated by the social networking system if the user provides correct answers to one or more security questions presented to the user. For example a social CAPTCHA may ask the user a question that requires the question to know the profile status that the user posted on the social networking system or an action taken by the user on the social networking system . A social CAPTCHA may ask a member of a social network to identify an image of one of the member s connections in the social network. In some embodiments the rigorousness of the security questions may be determined based on suspiciousness of the session requesting information. Systems and methods for presenting social CAPTCHA are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 399 723 filed Mar. 6 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A user can send a log out message to an external system for logging out from the external system . In an embodiment when the user logs out from any one of the external systems linked with the social networking system the user is logged out from the social networking system . If the user logs out from an external system a request is sent to the social networking system to update the login status of the user s account in the social networking system to not logged in. As a result the user is logged out of the social networking system and is considered logged out from all external systems linked to the social networking system. Subsequently if the user attempts to access information from any external system the user is requested to input authentication information again so as to log into the social networking system . The request to log out from the social networking system may be sent to the social networking system by the external system using APIs of the social networking system . Alternatively external system can send a markup language document to the client device in response to the request to logout form the external system . The markup language document can contain instructions that when executed by the client device cause the client device to send the request to the social networking system for logging out from the social networking system .

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave where the computer data signal includes any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein. The computer data signal is a product that is presented in a tangible medium or carrier wave and modulated or otherwise encoded in the carrier wave which is tangible and transmitted according to any suitable transmission method.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

