---

title: Presentation systems and related methods
abstract: A videoconferencing system includes a codec configured to generate one or more acknowledgement signals, a remote control for controlling the codec, a system controller in communication with the codec, and at least one other videoconferencing component. The system controller is configured to send one or more commands to the other videoconferencing component in response to the one or more acknowledgement signals generated by the codec. Other videoconferencing systems and presentation systems and related methods are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462225&OS=09462225&RS=09462225
owner: ZELLER DIGITAL INNOVATIONS, INC.
number: 09462225
owner_city: Normal
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 794 805 filed Mar. 15 2013. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to presentation systems including videoconferencing systems and related methods.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

This section provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure a videoconferencing system includes a codec configured to generate one or more acknowledgement signals a remote control for controlling the codec a system controller in communication with the codec and at least one other videoconferencing component. The system controller is configured to send one or more commands to the other videoconferencing component in response to the one or more acknowledgement signals generated by the codec.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a method for a user to control a videoconferencing system is disclosed. The method includes controlling the system using only a remote control configured for controlling a codec. The remote control may be configured for controlling only the codec.

According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure a presentation system includes a presentation switch having an input for connecting a presentation source a system controller in communication with the presentation switch and at least one other presentation component. The presentation switch is configured to generate one or more acknowledgement signals. The system controller is configured to send one or more commands to the other presentation component or the presentation switch in response to receiving the one or more acknowledgement signals generated by the presentation switch.

Further aspects and areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. It should be understood that various aspects of this disclosure may be implemented individually or in combination with one or more other aspects. It should also be understood that the description and specific examples herein are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. In some example embodiments well known processes well known device structures and well known technologies are not described in detail.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms may be only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Terms such as first second and other numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the context. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.

Spatially relative terms such as inner outer beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the example term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

Although multiple other videoconferencing components are shown in only one other videoconferencing component may be used in any given implementation of these teachings.

The codec preferably issues one or more acknowledgement signals each time a predefined action or event occurs. For example when the codec is powered on it issues an acknowledgment signal indicating it powered on. The remote control for the codec may listen to these acknowledgement signals and in response update what is displayed on its user interface . For example upon hearing an acknowledgement signal indicating the codec powered on the remote control may provide an indication on its interface that the codec is on. 

The system controller is configured to send one or more commands to the one or more other videoconferencing components in response to the one or more acknowledgement signals generated by the codec . Thus the system controller may listen to acknowledgement signals issued by the codec . In response the system controller may send appropriate command s e.g. based on preprogrammed logic to the display speakers microphone cameras video transmitter receiver components lighting and or window treatment controls etc.

The remote control includes a user interface such as a touch screen user interface by which a user may initiate video calls end or hang up video calls adjust the volume of the call etc. The codec may provide video switching scaling volume control and camera control as well as complex dialing and call management.

In some embodiments when the system controller interacts with the codec the system controller does not duplicate capabilities such as audio digital signal processing DSP user interface video switching scaling etc. that are provided through the codec . The system controller may communicate with the codec e.g. via a two way RS 232 interface using an application programming interface API of the codec .

In response to codec acknowledgements the system controller may provide commands to other devices to perform various functions. For example the codec may be configured to automatically accept calls. Upon receiving a call the codec issues an acknowledgement signal. In response to the acknowledgement signal indicating a call was accepted the system controller may command the display to power on switch the display to the appropriate video input and adjust the speaker volume lighting and window treatments .

Additionally or alternatively a user may plug his her laptop or other device into a room connection for a laptop. The system controller may sense through the codec e.g. via an acknowledgement signal that a device has been connected. In response the system controller may command the display to power on switch the display to the appropriate video input and adjust the speaker volume in the room. When the user s device is disconnected the system controller may set a timer e.g. for thirty minutes. After thirty minutes have passed the system controller may command the display to turn off unless perhaps another device has established a connection in the meantime. If another user device is connected and subsequently is disconnected the system controller again sets the timer for thirty minutes.

In some embodiments the system controller may be programmed not only to monitor the codec but also to send commands to the codec . In one example embodiment videoconferencing may be provided in a large room having two displays at opposite ends of the room. The room may normally be divided into two smaller rooms by a movable room divider having a motion sensor or other device in communication with the system controller . If the system controller receives a signal from e.g. the motion sensor indicating the room divider is being retracted to enlarge the room the system controller may command both displays to power on and command the codec to switch the appropriate video inputs outputs to both displays .

Although the system controller may be configured to perform various preset functions to control a conference room environment not all of such functions need to be performed in response to the codec . The system controller may execute independently of the codec to perform various preset functions using equipment that may or may not communicate with the codec in providing other functions. For example the system controller may provide preset functions for a local presentation that does not involve videoconferencing. The system controller may communicate with a presentation switch e.g. a matrix switcher or presentation scaler of the video transmitter receiver scaler equipment . The switch may be configured to generate an acknowledgement signal in response to a laptop or other presentation source being connected to an input of the switch. When the system controller receives an acknowledgement signal from the switch the system controller may send one or commands to other system components e.g. to dim the lights and or shades . In some embodiments the system controller may monitor motion sensors smoke sensors etc. for particular events and may turn on lights alarms etc. in response to predefined events and or environment conditions.

In some embodiments the system controller does not include a tactile user interface i.e. having switches or buttons . Further in some embodiments the remote control for the codec is the only user interface in the system and may provide only limited functionality to the user such as initiating terminating calls adjusting volume etc. All other functionality may be provided by programming logic stored in the system controller .

Other or additional components and functions could be provided e.g. by a manufacturer of the videoconferencing system that a user would directly control through the user interface remote control and codec . In some embodiments the videoconferencing system performs various functions that are not directly user controlled but instead are implemented automatically as described herein.

The codec and many if not most of the other devices of the videoconferencing system communicate in any suitable manner including for example using serial e.g. RS 232 and or Internet Protocol IP interfaces. In one example implementation of the system shown in the codec is a Cisco C40 codec and the remote control is a Cisco CTS CTRL DVC8 touch panel. The video transmission reception scaling and or switching may be performed with wirelessly e.g. via a Barco ClickShare system. Additionally or alternatively wired transmission and reception scaling may be provided e.g. via a Crestron DM TX 201 C video transmitter and a Crestron DM RMC SCALER C video receiver scaler. The system controller may be e.g. a Crestron MC3.

The foregoing system can be more standardized and user friendly than other systems currently in use because a user is not required to interact with more than one remote control and that one remote i.e. the codec remote may have only limited and or standardized functionality so as not to overwhelm the user with options programming features or required actions. What the videoconferencing system can and cannot do may be quickly and clearly defined. Further the overall cost of obtaining and installing the system may be less because a custom remote is not required and therefore does not have to be programmed. Further the system controller may be configured for use with a particular type model of codec remote and or preprogrammed with logic that applies to virtually any videoconferencing setup which can further decrease costs and or simplify installation.

In one preferred embodiment a videoconferencing system is implemented in a meeting room having dimensions of approximately ten to fifteen feet wide by fifteen to twenty five feet deep. The touch panel may control all aspects of the system including the displays and the audio volume. Lighting and other devices may or may not be controlled by the touch panel . Content input from a laptop may be provided through a wired or wireless connection.

There may be only a single display or there may multiple displays positioned in any suitable configuration e.g. two or more displays arranged side by side two displays arranged one above the other two or more displays positioned on opposite ends of the room etc. . The one or more displays may be e.g. LED displays and may have a screen size measured diagonally of approximately fifty five inches to approximately ninety inches.

Room audio may be provided through one or more custom conference loudspeakers through integrated system speakers or through any other suitable speaker configuration. Room audio may be captured using table top microphones ceiling mount microphones integrated system microphones or any other suitable configuration. Acoustic room treatments and or video specific lighting may also be included in the system.

The touch panel may be configured to wake up the system and turn on the display when a user touches the touch panel. The touch panel may be configured to provide a user with the option to place a video call run a presentation adjust the camera control and or other settings etc. The system may also be configured to automatically switch between video input sources and scale video signals as appropriate based on device connections depending on whether the user has selected a conference call or a presentation etc. The system may be configured to go into a standby mode after a period of inactivity if the user selects the standby mode etc. The system may automatically wake up and turn on when a user touches the touch panel as described above when a call is received e.g. if the system is set to auto answer etc.

Audio quality may be affected by significant outside noise coming into the room such as road noise HVAC noise other environmental noise etc. Rooms with excessive hard surfaces such as significant glass wood and or stone may also affect audio quality. Therefore it may be preferable for a videoconferencing and or presentation room to have an acoustic tile ceiling carpeted flooring audio treatments on drywall etc. Rooms having insufficient light may affect video quality and cause displayed images to appear grainy or otherwise distorted. Rooms with untreated or undertreated windows can also allow sunlight into the room to compete with the room lighting and affect the video quality. It is therefore preferable for the videoconferencing and or presentation room to have sufficient lighting and if necessary window treatments .

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the disclosure.

