---

title: Intelligence centers
abstract: Disclosed herein, among other things, is a system comprising a content repository, a communication portal developer, a content manager, and an analytic engine. The content repository is adapted to store electronic content in a computer-readable storage medium. The communication portal developer includes at least one wizard to create a plurality of customizable portals without coding software. Each customizable portal is accessible to one or more selected visitors through a web browser. The content manager is adapted to publish selectable electronic content to selectable portals. The content manager includes at least one wizard to populate and manage the electronic content within the content repository. The analytic engine analyzes electronic content use and visitor behavior while logged into their customizable portal. In various embodiments, the analytics are provided in real time or near real time. Other embodiments are disclosed herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507865&OS=09507865&RS=09507865
owner: CALLIDUS SOFTWARE INC.
number: 09507865
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140930
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 225 051 filed Sep. 2 2011 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 839 865 filed Jul. 20 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 046 387 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 145 750 filed Jun. 6 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 774 378 which claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 577 357 entitled System and Method for Providing a Marketing and Sales Intelligence Center filed Jun. 4 2004 under 35 U.S.C. 119 e which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to software and more particularly to systems devices and methods for providing intelligence centers.

Useful and desired information can be easily lost within large quantities of available data. Much of the available data can quickly become obsolete in a fast changing environment or is not directly on point. Various document management content management or knowledge management engines are used to manage information. Useful information is able to be timely accessed and shared with others.

Customized and private communication channels used to share customized information often require relatively complex communication and database programming or otherwise require technical assistance. Such requirements are obstacles to quickly share information in fast changing environments.

One example of useful information is customer information. Various customer relationship management CRM software are used to track customer information and audit sales opportunities. However CRM software lacks among other things business logic and templates.

One aspect of this disclosure relates to a system. Various system embodiments include a content repository a communication portal developer a content manager and an analytic engine. The content repository is adapted to store electronic content in a computer readable storage medium. The communication portal developer includes at least one wizard to create a plurality of customizable portals without coding software. Each customizable portal is accessible to one or more selected visitors through a web browser. The content manager is adapted to publish selectable electronic content to selectable portals. The content manager includes at least one wizard to populate and manage the electronic content within the content repository. The analytic engine analyzes electronic content use and visitor behavior while logged into their customizable portal. In various embodiments the analytics are provided in real time or near real time.

Various system embodiments include means for populating and managing electronic content in a content repository using programming wizards means for creating customizable communication portals without coding software using programming wizards means for publishing selectable electronic content within the content repository to selectable portals and means for analyzing electronic content use and portal use. Each communication portal is customized to provide a portal for at least one specific user. Each specific user is associated with the portal to which the electronic content was published is able to access the published electronic content within the content repository through the portal.

One aspect of this disclosure relates to a method. According to various embodiments electronic content in a content repository is populated and managed using programming wizards. Customizable communication portals are created without coding software using programming wizards. Each communication portal is customized to provide a portal for at least one specific user. Selectable electronic content within the content repository is published to selectable portals. Each specific user associated with the portal to which the electronic content was published is able to access the published electronic content within the content repository through the portal. Content use and portal use is analyzed.

One aspect of this disclosure relates to a method for creating a portal through a user interface with a communication portal developer. According to various embodiments an owner of the portal is selected from a list of potential owners provided by the interface. An audience for the portal is selected from a list of potential audiences provided by the interface. Electronic content from a content repository and users are added to the portal.

One aspect of this disclosure relates to a computer system. Various system embodiments include a content repository and a communication portal developer used to develop customized portals. The content repository is adapted to store electronic content in a computer readable medium. The communication portal developer includes a portal owner interface an audience interface a portal content interface and a portal user interface. The portal owner interface provides a list of potential owners and enables selection of a portal owner from the list of potential owners. The audience interface provides a list of potential audiences and enables selection of an audience from the list of potential audiences. The portal content interface provides a list of potential electronic content stored in the content repository that can potentially be accessed through the portal. The portal content interface enables selection of portal content from the list of potential electronic contents to allow one or more portal users to access the selected content through the portal.

This Summary is an overview of some of the teachings of the present application and not intended to be an exclusive or exhaustive treatment of the present subject matter. Further details are found in the detailed description and appended claims. Other aspects will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the following detailed description and viewing the drawings that form a part thereof each of which are not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents.

The following detailed description of the present subject matter refers to the accompanying drawings which show by way of illustration specific aspects and embodiments in which the present subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. References to an one or various embodiments in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references contemplate more than one embodiment. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of legal equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Various aspects and embodiments of the present subject matter provide hosted intelligence centers that enable dynamic information delivery. Embodiments of the present subject matter are delivered as an ASP active server pages hosted solution that can be leased and can be accessed through a web browser. No additional hardware or software is required.

Various embodiments of the present subject matter adapt to a business without development. The intelligence center is branded for each customer using a template driven approach. Each customer deployment takes on the look and feel of the companies branding. Some embodiments scrape a customer s existing website also referred to as a dot com site to obtain font type font size font color graphics background button types and the like to automatically develop a skin that matches the customer s brand.

Various embodiments of the present subject matter adapt to individual user needs. The intelligence center adapts to the unique needs of each user. This is accomplished without development using templates and includes dynamic delivery of files news reporting usage and other repository values.

Various embodiments of the present subject matter provide advanced search features and functions. A search engine filter combined with a hierarchical interface display is used to locate content. This provides the user with the ability to search through thousands of documents contained in the repository based on metadata tags for each of the document to locate matches. An advanced search engine returns matches based the customer s products and method of doing business. Content can be searched based on the profile of an opportunity. Data shaping and other advanced SQL techniques can be used to quickly return content.

Various embodiments of the present subject matter provide portal creation without development. The portal creation wizard allows users to create online web portals in several mouse clicks without application development effort using HTML or other programming language. Each portal delivers dynamic content to users over the internet and provides a vendor with the ability to understand the portal user s behavior real time.

Various embodiments of the present subject matter provide advanced content management. Users are able to submit publish maintain and retire content using the automated web application. The repository is self grooming sending alerts to content authors when content is near to retirement and provides feedback from users of content.

Various embodiments of the present subject matter provide guided selling. The guided selling feature returns content contained in the repository based on the customer s profile. It displays this in the context of the customer s selling process. Various embodiments of the present subject matter provide real time or near real time analytics. Real time analytics to understand the usage of the application and the content is provided as a by product of users accessing the intelligence center. The analytics can be tracked at a user division and country level. Advanced SQL accessing techniques can quickly display results.

Various embodiments of the present subject matter provide an on line resource center which provides a facility that allows users to build an intranet without application development effort. Each page is dynamic displaying only content that is assigned to the user s division.

The intelligence center is a hosted product suite that is designed to be customized without development effort. As a hosted solution no hardware needs to be bought no software needs to be installed and only a quick setup wizard is completed. The intelligence center is easily branded to look like an end user s intranet and Internet sites and by using a rapid deployment approach takes less than 8 hours to rollout.

The illustration further includes visitor A who accesses portal through network using browser A visitor B who accesses portal through network using browser B visitor C who accesses portal through network using browser B visitor D who accesses portal N through network using browser D. Each portal can be customized to allow one or more specific visitors. The illustration also includes a user with privileges who accesses the user interfaces and the customizable portal s . A remote user can access the intelligence center via a global communication network as illustrated at and a local user can access the intelligence center through a local network as illustrated at or a global network as illustrated at . User accounts provide access to the product and dictate the level of control that the logged on user has. According to various embodiments a user account falls within one of the following groups Visitors an externally grantable user account which enables users to view the portals to which they are assigned Visitor Administrators an externally grantable user account which enables users to view and administer the portals to which they are assigned Publishers which enables users to publish content to the repository and therefore also to private websites and to administer Visitor and Visitor Administration accounts Administrators which enables users to publish content and administer all user accounts and product settings and Super Users which is a special group for staff members.

A brief introduction of the system components is provided here. Further detail is provided throughout this specification. The content stored in the content repository is electronic content which is capable of being stored in electronic form on a computer readable medium. Each content item is stored once and is capable of being associated with at least one portal. The electronic content can be organized by associating each content item with categories sub categories sub subcategories and the like. Additionally metadata can be associated with each content item to assist with searching functions. The search engine is adapted to search by metadata and or categories subcategories which corresponds to the categories and metadata associated to the content within the content repository. Contextual searches such as solution based searches can be performed using the metadata. The analytic engine is adapted to generated selectable reports including reports regarding portal specific data such as who is using the portal and when and how the portal is being used and regarding content data such as how often the content is used. This information can be provided in real time or near real time i.e. without noticeable delay to the user.

The illustrated user interfaces include an analytics interface with a table driven report wizard used to select and customize desired reports. The illustrated content manager interface includes a table driven wizard used to manage and groom the content in the content repository. The illustrated portal developer interface includes a table driven wizard used to create and customize communication portals. The system manager interface is used to control the functionality of the intelligence center and the dashboard interface provides an interface for a user to view and gain access to often used information such as portal information electronic content use and visitor behavior and email communication.

The system manager allows staff to quickly and easily setup the intelligence center to support a business without the need to perform customized application development. The system manager is used to adapt the intelligence center to adhere to a company s processes products competitors industries serviced and collateral content types. In addition the color scheme and overall look and feel can be changed to adhere to intranet or extranet sites. This component uses step by step wizards to ensure quick setup and to enable content publishing even on the same day on which the intelligence center is installed.

The content manager allows those that manage content to fine tune and continue to grow content such as marketing collateral sales presentations and training material in real time mode. Content is made available immediately with targeted communication emails to ensure that content is used. To prevent outdated content the content repository automatically grooms the materials based on rules defined by staff responsible for content management. The entire content management process is automated allowing a user to simply review approve and maintain content using a step by step approach. Content is posted archived and removed from the content repository without the help of IT or native HTML development. The content manager includes a basic set of collateral templates used to quickly populate consistent content.

A user component allows staff to have direct access to the latest collateral sales presentations and training material for their specific target user audience be it employees customers channels sales or partners. The user component also enables staff to have direct feedback to document owners allowing them to have a hand in the fine tuning of documents. Users have access to the latest content with the ability to email download and package content for customers. The user component also fosters collaboration allowing the user to interact with content owners share feedback post customer wins and submit new best practice content. The My Solution feature allows a user to quickly access content that they frequently leverage.

A well known problem with many intranets and extranets is outdated content. All content published to the content repository has an expiration date. Using email content owners receive notification of content in need of review. The owner can update and extend the content or simply allow it to be archived.

The intelligence center provides a web based database driven application that provides a centralized framework for managing collateral and information and an online library with a search engine. The intelligence center deploys easily and using built in setup wizards content templates and reports adapts to meet business needs without having to build custom code. Two way communications through customizable portals allows both input and feedback between teams. Unused content is managed through the application of usage thresholds If a document is not being used by the field failing to exceed a threshold of minimal unique hits then the owner will be notified they can either promote and extend the content or allow it to be archived. Archived content may be easily searched by users but is removed from the main workspace .

Examples of specific implementations of the hosted intelligence center includes hosted marketing and sales intelligence center hosted health care intelligence centers and hosted real estate intelligence centers. The marketing and sales intelligence center is illustrated in this document as an example of an implementation. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure how to implement the intelligence center into other industries such as by way of example and not limitation health care and real estate. Thus unless otherwise recited in the claims the claims should not be limited to a particular application within particular industry.

The marketing and sales intelligence center according to various embodiments of the present subject matter provides the ability to easily manage find deliver and communicate information to sell more effectively. The marketing and sales intelligence center provides an environment that delivers useful on demand customizable and actionable information to sales teams partners and customers using customizable portals for customers prospects and partners. The marketing and sale intelligence center serves as a central repository of knowledge used to drive revenue with new and existing customers and to maintain synchronization for all sales channels and those that enable sales.

The hosted marketing and sales intelligence center enables marketing to effectively launch new products including sales ready collateral that works for all sales channels to bridge the gap between marketing and sales enables marketing programs that are in sync with the needs of customers and prospects to bridge the gap marketing and current market needs and enables real time feedback to evolve the value proposition competitor intelligence and product requirements. The hosted marketing and sales intelligence center provides a personal website through a customizable portal to enable the customer to understand the value proposition based on their needs and continue to stay current on the solutions available for add on sales. Best practices can be shared across the entire organization using consistent material and prior successes to quicken the time to ramp up new staff. Real time or near real time analytics continuously provides a way to measure and improve the overall effectiveness of marketing sales services and other groups involved in selling supporting sales or supporting the customer. Because of the real time or near real time analytics there is no perceived delay in receiving the data because the data is processed when it enters the computer rather than by some sort of batch processing where the information is stored and operated on at a later time.

According to various embodiments the present subject matter provides an enterprise solution for a revenue enablement lifecycle including a new produce release marketing sales programs and education sales effectiveness service effectiveness and best practices and analytics. The entire lifecycle has at its core a repository of content stored in the customer s private website. Within minutes a private customized website for the customer can be generated by the present subject matter.

Problems associated with conventional new product releases include the lack of consistent release process the lack of common collateral and the lack of a vehicle to launch new product to enable all sales channels to learn the value proposition. There is no automation or vehicle to drive the necessary collaboration to create and evolve the message and provide field proven best practices no clear understanding of the enablement needs for each sales channel resulting in generic material and no clear understanding of the product priority revenue goals what target sales channels need enablement. The time between the release of a new product and the effective selling across all channels is too long such that products die on the vine . Training programs are costly and ineffective taking people away from selling time. Features are sold over value which leads to discounting increasing the loss rate to competition along with poor forecasting and revenue visibility.

With respect to new product releases the present subject matter can be used to drive collaboration through the enterprise to produce consistent and effective sales training. A combination of product sales collateral and training materials are produced to effectively release a new product. This content ensures that direct sales channel sales partners and customers quickly understand the value proposition and product. The present subject matter can provide a standard process and vehicle to distribute new content used to enable all sales channels to learn and evolve the value proposition. Using the present subject matter a new product release process focuses on connecting the value proposition to the needs of the customer base to quickly identify new sales opportunities and provides consistent sales collateral and training content including sales training kits and solution oriented packing. Training is delivered just in time as the various sales channel work the opportunity.

Problems associated with conventional marketing and sales programs include a gap between what sales needs and what marketing provides the inability to timely process the constantly evolving products and positioning re training of new and existing product value proposition and tech product training such as may occur because of mergers and acquisitions an inconsistent message across all channels poor communications between sales channels and customers. Additionally the materials are not value based. Because of these problems collateral needs to be reworked taking away from selling time and working with customers. The creation and re distribution of collateral is costly. Customers tend to become confused due to inconsistent messages from multiple channels. Poor communication between sales channels and customers decreases reaction time to minor shifts and major strategic inflection points. Products are not in line with market needs because focus on requirements is lost. Discounting is required to create sense of urgency to buy rather than selling business value reducing revenue.

With respect to new product releases the present subject matter can be used to provide a collaboration engine and standard processes to enable the introduction of new products to the market quicker. Marketing campaigns can be aligned to real needs in the market. A single repository provides one central point to update and content can be used by all channels. The present subject matter can provide a vehicle for just in time training and can provide analytics against central content with usage information and content feedback to allow a user to detect trends in marketing sales and product. The present subject matter can be used to provide targeted content to provide sale programs and marketing campaigns inline with market needs. Mindshare is gained across sales channels and customer base to take advantage of the new product release. Marketing programs and pre packaged solutions are developed that are aligned to real customer needs in order to inform and motivate the customer. The present subject matter provides the necessary tools to enable just in time JIT training across your sales channels and customer base.

Problems associated with conventional sales include discounting to advance and close the deal rather than building value. Current tools track account and customer information and audit the marketing and sales process but do not address how to enable sales or how to understand and sell product. Poor communication can be attributed to artificial walls between development marketing and sales channels. These problems result in poor forecasting and loss of revenue ineffective sales channels and unused sales collateral.

With respect to sales effectiveness the present subject matter can be used to bridge the gap between marketing and sale to sell value to the customer. After formal training is delivered sales channels are dependent on selling tools and collateral. The present subject matter serves as the vehicle to deliver sales ready collateral packaged with just in time training material to enable sales channels to quickly identify opportunities and sell value. The present subject matter can provide online sales coaching can improve the effectiveness of CRM and other productivity tools by providing an outline regarding how to sell. Sales kits are aligned to real customer needs and evolves based on feedback and content analytics. Embodiments of the present subject matter provide private customer websites with content that is aligned to their needs.

Problems associated with conventional sales include the lack of consistent messaging between pre sales and post sales teams as the pre sales teams do not share the perceived value for why the customer purchased the product with post sales staff that handles the customer and the post sales teams do not communicate the actual value received to pre sales account owners. Additionally post sales teams are unable to identify and pass additional sales information to presales teams. These problems result in improperly set expectations implementations that do not meet expectations the inability to leverage real customer testimonials for new sales and reduced add on sales after initial sale.

With respect to services effectiveness the present subject matter can be used to bridge the gap between pre and post sales to share best practices and capture deployment successes. After the sale has occurred an organization should effectively transition to deployment mode maintaining the knowledge and best practices specific to each new customer. The present subject matter provides a central knowledge base to maintain the customer s best practices online. The central location allows standard files such as power point presentations as well as rich media to be shared. Win reports captured and shared with service staff include statement of work or other additional supporting information. The service process leverages new customer information extending the customer s private website for collection and distribution of content. This is part of the re selling process ensuring a smooth transition from pre to post sales.

Very little is known about the effectiveness of multi million dollar marketing campaigns new sales collateral and product and sales training. It tends to be a one way street with corporate providing collateral to the field however the field rarely reciprocates or provides input on its usefulness. This is especially true of geographically distributed companies. Problems with conventional sales include the lack of analytics to understand usage of collateral the inability to prioritize based on field usage and to rate and comment on the content and the inability to share best practices. Because of these problems content is not updated and developed based on field usage. Revenue is lost since the top needs of the field are not addressed. Additionally content does not evolve based on field usage and best practices used in the field are lost. Real time analytics becomes a reality with a central repository accessed by all staff and customers.

The present subject matter provides a content management repository which enables collaboration across the enterprise one consistent message across all sales channels the use of Internet and existing messaging technologies and just in time training. Without a central knowledge base it is difficult if not impossible to maintain current content capture share best practices and understand the effectiveness of the work performed to enable your staff. The present subject matter provides detailed metrics to help understand usage patterns promote success and rework as necessary to keep in touch with the ever changing needs of the market.

Some problems associated with enterprises involves the lack of collaboration due to many repositories and file structures. Additional problems include the lack of automation for workflow to effectively capture new content and feedback outdated content the inability to locate content or understand content and content that doesn t address entire selling process. Because of these problems resources are ineffectively utilized to re create the wheel and best practices are lost preventing the ability to scale organization. Outdated content such as competitive document causes loss of credibility and revenue.

A central repository with detailed information about each document ensures that users can quickly find refine use and share content. In various embodiments the entire enterprise has access to central repository. Development Product Management Marketing Sales and Services join forces to deliver product and collateral that are aligned to needs of the customer. The present subject matter provides a vehicle to share best practices real time. Automated content maintenance workflow ensures current content is flowing daily. Reports can be automatically sent to owners of outdated content each day as expiration date is within certain date range. Metadata is used to categorize and identify content quickly via content index. Kits provide easy to find pre packaged content and built in analytics are able to identify usage. The present subject matter provides a vehicle to capture customer testimonials and product feedback from staff that is closest to the customer and provides a platform to share best practices across a geographically distributed sales model.

Various embodiments of the present subject matter content management that enables a self cleaning intranet. The content management serves to prune or groom intranet content over time by automatically removing and archiving both out of date and unused content. Out of date content is managed by giving all published content an expiration date. Several days prior to expiration the content owner will be emailed and notified accordingly. The owner may wish to update and extend the content or simply allow it to be archived. Unused content is managed through the application of usage thresholds. If a piece of content is not being used by the field failing to exceed a threshold of minimal unique hits then the owner will be notified. In response to being notified that the published content has not met a usage threshold the owner can either promote and extend the content or allow the content to be archived. Archived content may be easily searched by users but is removed from the main workspace of the system.

The system manager component is used to identify the thresholds for each organization to automate the pruning process. In various embodiments the threshold include the number of days since last update the expiration date and the minimum usage level over a defined period of time. Reporting is provided to communicate with content managers the archive process and affected content.

Embodiments of the present subject matter conform to the discrete needs and goals of the organization using pre packaged templates developed for various industry verticals and using examples to ensure a quick implementation using a fully automated content management process to drive new content and refine current content based on actual usage.

This component is used to define the site to adhere to any sales process all content types and tool kits. A system manager interface is illustrated at in . A step type step wizard enables quick setup. The component is used to setup and configure the intelligence center. The goal is to enable a new customer to quickly configure all aspects of the intelligence center. The system is designed to support any type of company and product. Thus the intelligence center is table driven allowing the system manager to configure based on their discrete needs.

According to various embodiments configuring the intelligence center includes installing the intelligence center to support a small or large geographically distributed organization assessing all organization processes e.g. a revenue enablement lifecycle taking inventory of content e.g. marketing sales service and other content that supports the sale and service of the companies products and loading the company processes to serve as an outline and structure for the content and load the actual content. It is a goal to enable an organization to perform these steps quickly and easily without application development i.e. without any changes to the program code or database . If the organization is fairly mature with existing processes and content a new customer can install in minutes configure in hours and roll out to the enterprise in days. This is different from other sales effectiveness tools and related solutions such as CRM or PRM. If the organization is not mature with little or no process or content then a process assessment quick start consulting package can be used. The deployment requirement of install in minutes and configures in hours doesn t take into consideration content development. For organizations that require work in this area the intelligence center offers a content template library to expedite the creation of consistent content.

Management also includes analytics and corresponding reporting tasks. Some analytics tasks include Setup Kit Templates used to create types of kits and associate all content types the apply. Also map content templates and examples Setup Departments used to load the department types used to categorize content into departments such as marketing sales services etc. Load Sales Channels used to filter content by user type such as direct field and tele sales and partner sales Setup Fulfillment used to load the information used to create email to fulfillment center Configure User Interface used to change the look and feel and menu items and Setup Divisions used to optionally categorize content by business units or divisions.

The Analytics user interface illustrated at in is intuitive and flexible to support the multiple task scenarios that apply. An embodiment of a user interface includes buttons categorized by System Setup and Content Setup. System Setup buttons can include for example an online tutorial an email setup a user access setup a database setup configure tools and configure menu. Content Setup button can include for example configure content content maintenance process creation configure kits and reporting. Content can be created by selecting search criteria and updating system data tables. The search results can be sorted by most used date name and rating.

This component is used to review approve and maintain content. The content engine can be used by product management marketing sales training and the like. The content engine drives the entire content management process including reviewing and publishing new content and maintaining existing content. The intelligence center of the present subject matter allows every user to not simply use but also submit new content to the repository. In addition using the kit builder facility the intelligence center provides an environment where user s can collaborate on new content prior to being formally published.

The content engine includes the Kit Builder facility whose benefits include collaboration collateral standards and scalability. A kit is managed by a kit owner who is responsible for managing the kit and working with others to create documents that go into the kit. The Kit Builder provides a central collaboration workspace which can be used to work with others to create documents for the kit. With respect to collateral standards a default collateral set can be created for each kit type to provide for standard documents across kits. With respect to scalability the Kit Builder can be used by various business groups to provide kits organized around product. Kits can easily be created when new Product Families or Products are introduced. An example of a kit builder process includes creating a new kit and determining from a default list of collateral types those that are going to be included in the new kit assigning ownership of collateral types to specific users associating documents to the collateral types in the kit reviewing the associated documents and update to complete and publishing the kit.

According to an embodiment both content manager and system manager can have the ability to create kits. Only a user of one of the components User Content Manager etc. can gain access a kit in development. Upon creation the content or system manager identifies the users who have access to the kit. A licensed copy is required to access a kit. A content manager can email a document contained in a kit. Individuals that have access to kits can only review the details about the kit and documents and access the docs attached to a kit but cannot remove or add documents to kit. Various embodiments use a spreadsheet and various embodiments use a tree view such that a user is able to sort on a product folder to see all kits associated with the product. For example there may be a customer sales and service kit for a release. In fact because there are multiple versions there may be multiple versions of a sales kit per version. According to various embodiments the templates are files. Each of the kits will have a set of files. There are default kits that can be customized by a content manager or system manager. In addition new kits with templates can be added.

Various embodiments provide Sales Kits Customer Kits and Service Kits as default kits. The following provides the content types for each of these three kits which can function as default kits according to various embodiments. Some embodiments of Sales Kits include various combinations of Sales Guides Sales Cheat Sheets Competitive Review optional Competitive Cheat Sheets Price Schedule Data Solution Kits Customer Stories Evaluation Guide optional Customer Presentation Email Template Qualification Call Scripts Return on Investment Cheat Sheets What s New and Internal Training Some embodiments of Customer Kits include Competitive Review version approved for external distribution Price Schedule Data Solution Kits Customer Story Evaluation Guide Customer Presentation Return on investment Cheat Sheets What s New. Some embodiments of Service Kits include Customer Stories Customer Training Frequently Asked Questions FAQ Implementation Best Practices and Implementation Success Stories link to service win reports . The template files are managed by the content manager and are not displayed to the user. Every document contained in the default kits can have a template.

The content engine also referred to as a content manager user interface is intuitive. An embodiment of a content engine interface includes buttons categorized by system setup and content setup. System Setup buttons can include for example an online tutorial configure custom pages and reporting. Content Setup buttons can include for example content maintenance publish content process creation kit builder and update emails.

The intelligence center allows an end user to access content and provides the end user with the ability to interact with content owners share feedback and submit new content. The intelligence center can be used by marketing product management sales services and partners for example.

This approach provides users of all levels with a quick way to located content in the context of the sales opportunity with prospects and service engagement with a customer. Some embodiments provide the ability to download email add to content cart and or save query to favorites.

Some examples of wizards are provided below. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure how to develop other table based wizards.

In a process to prepare to sell according to an embodiment of a Solution Based Wizard the wizard entry form asks What solution s is the customer interested in A solution selection box including data from a solution type database table permits the selection of one to multiple solutions. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of all document sales kits that match solution all customer email templates that match solution all call script content types that match solution and all presentation content types that match solution. In the embodiment the wizard entry form asks What is the customer s industry An industry selection box including data from an industry table allow the selection of at least one value from industry database table. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of all customer email templates that match solution select all call scripts content types that match industry select win reports that match the industry select service win reports that match the industry and select all data sheets for industry. In the embodiment the wizard entry form asks Is there a competitor A competitor selection box including data from a computer database table allow the selection of at least one competitor. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of select all win reports that match competitor and select all competition content type docs for the competitor.

Only the selected fields are displayed. A displayed customer profile identifies solution s industry and competitor s . A text box is displayed with the text What to say to gain customer interest. Content matches for solution or industry are displayed. A text box is displayed with the text Email template to gain customer interest including a button to copy email template to an email message. A text box is displayed with the text Customer references to gain customer interest. The wizard prompts a selection of win reports that match the industry service win reports that match the industry and or all customer stories that match the industry. A text box is displayed with the text Brief product information to gain customer interest. The wizard prompts a selection of data and solution sheets. In a process to prepare the materials for selling the wizard provides internal sales kits and prompts for a selection and provides customer s kits for distribution to customer and customer kits for solution or industry. In a process to prepare to present the solution the wizard provides presentation materials and prompts for a selection of content types for solution or industry. In a process to prepare the materials to compete the wizard provides corporate and field competitive intelligence and prompts for a selection of all win reports that match competitor and or all competition content type docs for the competitor.

In a process to prepare to sell according to an embodiment of a Product Based Wizard the wizard entry form asks What is the customer s industry An industry selection box including data from an industry type database table permits selection of an industry. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of all customer email templates that match industry win reports that match the industry and service win reports that match the industry. The wizard form asks What product s is the customer interested in A product selection box including data from a product type database table permits selection of one or more products. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of all sales kits that match the product selected all customer email templates that match product and all call script content type docs that match product. The wizard form asks Is there a competitor A competitor selection box including data from a competitor type database table permits selection of one or more competitors. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of all win reports that match competitor and all competition content type docs for the competitor.

Only the selected fields are displayed. A displayed opportunity profile identifies industry product s and competitor s . A text box is displayed with the text What to say to gain customer interest and content matches for product or industry are displayed. A text box is displayed with the text Email template to gain customer interest and content matches for product or industry are displayed. A text box is displayed with the text References to gain customer interest and content matches of win reports and service win reports for product or industry are displayed. A text box is displayed with the text Inform and educate customer and content matches of data and solution sheets for product or industry are displayed.

In a process to prepare the materials for selling the wizard provides sales kits and customer kits for the solution or industry for use in education and distribution. In a process to prepare to present the solution the wizard provides presentation materials for the solution or industry. In a process to prepare to compete the wizard prompts for a selection of all win reports that match competitor or all competition content type docs for the competitor.

This wizard provides collateral to be used on a sales call specific to the needs of the prospect. This is a quick way to package content to be distributed in either hardcopy or electronic format. According to an embodiment of a Packaging Content Wizard the wizard entry form asks What is the customer s industry An industry selection box including data from an industry type database table permits selection of one or more industries. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of customer kits that match the industry. The wizard entry form asks What solution or product is the customer interested in A solution selection box including data from a solution database table permits selection of one or more solutions. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of customer kits that match the solution. The wizard entry form asks Is there a competitor A competitor selection box including data from a competitor database table permits selection of one or more competitors. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of all competition content type documents that are marked as free to distribute for the competitor.

A displayed package collateral query identifies an opportunity profile that includes industry product s and competitor s . A text box is displayed with the text Customer kits to distribute or post to customer website and matches of customer kits for the industry or solution are provided for selection. A text box is displayed with the text Competitive Comparisons and all competition content type docs that are marked as free to distribute for the competitor are provided for selection.

This wizard provides best practices training content and win report details to prepare for a consulting and training engagement. According to an embodiment the wizard entry form asks What products has the customer purchased A product selection box including data from a product database table permits selection of one or more products. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of all service win reports that match the product all service kits that match the products and all best practice content types that match the product. The wizard entry form asks What solutions is the customer interested in deploying A solutions selection box including data from a solutions database table permits selection of one or more solutions. The wizard prompts a selection from the list of document service kits that match solution and all best practice content type documents for solution.

A displayed package collateral query identifies a customer profile that includes product s purchased and solution s . A text box is displayed with the text Prepare to indicate preparation for engagement and matches of are provided for selection of all service kits that match the products customer training and frequently asked questions. A text box is displayed with the text Best Practices to indicate proven best practices for reuse and matches are provided for selection of all best practice content types that match the product. A text box is displayed with the text Customer Reference to indicate customer reference to endorse service and matches are provided for selection of all service win reports that match the product and customer stories.

An embodiment of a user interface includes buttons which can include for example Offline Online Mode Online Tutorial My Solution My Private Websites What s New Top Content New Product Releases Post Content Customer Contacts Sales Effectiveness Customer Stories Proposals Sales Kits Company Processes CRM SFA Links and Custom Pages. Content can be created by selecting search criteria sorting results such as by most used date name rating etc. and packaging and acting on content. Examples of actions include emailing sending to handheld devices downloading zip files downloading to work offline saving as a favorite adding to a homepage including in customer versions of website and sending email to fulfillment center. Thumbnails can be used to view documents.

An embodiment of a user interface includes buttons which can include for example buttons to email download send link and send URL.

This component illustrated at in is used by a customer to build custom web pages to review and download content and to analyze the use of content. illustrate various portal creation embodiments.

The content template library can be used by content managers. The library includes ready made templates with the outline of a business process. The library can include advanced templates such as templates for sales enablement kits with an outline of a sales process. For companies with no or less mature processes the content library templates release process and sales process provide a jump start for deployment. Some content template tasks include Sales Process Templates which includes sales process release to market process deployment process Sales Kit Templates which includes a standard list of content types such as MS Word templates and active deliverable to provide online guidance Examples Kits which includes sales kits and solution kits and Example Sales Techniques which includes industry standard techniques such as chalk talk.

This component can be used by sales as it includes pre packaged sales methodology including opportunity management approach and techniques. Other methodology templates can be developed for non sales applications.

This component the interfaces of which are illustrated at in can be used by management as it permits reporting to analyze and communicate data regarding content use and portal use. The analytics tracks usage provides real business value in understanding direct and indirect sales staff product mindshare customer product mindshare customer buying interest for add on and cross selling opportunity what marketing initiatives are working or not working what sales initiatives are working or not working the effectiveness of the investment in sales enablement methods training CRM other tools and the general health and maintenance of the repository.

Reporting Analytics provides a list of static reports to include as part of a separate reporting tab. Each component has a reporting tab with access to different type of reports sys manager content manager user . Reporting Analytics provides ability to print save to file and export reports in MS Word or Excel format for further manipulation. Within the product the ability is provided to view report online save report to My Solution or email the report. Drill Down Analysis provides the ability to sort metrics by target users e.g. internal staff partners customers by internal staff department e.g. sales product marketing service marketing type of user audience e.g. technical non technical 

Mindshare provides a visitor analysis to provide an understanding of the mindshare for the usage or content across the entire user base. Visitor Session Overview analysis provides a graphic that shows a number of visitor session per day per week and per month. Able to drill down as stated above from overall users to groups to individual users. Visitor Session Time analysis provides average per day per week or for a specified time period. Most Active Users analysis provide totals for user by audience with the ability to drill down on a user audience type and individual using drill down stated above. Least Active Users analysis provides totals for user by audience with the ability to drill down on a user audience type using drill down stated above. Geographic Usage analysis provides a graphic showing usage by country using visits metric. Able to drill down. Unique Visitor Visits analysis provides totals of unique visitors for time period and is capable of distinguishing between repeat and one time visitors.

Performance reports provide activity statistics which provides an understanding of the performance of the intelligence center including files pages and other content. The metrics in this report serves as a great coaching tool for new staff trying to understand the top content areas of the intelligence center. Overall Site Hits which provides a macro report for total hits per day per week per month and average per business working day for a specified time period. Overall Page Views which provides overall hits reports for page view impressions. Document Action Usage which provides total documents viewed emailed downloaded save to favorite published to customer private website. Ability to drill down into specific documents is provided. Top 10 Report which provides top 10 of pages requested files requested content types win loss reports. Bottom 10 Report which provides bottom 10 of pages requested files requested content types win loss reports. Top Usage Day which provides top usage day by number of visits files accessed and time. Top Customer Portal Usage which provides top customer portals by number of visits and page hits. Usage Time which provides top usage time during the course of a day determined by number of visits files accessed and time spent. Top Pages which reviews top pages and allows ability to drill into what audience accesses in each page. Top Documents which reviews the top files accessed and provides ability to drill into count for files viewed online download email posted to customer web feedback to author added to favorites. Top Entry page and exit page which identifies entry and exit page for session. Top keywords which provides top keywords used to find content. Top products which provides top products used to locate content. Top content types which provides top content types used to locate content. Top methodology steps which provides top methodology step used to locate content. Top industry which provides the top industries used by search wizard. Top solutions which provides the top solutions used by search wizard. Top competitors which provides the top competitor used by search wizard. Customer Portal resources which provides top products posted top documents posted top kits posted and the like. Top References Requested which provides references from the win loss analysis list top competitors products industry requested. Content Dashboard which provides the total products total competitors total content types kit types solution types and win loss reports.

Maintenance System Setup provides information to maintain the intelligence center. A User Usage List provides a list of users that include user name last accessed date user audience department setup date content authored count average time spent on site files accessed. The list can be sorted by last accessed date. An Industry Usage List provides an industry name description number of associations to win loss reports. A Content Usage Types provides a type name description flag for template and example including the file name for each number of associations to documents. A Product Usage List provides a listing of products owner version sales channels audience that have access to product s content number of associations to documents docs posted to MY Solution pages and win loss reports. A Competitor List provides a list of competitors number of associations to wins loss reports.

Content Maintenance provides information to communicate availability of content and ongoing content maintenance. What s New provides a HTML format report to drop into email to announce updates. This includes new content and updated content. Metadata includes document title update date author and description. The content manager is allowed to set what metadata to include. Ability is provided to create different what new reports based on target audience such as internal staff partners and customers. Total Documents Per Content Type provides a total of each content type. Content Publishing provides content management metrics for total documents submitted published archived deleted. Also metrics can be provided for total win loss reports published updated deleted. Win Loss provides total win losses total by industry total by competitor and total by product. Author Maintenance Report provides a listing of users that have created content date posted retire date rating view count. Listing can be sorted by audience department or user. Enable the report to be emailed to content authors with embedded links to launch content directly for maintenance and re publishing. Content Department Ownership provides totals for content owned by department. Archive Content which provides a list that is older than specified date range. For example all content that is 12 months or older. Provide ability to sort by owner owning division department product. Similar to author maintenance report enable report to be emailed to author. Content Department Ownership provides totals for content owned by department. Archive Content provides a list content that is older than specified date range e.g. content that is 12 months or older . Ability is provided to sort by owner owning division department product. Report can be emailed to author. Unused Content provides a list of content with access view count less than specified number. Emails are auto generated by the repository based on thresholds established by content managers. Content Archive Reporting provides a list of content archived based on auto archive criteria set by system management. Kit Report provides a list of kits with product name product version publish date total hits owner. A pie chart can be provided with a breakdown of different kit types. Customer Portal Maintenance Total number of portals sort by industry list of customer portals owner date created last accessed industry customer contact email address last update date and view count. Based on visits threshold report can be generated to provide customer portal deletion notice to portal owner.

Individual Reporting provides user reporting to drive effective use of content. A Solution tab provides a general user content dashboard which provide overview metrics with totals for total documents viewed documents by user win loss reports submitted by user customer portals generated by user and total documents submitted and published. The Solution tab further provides a document distribution history which tracks what documents have been sent for each customer. This information is shared with CRM to populate the activity record. The Solution tab further provides content accessed which includes a list of content accessed and not accessed per user. The Solution tab further provides my top kits which includes top accessed kits. The Solution tab further provides my top wins which includes top accessed win loss reports. The Solution tab further provides my top documents which includes top accessed documents.

My Portal Reports are used to track prospects and customers buying behavior. All Customer Portals Usage Metrics provide customer portals reporting for all portals owned by the user including total user visits total duration of visits total docs viewed downloaded total visits by day. Customer Usage provide data on one specific customer portal including details for access to following resources user time spent on site docs kits pages products. Also time on site record for each email address are used. Customer Content Posting includes a list of all content posted for each portal. The content includes metadata such as document title date and posted by data. Customer Portal Opportunity Report includes all data contained on the home page of the customer portal including top business issues decision criteria next meeting contact name compelling event or project enabled and title of related customer stories. Top Content includes content used by top 20 or other percentage by way of configuration using the content manager of representations. The content includes top kits documents and win reports.

Technical Statistics provides information to improve technical performance. Top referring sites MS Explorer version or other browser platform listing of failed login attempts and failed file access can be reported.

A management dashboard is a standalone reporting component to understand the usage patterns and business analytics. No other component is required. Dashboard tasks include Kit Training Reporting to provide reporting for individuals that have reviewed specific modules Product Release Content Communication to send email with an outline of product release and new content available to enable the individual and other types of reports such as Mindshare Educational Reports and Solution Performance.

Customer Relationship Management CRM and Partner Relationship Management PRM markets have developed over the past 10 years with annual revenue growth between 20 30 . These applications focus on the customer improving customer acquisition and retention. While these applications have automated the sales process improved the efficiency of customer service and centralized key customer information they continue to lack methods for information dissemination and feedback. Training and feedback can be used to ensure the sales and service channels are certified and that customers partners and resellers have a process for providing feedback about products and services.

The intelligence center adds a CRM application programming interface API or using Microsoft.net to exchange information. Integration with a CRM SFA software platform allows users of the intelligence center to interact with and leverage data that exist within the CRM application and vice versa. The data may include contact information collateral distribution information account information account history log information and so forth. Some aspects of the integration however are specific to the targeted CRM application. For example some embodiments pass email address and email function from Microsoft Outlook or CRM to the intelligence center and or to web portal generation. Some embodiments pass collateral distribution information from the intelligence center to a CRM to associate account content.

Content from an existing repository can be moved into the intelligence center using a CSV import mechanism to provide an easy way to publish several content items at once keeping existing content in use without redundancy or programming. Content can be shared between the intelligence center and an existing content management system or portal using XML based content sharing API. Content can be published once and delivered to multiple destinations for example Plumtree Vignette Interwoven IcSolution or published where convenient and synchronize content between systems. Various embodiments integrate with Microsoft Customer Relationship Management CRM .

This disclosure refers to several figures that resemble flow diagrams. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure that the methods related to the flow diagrams may occur in the order as illustrated in the flow diagrams and may be ordered in another manner. Thus the present subject matter is not limited to a particular order or logical arrangement.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This application is intended to cover adaptations or variations of the present subject matter. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Combinations of the above embodiments portions of the above embodiments and other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the present subject matter should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

