---

title: Range of motion exerciser
abstract: A system includes a device that includes one or more bladders capable of being inflated and deflated. The system also includes an information package capable of processing data representing the inflating and deflating of the one or more bladders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09314668&OS=09314668&RS=09314668
owner: 
number: 09314668
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141121
---
This application claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 908 310 filed on Nov. 25 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to exercise equipment and more particularly to range of motion exercise equipment.

Various types of afflictions such as diseases i.e. stroke rheumatoid arthritis deformities injuries etc. can rob individuals of their physical abilities and in some cases their ability to be independent. The medical profession has researched and developed treatments over the years to aid such individuals during their recovery from such afflictions or in some cases simply learning to live with them. Affected individuals may find comfort from treatments involving massage applying heat along with other healing techniques to bring relief. However the severity of some disorders may call for more invasive treatments such as surgery proscribing drugs etc. that further extend recovery periods.

A cost effective therapeutic exercise system may aid the recovery of individual suffering from conditions such as arthritis carpal tunnel syndrome as well as other types of afflictions that limit physical function. Along with providing relief the system and its components may be utilized in other applications such as strength training and other types of activities including preventive activities.

In one aspect a system includes a device that includes one or more bladders capable of being inflated and deflated. The system also includes an information package capable of processing data representing the inflating and deflating of the one or more bladders.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. The one or more bladders may be shaped for being received by a palm of a hand. The one or more bladders may be capable of being inflated and deflated in a repetitive manner for exercising phalanges. The system may include one or more components for controlling the inflating and deflating of the one or more bladders. The one or more components for controlling the inflating and deflating of the one or more bladders may be located remote from the device. The one or more components for controlling the inflating and deflating of the one or more bladders may be located near the device. The system may include a heat controller to control the operating temperature of the device. The one or more bladders may be fluid filled. The system may include one or more communication components capable of transmitting data from the information package to a remote location. The one or more communication components may be capable of receiving data for controlling the operations of the device.

The details of one or more embodiments of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In general one or more medical treatment systems may include a device capable of allowing an individual to execute therapeutic exercises that may aid in recovery from an injury or illness assist in strength training etc. by improving the individual s movement range of motion etc. for a variety of body parts e.g. hands fingers legs neck etc. . The device may be used for a variety of afflictions including carpal tunnel syndrome and arthritis as well as stroke. For example many individuals who suffer a stroke for example may have their hand s clenched to some extent for long periods of time making it difficult and painful to open the hand s and extend the fingers. Such a device may also be employed for applications such as strength training for individuals including athletes who have injured an extremity or body part that has impacted their range of motion and or normal strength. Other applications may be found in other medical arenas along with industrial and other types of arenas whereby a desired and defined range of movement or static positioning can be redefined and achieved through utilization of the device e.g. remote appliance diagnostics . Along with being designed for any individual in some arrangement the device design may be focused for a particular type of individual. For example particular body parts that are used more naturally by individuals e.g. a left handed person a right handed person etc. . Devices may also be designed for individuals of any age e.g. infants born with physical deformities individuals who suffer from stroke or other debilitating conditions elderly individuals etc. . The device may also be gender specific e.g. male or female or gender independent. In some arrangements the device design may be driven for use by non humans for example a device may be adapted for the treatment of particular animals a range of animal types etc.

Referring to an example range of motion exercising device is presented for use in exercising an individual s hand. The device includes an air supplier that provides air to an exerciser capable of interacting with a user. In this arrangement the air supplier includes a pump that is capable of providing air to an inflatable bladder included exerciser . The bladder may be produced e.g. contoured to be easily received by a body part region of a body for a desired therapeutic range of motion positioning and or resistance. For example the bladder may be designed to be received by the palm of the hand even if the hand is clenched e.g. due to stroke . In some arrangements the bladder may be contoured to a specific extremity to achieve a prescribed range of exercise intensity. Design parameters of exercisers along with characteristics and properties may be adjusted for different applications therapeutic progression required range of movement for static applications etc. For example bladders may be designed of any shape and may employ one or more geometries of various sizes. One or more materials may be utilized in bladder construction and the materials may exhibit a variety of properties. For example properties that address material strength texture flexibility water resistance etc. may be employed. In some arrangements the bladder may include combinations of synthetic and natural materials that are flexible durable and washable. To improve durability one or more sleeves may be designed for fitting over the bladder . Such a sleeve may include a soft and flexible cover material synthetic or natural that is able to stretch over the bladder. Along with being removable the sleeve also may be machine washable. Bladder design along with other portions of the device may be designed for the general population for particular segments of the population based upon one or more demographics e.g. infants the elderly etc. for example.

Properties of the device components of the device such as the exerciser etc. may be customized for environmental variants as to further adapt to medical industrial entertainment based and other types of applications where movement and or static positioning of a body part may be beneficial. In the illustrated example the air supplier and the exerciser provide a means of exercising the phalanges of an individual s hand by allowing for extension of some or all phalanges in a manner that can be considered both comfortable and effective for patients who are unable to physically exercise their hands under their own power. In general to perform the exercises the pump is operated e.g. the bulb shaped air reservoir is squeezed to inflate the bladder for the purpose of changing the position of the target body part e.g. straightening out the phalanges from a clenched fist . The exercise motion provided by inflating the bladder can be is performed in a repetitive manner e.g. inflating and deflating repetitively to cycle the position of the phalanges between a clenched position and a straightened position . Through this operation of the device a user is enabled to manually execute a therapeutic exercise of a defined body part through the use of air pressure that opens or expands the body part to a desired range and then closes with gentle but firm air pressure. Manual interaction would be needed in the illustrated example to allow the pump to inflate the bladder however one or more automatic techniques may be implemented to reduce or even remove the need for such manual interaction e.g. provided by a healthcare worker to execute an exercise. For example one or more components may be included in the device for controlling functions associated with the device such as controlling operations of the air supplier e.g. the pump . In one arrangement such controlling components may be located on the device however such components may also be located separate from the device. Such components may also be located in a distributed manner on board the device and off board the device. As such control of the device may be provided from local remote or both local and remote components. Based on the ability to be remotely controlled individuals e.g. patients who may have difficulty visiting their healthcare providers e.g. reside in rural areas may be able to remotely receive their treatments. For example one or more communication systems e.g. telephone networks computer networks such as the Internet etc. may be employed for controlling the device. For example data e.g. commands may be sent from a remotely located control center to the device. Along with sending data to devices information may also be received from the device. For example operational information e.g. data representing periods of inflation periods of deflation etc. may be sent from the device. Data received from the device may also reflect other situations e.g. a patient may have overridden a remotely provided instruction to the device due to discomfort complication etc. for example to reflect the patient is not adhering to a rehabilitation regiment . This provided information may be utilized in a variety of applications for example to monitor and analyze treatments of individuals operations of the device etc. In the case of industrial and or appliance based applications equipment of all sizes complexity and precision tolerances can be pre configured with the device to achieve remote diagnostics and to repair in instances where such movement may rectify an issue achieve a desired outcome or allow access for reconfiguration or repair. In some arrangements thin applications may be developed on the client device side to address e.g. use the captured analyzed etc. data.

In the illustrated example the device is specifically designed to allow the user to set the degree of inflation according to comfort physician recommended level of therapy and or exercise etc. to achieve a range of movement or positions for static applications . To assist with operations additional components may be incorporated into the device . For example a safety release valve may be included to regulate the pressure within the bladder e.g. so as not to exceed a predefined pounds per square inch PSI threshold . To assist with the inflating deflating etc. of the bladder a pressure gauge may be incorporated into the device e.g. connected to the pump as illustrated along with an air release value e.g. also connected to the pump . Other types of components may be incorporated into the device.

In general the inflatable exerciser is pliable yet firm enough to supply the necessary pressure for physical therapy and also can be separated from the pump to be held in place at the desired degree of inflation for both maximum comfort and therapeutic value or a defined range of movement to achieve a desired positioning. The pump of the device can be manually operated dynamically adjusted pre set remotely etc. to a desired degree of inflation. The pump can then either be detached or deactivated while keeping the desired range in place while the individual peruses another activity e.g. watching television . The pump can come in various sizes and shapes depending on the needs of the user i.e. adult child applications . Additional features may be included in the air supplier for example the pump may be electrically powered e.g. battery operated to allow for automatic operation or to assist manual operations of an individual. Along with automatic operation operations of the device may be programmed e.g. from a remote location such as a healthcare center to provide increased flexibility and breadth. In the case of a healthcare provider i.e. physical therapist who wishes to set up a specific set of exercises and then monitor their patient s progress the intensity of exercise could increase or decrease depending upon the patient s unique progress. For a static application such progress would be monitored via a pre defined progression for that specific application.

Other components may be included in the air supplier to provide additional capabilities for example a heating source heat exchanger etc. may be included for temperature control. In some arrangements the heating source may be incorporated into the pump tubing that provides the air from the pump the bladder etc. For example one or more electrodes may be encased around the pump and the tubing to a release terminal. A sleeve may also wrap the bladder and provide heat as provided from by an energy source e.g. battery . Heating elements may also be incorporated into the bladder. In the illustrated arrangement air is provided by the pump to the exerciser however other types of fluids may be utilized e.g. one or more liquids may be used for inflating the bladder for heating cooling measurement purposes etc.

To control the flow of information to the device e.g. programmable commands from a remote location and or from the device e.g. sending measurement data to a remote location one or more measurement communication techniques etc. may be implemented. For example a variety of communication components e.g. sensors wireless transmitters receivers transceivers etc. may be incorporated into the device . Such capabilities may allow the device to accept remote instruction and communication as well as report back on the progression and or status e.g. metrics of the respective individual. The two way communication between a healthcare worker e.g. primary care physician surgeon physical therapist a responsible technical person such as an engineer etc. and a patient or an application may include a reporting feature that allows the healthcare worker the ability to capture and analyze data in order to review and assess a patient s progress and to diagnose or report on that progress while adjusting the exercise program and or applicable settings accordingly.

By allowing the device to provide information to one or more remote locations healthcare workers can be provided the ability to assess data e.g. real time data previously stored data etc. pertaining to the patient one or more conditions e.g. a target condition progression environmental changes a pre defined tolerance e.g. that allows for necessary modifications etc. Such data communication capabilities may provide various advantages such as assisting individuals residing at relatively remote locations e.g. a rural setting that does not generally easy access to healthcare where healthcare workers are unable to make onsite visits but where remote communication capabilities are available etc. . Provided this communication capability programming of device operations may be dynamically adjusted based upon information received from the device e.g. measurement exercises parameters from a local on device application etc. or other information sources e.g. a pre defined outcome desired by the healthcare worker . Examples include devices such as breathing machines that dynamically set air flow intensity through on board breathing measurements.

Referring to a device is presented that represents a variant of the device presented in . While various design changes and adjustments may be implemented the device incorporates a cushion into a bladder to improve user comfort. To receive the air from a pump the device also includes a core that may be produced from one or more materials. For example a plastic material may be used to produce a perforated air core . The device also includes a mechanism for assisting the patient with holding the device during exercise sessions. Similar to the detachable hand strap included in the device the presented device also includes a hand rest that is connected to the bladder with a light balance spring hinge . However other types of connecting mechanisms may be employed for connecting the hand rest . To assist the user with physically engaging the device one end of the hand rest also includes a mechanical hand insert guide . Other guide techniques that may be mechanical based visually based e.g. that provide one or more visual signals audio based e.g. that provide one or more tones to alert a user etc. may be used individually or in concert.

Referring to two perspective views are presented that illustrate an exerciser in operation with and without the bladder being pressurized. In particular view represents when a patient s hand has initially grasped the deflated bladder. Once the patient s fingers are clenched about the device the bladder is filled and expands to open the patient s hand and straighten their fingers as represented in view .

Referring to another device is illustrated for exercising the hand and fingers of a patient. In this example a c shaped exerciser is implemented that provides a hollow center rather the cylindrical shaped exerciser shown in . To receive air from an air supplier e.g. that includes a pump the device includes a port for air or other types of fluid . To be secured to the patient s hand a strap is included in the device however other techniques may be implemented to secure the device.

Referring to another type of device is illustrated for exercising the hand and fingers of a patient. Similar to other implementations a bladder is expanded and or contracted by air or other type of fluid provided by a pump or other type of air supplying device. One or more sensors e.g. position sensors pressure sensors accelerometers etc. may be used to gather information related to performed exercises and provide it for analysis data transfer storage etc. at local or remote locations. Similar to the device presented in an air port may be included for receiving air from an air supplier or other types of fluid.

Along with other aspects of the device the bladder may be designed based upon which hand and finger s are to be exercised. To perform an exercise a pump device may operate manually or automatically to expand and contract the bladder making the hand or finger s open and close. In some arrangements the device may also be capable of recording data that represent the progression of movement and can send this data to various recipients e.g. healthcare providers for a variety of applications e.g. to be recorded in a patient s electronic medical record . For static applications data may be recorded in an application repair history file. One or more techniques may be employed to operate the device for example the device may inflated e.g. using a pump to a recommended or comfortable support level. The device may then be disconnected from the pump and air pressure may be released as needed.

Referring to a device is presented that is capable of exercising the neck jaw etc. of an individual. As illustrated based upon the level of inflation the device can cycle between a state in which the individual s neck is somewhat free to move shown in to a state in which the individual s neck is restricted from movement shown in . Similar to the device shown in the device may be inflated with an air supplier such as a pump or by employing one or more techniques. To perform an exercise the pump or other type of air suppler is used to manually or automatically expand and contract a bladder thereby making the individual s head nod up and down. Additional features of the device may include the capability to send and receive information e.g. to and from a remote control station . For example data representing the operations of the device may be transmitted for use in applications for monitoring the individual s progress. Based upon analysis preformed feedback information may be sent to the device to appropriately adjust future exercise sessions using the device e.g. adjust inflation levels .

As represented in the device may include a variety of components such as a bladder or multiple bladders that is capable of being inflated and deflated by an air supplier e.g. a pump connected to an air port release . Along with receiving air or other types of fluid the air port release is also capable is releasing pressurized air manually or in an automatically controlled manner to deflate the bladder or bladders. An information package may include hardware software hardware and software components for transmitting and receiving data to and from one or more remote locations. Other functionality may also be provided by the information package for example operational parameters such as the range of motion frequency of motion e.g. due to localized feedback resistance etc. e.g. predefined and programmed into the device may be automated. One or more energy sources e.g. electrical batteries etc. may be included in the information package for powering components included in the device e.g. wireless communication hardware data processing equipment etc. included in the device .

In this arrangement the device employs a flexible cushion to secure the device about the individual s neck however other techniques may be utilized e.g. one or more next straps . One or more heating elements e.g. electrodes coils etc. cooling elements air cooled tubing etc. etc. may be incorporated into the device . In this arrangement the device is designed to be placed under the jaw line to the base of the neck. However device variants may allow the exercises to be focused on other regions of the neck area of the individual. Similar to some of the previously mentioned devices an exercise cycle may include inflating the device to a recommended and or comfortable support level disconnecting the bladder from the air supplier pump and releasing air pressure as needed.

Referring to a device is presented that is capable of exercising the pelvic region of an individual. In this example the device is of the general size and shape of a pillow that includes one or more bladders that may contour to the pillow shape. Additionally the device may include a pump not shown or other type of air supplier. Such a device may be used for a variety of exercises such as exercise regimens for relieving pain and pressure to lower back and pelvic area due to injury. For another application device may be used to aid sleep comfort e.g. sciatica . For one technique the device is positioned between the upper thighs of the individual. Lying on one side the bladder inside the pillow can be expanded and deflated for the purpose of exercise e.g. 10 to 6 . For a sleep comfort application a desired degree of inflation may be set to a relatively static level e.g. three to five inches of separation between the pillow walls of the device . Similar to the other devices presented the device may include components equipment etc. for sending and receiving information associated with the use of the device. For example exercise cycles may be represented by data that reflects the inflating and deflating of the device . Position sensors may also be included in the device for measuring the level of movement during sleeping period for measuring restless sleep patterns or other quantities. The device may be implemented to a variety of geometrical shapes sizes etc. For example a device may have a length on the order of ten inches a width of ten inches and be capable of expanding to a thickness of between six to ten inches. One or more of these dimensions may be increased or decreased for producing other devices. Similarly the size and shape of the device may be alternated in some designs. Portable form fitting design features may be employed. For example overlays may be produced for one or more types of mattresses e.g. dependent upon material and thereby account and use contour posture and other types of information for applications e.g. diagnostic feedback .

Referring to devices are presented that is capable of exercising back shoulder and other regions in this general area of an individual. Along with possible use for executing exercises to relieve back pain the device may be used to strengthen the posture of the individual. One or more design techniques may be implemented for positioning the device. For example presents a device that includes a wrap e.g. of stretchable material for supporting and positioning a bladder or multiple bladders at a back region of the individual near the spine. In this design the one or more sensors are embedded into the wrap for collecting various types of information e.g. position information for alignment movement information temperature etc. . An information package may include hardware software hardware and software components e.g. inclusive of thin on device clients for transmitting and receiving data to and from one or more remote locations. Sensing measurements etc. may be provided by hardware software combinations of hardware and software. Algorithmic analysis may also be employed e.g. for high tolerance feedback. In one example accurate measurement of outer boundaries can be attained for a static environment a dynamic range of motion etc. For such situations such measurements may provide information for a three dimensional 3D output device to provide a fixed therapeutic solution or part for a static application . In some cases bladder motion and measurements may yields data to optimize comfort and or fit while the 3D device can dynamically output the resulting design. Other functionality may also be provided by the information package for example one or more energy sources e.g. electrical batteries etc. may be included in the package for powering components included in the device e.g. wireless communication hardware data processing equipment etc. included in the device . In this example the information package also provides access to the bladder e.g. one or more values for receiving and releasing air or other types of fluids capable of filling the bladder.

To position the bladder upon the back of an individual variants of the device may be produced. For example presents a device that employs straps to position a bladder or multiple bladders onto an individual s back. Various type of straps that employ different geometries materials etc. may be used for positioning the device at particular locations e.g. at the location of an injury pain rehabilitation needs etc. . Similar to the other devices a pump not shown or other air supplier is used to deliver fluid such as air to the bladder or bladders of the device. In general the device or is inconspicuous and comfortable. In one application the bladder may inflate automatically when the sensor detects poor posture and then deflates once posture is corrected. This information along with other information may be sent via the information package to one or more recipients such as healthcare providers. Referring to a variety of bladder types may be implemented for example a bladder that has a generally plank shape of various thicknesses may be used to conform to the shape of an individual back. Layers may also be incorporated for example a hard skin layer e.g. inch thick may be followed by a bladder e.g. 3 16 inch thick and a gel layer e.g. inch think that is positioned adjacent to the individual s back.

Referring to another implementation of a device is presented for assisting an individual with exercising an afflicted region of his or her body. In this implementation a device includes a series of eight separated bladders for assisting in the exercising of the individual s abdomen. While this example includes eight bladders more or less bladders may be included in similar devices. Each bladder may be individually inflated and deflated in this example through the operations of a corresponding value included in a collection of values e.g. value can control the inflating and deflating of bladder . Similar to the previously presented device an information package e.g. that includes hardware software etc. that is capable of providing a number of functions including transmitting and receiving data associated with the operation of the device to and from one or more remote locations. The information package may also provide one or more energy sources e.g. electrical batteries etc. for powering components included in the device e.g. wireless communication hardware data processing equipment valve operation etc. components external to the device etc. In some arrangements the information package assists with one or more bladders receiving and releasing air or other types of fill fluids. This includes combinations of temperature and motion in simultaneous fashion.

One or more design may be implemented for producing such a wrap based device. In this example a flexible material is employed to stretch the device about the torso of the individual however additional materials may also be employed. Further one or more fastening techniques may be implemented to secure the device for example one or more Velcro straps may be used for appropriately positioning the device. Additional functionality may also be incorporated into the device for example one or more heating or cooling elements may be incorporated into the device. In one implementation individually controllable heating elements may be incorporated into each bladder for applying heat to a corresponding region of the individual s abdomen to aid healing e.g. of a broken rib provide treatment e.g. after a surgical procedure exercise e.g. to improve posture etc. . Similarly a cooling element may be implemented to assist with healing e.g. burns sprains etc. . During one example session of using the device a pump not shown can be used to inflate one or more e.g. all of the bladders in the wrap to provide the appropriate tightness and support in an affected area. The information package may collect information e.g. via one or more sensors included in the device to provide a variety of information to one or more remote sited e.g. a remotely located control station manned by healthcare professionals .

Wraps vests etc. similar to the wrap used with device may be used for a variety of applications. For example for aiding individuals with disorders such as sleep disorders. As the device is being worn about the torso a pump or other type of air supplier may be used to apply pressure when a sensor e.g. included in the device detects a lag in breathing time thereby assisting the individual s diaphragm to contract and the person to breathe.

In other applications device variants may be used for assisting with the positioning of objects during procedures such as surgical procedures. For example one or more bladders may be used to provide lift and support of various body parts instruments etc. during surgical procedures. In one arrangement an air bladder of a device could be used to safely move organs tissue and veins for example for creating more visibility in area of the individual being operated upon. In another example bladders may be designed for use in a relatively small area such as the human brain. Through their use tissues veins etc. present in the brain may be moved during surgical procedures to create more visibility and flexibility for the surgeon as well as a wider field of operation. On a larger scale a variant of the device could be incorporated into the hospital bed to aid in lifting patients e.g. inflating a flattened bladder could assist with raise numerous types of body parts . Such a device could reduce the physical strain on healthcare professionals e.g. nurses and thereby reduce the amount of work days lost due to injuries related to lifting and moving patients. Such devices may also be used for adjusting and supporting portions of a body such as the back legs arms etc. as needed. In yet another application such devices may be used for stimulating regions of the body. For example the device may be used in the treatment of sexual disorders or for enhancing intimate relations e.g. enlarging sexual orifices such as the vagina and anus etc. . Similar to using such device with human individuals the device or variants of the devices may be designed and produced for use with non humans. For example devices may be produced for use with any part of an animal s body to aid in exercise healing treatments etc. In one arrangement device including one or more air bladders could be used as a neck collar to help train show dogs in learning correct head posture. Similarly the device might be used to help a dog regain strength and keep afloat while in a marine environment as the dog heals from any kind of injury etc.

Referring to a computing environment is presented that includes a device similar to the device shown in that is capable of transmitting receiving etc. data from one or more remote devices locations etc. In this example a data manager is executed on the device e.g. by an information package included in the device . In some arrangements an intelligent thin client may dependent on application may be able to capture data apply measurement algorithms volume distance to outer boundaries 3D outlining and range to exchange data with the device and one or more remotely located computing devices. A variety of communication techniques protocols application and algorithm development techniques etc. may be employed by the device and the data manager for compiling transmitting receiving analyzing data etc. In this illustrated example the device is capable of exchanging data with a healthcare service center e.g. a healthcare professional s office a hospital an emergency service vehicle etc. that may be capable using data from the device e.g. process data analyze data store data etc. . One or more communication techniques e.g. wireless communication may be employed to send exchange data for example the device may be capable for directly exchanging data with the healthcare service center via one or more networks e.g. the Internet . In some arrangements one or more computing devices e.g. executing applications may assist in the creation compiling transfer of information from the device and the healthcare service center etc. For example a tablet computing device e.g. using an executed application or app or a cellular telephone e.g. a smartphone or other type of computing device e.g. with wireless communication capabilities may be used for passing data between the device and the center e.g. by way of the Internet .

Data manager may take one or more forms such as a software agent to provide functionality that may include data creation initial analysis compilation transfer etc. Such agents can be considered a software module that is executable in a substantially autonomous manner. For example upon being executed a software agent may operate without considerable user interaction. By operating in a somewhat flexible manner the software agent can adaptively address needs such as data collection transmission reception etc. The software agent may operate in a somewhat persistent manner for example the software agent may execute in a substantially continuous manner.

In this particular example the healthcare service center may implement a variety of computing devices and equipment for interacting with the device and any potential intermediate devices e.g. the tablet computing device the cellular telephone etc. . To provide this functionality the healthcare service center includes a server that executes a data service manager e.g. implemented in software hardware a combination of software and hardware etc. . Along with managing data exchanges with the device along with other devices the data service manager may also provide other functionality. For example data collected from a device e.g. the device may be analyzed compiled in a predefined manner processed and stored by the data service manager in one or more storage devices e.g. a storage device located at the healthcare service center at one or more sites external to the center or both.

The system may provide scalable stores for storing data resources. The client device may upload data resources to the hosted storage service and control access to the uploaded data resources. Access control may include a range of sharing levels e.g. private shared with one or more individuals shared with one or more groups public etc. . Data stored in hosted storage service can be secured from unauthorized access. The hosted storage service can use a simple and consistent application programming interface or API which can allow arbitrary quantities of structured or unstructured data to be kept private or shared between individuals organizations or with the world at large. The client device may access retrieve be provided store etc. data in the hosted storage service for any number of a variety of reasons. For example data may be stored for business reasons e.g. provide identification information to attain access clearance for device data commands etc. at the hosted storage service or for use in data processing by other services or historic analysis.

The client device may be implemented using a computing device such as the computing device or the mobile device described with respect to . The client device may communicate with the hosted storage service via a network such as the Internet. The client device may communicate across the network using communication protocols such as one or more of Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Shell Remote Protocol SSH or Application Program Interfaces API . Electronic mail e mail protocols may also be utilized. For example one or more e mail protocols may be used for providing information e.g. data commands etc. to a device e.g. the device from the hosted storage service a computing device such as the computing device or the mobile device etc. While only a single client device is shown there may be multiple client devices communicating across the network with the hosted storage service and or other services and devices.

The hosted storage service may be implemented such that client applications executed on client device such as a client application may store retrieve or otherwise manipulate data resources in the hosted storage service . The hosted storage service may be implemented by one or more server devices which may be implemented using a computing device such as the computing device or mobile device described with respect to . For example the hosted storage service may be implemented by multiple server devices operating in the same or different data centers.

The hosted storage service generally includes an interface frontend an interface backend a storage backend and metadata for resources stored in the storage backend . The hosted storage service may also include an authenticator to verify that a user requesting data commands etc. should be provided access e.g. based on a service subscription rental period etc. .

In general the interface frontend may receive requests from and send responses to the client device . For instance the hosted storage service may be implemented as a Web Service with a corresponding set of Web Service Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The Web Service APIs may be implemented for example as a Representational State Transfer REST based HTTP interface or a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP based interface. Interface frontend may receive messages from the client and parse the requests into a format usable by the hosted storage service such as a remote procedure call RPC to an interface backend . The interface frontend may write responses generated by the hosted storage service for transmission to the client . In some implementations multiple interface frontends may be implemented to support multiple access protocols for example.

The interface frontend may include a graphical frontend for example to display on a web browser for data access. The interface frontend may include a sub system to enable managed uploads and downloads of large files e.g. for functionality such as pause resume and recover from time out . The interface frontend may monitor load information and update logs for example to track and protect against denial of service DOS attacks.

As described above the Web Service API may be a REST based HTTP interface. In a REST based interface a data resource is accessed as a resource uniquely named using a uniform resource identifier URI and the client application and service exchange representations of resource state using a defined set of operations. For example requested actions may be represented as verbs such as by HTTP GET PUT POST HEAD and DELETE verbs. The GET verb may be used to retrieve a resource while the HEAD verb may be used to retrieve information about a resource without retrieving the resource itself. The DELETE verb may be used to delete a resource from the hosted storage service . The PUT and POST verbs may be used to upload a resource to the service . PUT requests may come from the client and contain authentication and authorization credentials and resource metadata in a header such as an HTTP header. POST requests may be received when a client wants to upload from a web browser form. The form POST upload protocol for the hosted storage service may involve multiple form fields to provide authentication authorization and resource metadata. More generally any of the API requests may include credentials for authentication and authorization for example in a header of the request. An authorization header may be included in the REST requests which may include an access key to identify the entity sending the request.

Alternatively or additionally a user may be authenticated based on credentials stored in a browser cookie which may be appended to the API requests. If no valid cookie is present a redirect to an authentication frontend may be generated and the authentication frontend may be used to generate the browser cookie. The authentication frontend may be used by systems and services in addition to the hosted storage service e.g. if the organization operating the hosted storage service also operates other web services such as email service . A user may also or alternatively be authenticated based on authentication credentials from an external credentialing service or an external service that includes credentialing functionality. User or group identifier information may be calculated from the external service s credential information. Requests sent by the client to the interface frontend may be translated and forwarded to the external service for authentication.

In general resources stored in the hosted storage service may be referenced by resource identifiers. The hosted storage service may define namespaces to which a valid resource identifier must conform. For example the namespace may require that resource identifiers be a sequence of Unicode characters whose UTF 8 encoding is at most 1024 bytes long. As another example the namespace may require that resource identifiers be globally unique identifiers GUIDs which may be 128 bit integers.

Resources e.g. objects such as font data may be stored in hosted storage service in buckets. In some examples each bucket is uniquely named in the hosted storage service each data resource is uniquely named in a bucket and every bucket and data resource combination is unique. Data resources may be uniquely identified by a URI that includes the bucket name and the resource name and identifies the hosted storage service . Alternatively the user of the client may create a bucket. In some examples buckets do not nest.

The interface backend along with the authenticator may handle request authentication and authorization manage data and metadata and track activity such as for billing moreover potentially for a remote physical therapy session or remote serve call application. As one example the interface backend may query the authenticator when a request for one or more fonts is received. The interface backend may also provide additional or alternative functionality. For example the interface backend may provide functionality for independent frontend backend scaling for resource utilization and responsiveness under localized heavy loads. Data management may be encapsulated in the interface backend while communication serving may be encapsulated in the interface frontend . The interface backend may isolate certain security mechanisms from the client facing interface frontend .

The interface backend may expose an interface usable by both the interface frontend and other systems. In some examples some features of the interface backend are accessible only by an interface frontend not shown used by the owners of the hosted storage service internal users . Such features may include those needed for administrative tasks e.g. resolving a resource reference to a low level disk address hosted therapeutic services etc. The interface backend may handle request authentication e.g. ensuring a user s credentials are valid and authorization e.g. verifying that a requested operation is permitted . The interface backend may also provide encryption and decryption services to prevent unauthorized access to data even by internal users.

The interface backend may manage metadata associated with data resources for example in a MySQL database. User specified names that label the buckets can be completely defined within the metadata and resource metadata can map a resource name to one or more datastores storing the resource. The metadata can also contain bucket and resource creation times resource sizes hashes and access control lists ACL for both buckets and resources. The interface backend can log activity and track storage consumption to support accounting for billing and chargebacks. In some examples this includes quota monitoring in each dimension in which customers are charged e.g. reads writes network transfers total storage in use .

The ACLs may generally define who is authorized to perform actions on corresponding buckets or resources and the nature of the permitted actions. The ACLs may be an unordered list of scope role pairs plus Boolean flags. The scope may define a user or group of users and the role may define the access permissions for the user or group. In some examples the union of all scope role pairs may define access rights. In some examples more specific scope role pairs override more general ones.

The storage backend may contain multiple datastores . Although three datastores are shown more or fewer are possible. Each of the datastores may store data resources in a particular format. For example data store may store a data resource as a binary object data store may store a data resource in a distributed file system e.g. Network File System and data store may store a data resource in a database.

Computing device includes processor memory storage device high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of components and are interconnected using various busses and can be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. Processor can process instructions for execution within computing device including instructions stored in memory or on storage device to display graphical data for a GUI on an external input output device including e.g. display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple busses can be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices can be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

Memory stores data within computing device . In one implementation memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. Memory also can be another form of computer readable medium e.g. a magnetic or optical disk. Memory may be non transitory. 

Storage device is capable of providing mass storage for computing device . In one implementation storage device can be or contain a computer readable medium e.g. a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices such as devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in a data carrier. The computer program product also can contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods e.g. those described above. The data carrier is a computer or machine readable medium e.g. memory storage device memory on processor and the like. 

High speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for computing device while low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is an example only. In one implementation high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which can accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which can include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet can be coupled to one or more input output devices e.g. a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device including a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter. 

Computing device can be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it can be implemented as standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It also can be implemented as part of rack server system . In addition or as an alternative it can be implemented in a personal computer e.g. laptop computer . In some examples components from computing device can be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown e.g. device . Each of such devices can contain one or more of computing device and an entire system can be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes processor memory an input output device e.g. display communication interface and transceiver among other components. Device also can be provided with a storage device e.g. a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components can be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

Processor can execute instructions within computing device including instructions stored in memory . The processor can be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor can provide for example for coordination of the other components of device e.g. control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor can communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to display . Display can be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. Display interface can comprise appropriate circuitry for driving display to present graphical and other data to a user. Control interface can receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to processor . In addition external interface can communicate with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface can provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces also can be used.

Memory stores data within computing device . Memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory also can be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which can include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory can provide extra storage space for device or also can store applications or other data for device . Specifically expansion memory can include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and can include secure data also. Thus for example expansion memory can be provided as a security module for device and can be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications can be provided through the SIMM cards along with additional data e.g. placing identifying data on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner. 

The memory can include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in a data carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods e.g. those described above. The data carrier is a computer or machine readable medium e.g. memory expansion memory and or memory on processor which can be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device can communicate wirelessly through communication interface which can include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface can provide for communications under various modes or protocols e.g. GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication can occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication can occur e.g. using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module can provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which can be used as appropriate by applications running on device . Sensors and modules such as cameras microphones compasses accelerators for orientation sensing etc. may be included in the device.

Device also can communicate audibly using audio codec which can receive spoken data from a user and convert it to usable digital data. This provides the capability for speech to text and text to speech applications for remote onsite feedback and situational reporting of progress or onsite visual observation as well as written prescribed routine that can be received remotely in audible form. Audio codec can likewise generate audible sound for a user e.g. through a speaker in a handset of device . Such sound can include sound from voice telephone calls can include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files and the like and also can include sound generated by applications operating on device .

Computing device can be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it can be implemented as cellular telephone . It also can be implemented as part of smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed and programmed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor. The programmable processor can be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device e.g. a 3D output device .

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium refer to a computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a device for displaying data to the user e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be a form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in a form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a backend component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a frontend component e.g. a client computer executed application etc. having a user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or a combination of such back end middleware or frontend components. The components of the system can be interconnected by a form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In some implementations the engines described herein can be separated combined or incorporated into a single or combined engine. The engines depicted in the figures are not intended to limit the systems described here to the software architectures shown in the figures.

Referring to other types of designs and functionality may be incorporated into exercising devices. For example as illustrated in the figure an individual finger exercising device is capable of controlling the extending of individual fingers. Additionally multiple capabilities are incorporated into the exercising device e.g. an integrated self contained pump mechanism . In general the exercising device can communicate to an application being executed on one or more computing devices e.g. a smart phone computer system tablet computing device etc. or as a stand alone dedicated device through one or more protocols e.g. a wireless protocols such as Bluetooth Wifi etc. In some arrangements the application can be considered as a thin application client or program that depends upon a separate computing device to fulfill its computational role s . The exercising device may be controlled e.g. by a user healthcare professional etc. through the executed application. In this particular design the exercising device includes a flexible hand strap to stabilize the device during periods of exercise. Multiple bladders are included in the device and may be ergonomically contoured to the fingers of the user. For demonstrative purposes inflatable bladder is illustrated as being individually extended and to accept one or two fingers compared to the positions of bladders and . also illustrates a strap to assist in holding a finger or fingers in place when exercising to a closed position. In some arrangements multiple straps pockets etc. may be employed to provide such functionality. Such a capability may be considered important for individuals who suffer from an injury affliction etc. wherein they have difficulty forming a first with their fingers bending individual fingers etc. The exercising device also includes an information package that provides functionality such as a connection to charge the device e.g. a micro USB and transfer data e.g. when wireless data transfer is not active or provided by the information package . Along with providing communication capabilities e.g. data transfer functionality the information package also includes a self contained pump and corresponding control circuitry for controlling the inflating and deflating of the respective bladders 

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the processes and techniques described herein. In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps can be provided or steps can be eliminated from the described flows and other components can be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

