---

title: Provision of broadband access to airborne platforms
abstract: An air to ground (ATG) broadband access system is described. The system includes: a plurality of cell sites that together form a service coverage area, each cell site adapted to generate a local coverage area, each sell site including: multiple antenna fixtures situated at a lower corner of the local coverage area, where the local coverage area includes multiple sectors and each antenna fixture is associated with a different sector than each other antenna fixture; and a radio sub-system connected to each antenna fixture, the radio sub-system including a transmitter capable of modulating and transmitting signals through the antenna fixture and a receiver capable of demodulating and decoding signals received through the antenna fixture; and at least one aerial platform including: at least one antenna fixture capable of forming beams toward the cell site; and a radio sub-system capable of modulating and transmitting signals and demodulating and decoding signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09385803&OS=09385803&RS=09385803
owner: UBiQOMM, INC.
number: 09385803
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140328
---
Many aerial platforms such as airplanes and drones or Unmanned Aerial vehicles UAVs may desire broadband access.

A number of systems have in recent years been developed and deployed to provide internet access to aircraft. Some such systems are satellite based. Some such systems utilize Air To Ground ATG systems e.g. using an 800 MHz band . Such ATG systems may deploy as many as one hundred or more cell sites across the U.S. to provide connectivity to the aircraft flying over the CONtinental U.S. CONUS . These systems have been quite successful in providing connectivity to the passengers. The data rate requirements have however increased and there is a need for much higher data rates and at low cost. Multi beam satellite systems primarily deployed in the Ka band can provide such high capacity. The satellite systems are however expensive because of the high cost of the space segment as well as the high cost of the satellite antennas. The Federal Communications Commission FCC has recently issued a Notice of Proposed Rule Making NPRM to allow the use of the Ku or 14 14.5 GHz band for the use of an ATG system.

The use of the 14 14.5 GHz band for ATG deployment is contingent upon protecting the incumbent satellite services in this band. The ATG cell sites must be designed in such a way as to achieve the low emission limits toward Geo Stationary satellites that will be imposed by the FCC.

Thus there is a need for a way to provide high speed broadband access that utilizes the Ku band having almost 500 MHz of spectrum to provide very high data rates cost efficiently while generating emissions that are within the imposed limits.

Some embodiments allow air to ground ATG broadband access. Such access may be provided over a coverage area using multiple cell sites where each cell site serves a portion of the coverage area. Each cell site may include at least one antenna sub system and at least one radio sub system. The cell site may be associated with multiple sectors that form the portion of the coverage area served by the cell site. Each cell site may include multiple antenna fixtures where each antenna fixture may be associated with a different radio sub system. The antenna fixtures may be arranged such that each antenna fixture is associated with a different sector.

Some embodiments may be able to send data from each cell site to one or more aerial platforms and or receive data at the cell site from one or more aerial platforms. Each aerial platform may include a radio sub system and antenna sub system that are able to be communicatively coupled to at least one antenna sub system and associated radio sub system included in the cell site. Each aerial platform may select from among the sub systems associated with different sectors based at least partly on a calculated quality measure associated with each available set of sector sub systems. The aerial platform may initiate a handover from one sector to another based at least partly on a comparison of quality measures associated with each sector.

A first exemplary embodiment provides an ATG broadband access system including multiple cell sites that together form a service coverage area each cell site adapted to generate a local coverage area that forms a portion of the service coverage area each sell site including multiple antenna fixtures situated at a lower corner of the local coverage area where the local coverage area includes a plurality of sectors and each antenna fixture is associated with a different sector than each other antenna fixture and a radio sub system connected to each antenna fixture the radio sub system including a transmitter capable of modulating and transmitting signals through the antenna fixture and a receiver capable of demodulating and decoding signals received through the antenna fixture and at least one aerial platform including at least one antenna fixture capable of forming beams toward the cell site and a radio sub system capable of modulating and transmitting signals and demodulating and decoding signals.

A second exemplary embodiment provides an automated method adapted to provide ATG broadband access service to a service coverage area. The method includes dividing the service coverage area into multiple cell site coverage areas each cell site coverage area including multiple sectors providing multiple antenna fixtures associated with each cell site each antenna fixture associated with a particular sector of the cell site coverage area and providing a radio sub system connected to each antenna fixture wherein the radio sub system is able to communicate with at least one aerial platform having at least one antenna fixture.

A third exemplary embodiment provides a system adapted to provide ATG broadband access. The system includes multiple cell sites each cell site including a radio sub system and an antenna sub system at least one aircraft comprising a radio sub system and an antenna sub system capable of communicating with the cell site radio and antenna sub systems and at least one network that is able to be accessed by each cell site in the plurality of cell sites.

The preceding Summary is intended to serve as a brief introduction to various features of some exemplary embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments may be implemented in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the invention.

The following detailed description is of the best currently contemplated modes of carrying out exemplary embodiments of the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention as the scope of the invention is best defined by the appended claims.

Various inventive features are described below that can each be used independently of one another or in combination with other features. Broadly some embodiments of the present invention generally provide a way to deliver broadband access to aerial platforms.

Each cell site may include a cell site antenna sub system a cell site radio sub system and or other appropriate elements. The airborne platform may be an aircraft a drone or Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV helicopter etc. Throughout this specification the term aircraft may be used to refer to any of the above mentioned airborne vehicles and or other appropriate vehicles .

Each aircraft may have an aircraft antenna sub system and an aircraft radio sub system attached to the antenna sub system . The cell site antenna sub system may provide coverage to the aircraft flying in its coverage area while maintaining emissions toward a geo arc that are below a specified limit. Such a geo arc may include multiple satellites. The cell site radio sub system may include a transmitter adapted to modulate data and send the data through the antenna fixture a receiver adapted to demodulate and decode the signal received from the antenna fixture a processor adapted to perform functions such as controlling the transmitter and receiver executing handoffs scheduling transmissions on downlink and uplink and determining what data to send to the aerial platforms among other tasks memory sub system may store program code configuration data and or system parameters.

The aerial platform radio sub system may include the same functional sub elements as that of the cell site radio sub system aerial platform memory processor transmitter and receiver sub systems respectively. Cell site may be connected to the internet and or other networks such as local area networks wireless networks cellular networks etc. . The cell site may be connected to the internet and or other networks via one or more network interfaces. The radio communication protocol supported by the radio sub systems and must be able to schedule transmissions to the different aircraft in its coverage area compensate for the large Doppler frequency caused by the high speed of the aircraft and operate at large distances e.g. three hundred kilometers or more .

Since the distance between the aircraft and the cell site may be quite large and it is also desirable to achieve high data rates to the aircraft the cell site antenna sub system may be able to transmit high Effective Isotropic Radiated Power EIRP toward the aircraft while limiting the emission toward the geo satellite .

The antenna gain difference between the left most sector and that of the middle sector may be computed by normalizing the side of the hexagonal coverage area to be unity. Then the distance from the lower corner of the cell site where the antenna panels . . . are installed to the farthest corner of the middle sector is two whereas the distance to the corner of the left most sector is unity. Assuming free space propagation the path loss to the farthest corner for the middle sector is six dB higher than that of the left most sector . Thus to achieve the same signal strength at the edge of the two sectors and the antenna panel associated with sector may be four times narrower in width than that of the panel associated with the middle sector . Therefore in order to minimize the area that the antenna panels . . . occupy the size of each antenna panel may be chosen to achieve the same signal strength at the edge of the coverage area of the different sectors . . . . Each antenna panel . . . may be oriented toward the farthest point in the associated sector . . . . Therefore as shown in a magnified view of the antenna sub system the antenna panels . . . may be installed on a curved structure at the edge of the hexagonal area taking into account the changing orientation and width of each panel . . . to achieve the same signal strength at the outer edge of each corresponding sector . . . .

In the following description suffix j j an integer may be used to depict the j th instantiation of a component. As an aircraft is moving from the coverage area of sector to sector 1 the aircraft may be handed off from the cell site radio sub system serving sector to cell site radio sub system 1 serving sector 1 . Each radio sub system may be associated with one or more antenna systems 

The 14 14.5 GHz band being considered for ATG application may be used in a Time Division Duplex TDD manner where either an aircraft or a cell site is transmitting on the frequency band at a given time. Therefore an air interface which can be configured in a TDD fashion is needed. One such air interface is a variation of Carrier Sense Multiple Access Collision Detection CSMA CD . The advantage of a protocol similar to the CSMA CD is that it allows dynamic allocation of bandwidth on the downlink cell site to aircraft and on the uplink aircraft to cell site . In CSMA CD protocols such as the one used in the 802.11 family of standards also known as wifi a receiver associated with each communication device e.g. components associated with an aircraft or a cell site may monitor the channel to determine whether the channel is idle i.e. no device is transmitting . Once the channel is found to be idle then each device will further wait a random time period referred to as backoff time. If a device finds the channel is still idle at the end of the backoff period then the device may begin transmission. The random backoff wait time before transmission is intended to minimize probability of collisions included as part of the collision detection or avoidance of the protocol.

There are however situations where some of the devices in the network cannot detect transmissions of some other devices referred to as the hidden node problem. In cases where two devices cannot receive each other s signals a second device may start transmission while the first device is also transmitting because the second device cannot detect that the first device is transmitting. To remedy the hidden node issue some protocols such as the 802.11 standard have a mechanism referred to as Request To Send Clear To Send RTS CTS . A device upon finding that the channel is idle sends an RTS message to some central Access Point AP requesting permission to use the channel for a certain time interval. The AP is in a location where it can receive signals from all other devices within a certain area. The AP upon reception of the RTS packet from a device will send a CTS message granting the request of the device. The CTS packet will also contain a data field that contains the length of time the device is allowed to occupy the channel. Since all devices in the network can receive signals from the AP the devices all decode the CTS packet read the data field indicating the length of time the channel will be occupied and will avoid accessing the channel during the reserved time period.

The hidden node problem described above is particularly problematic in an ATG application. If the aircraft antenna is directional and is pointing toward the cell site then it is easy to see that two different aircraft traveling along a line parallel to a cell site cannot receive each other s transmissions. Due to the large ATG cell site radius of as high as for example three hundred kilometers the RTS CTS mechanism described above cannot solve the hidden node problem in the ATG application. The example sectored cell site of shows an aircraft at a cell edge which may be for example three hundred kilometers from the cell site and an aircraft closer to the cell site e.g. thirty kilometers from the cell site .

The propagation delay from the aircraft and to the cell site may be for example one millisecond and one tenth of a millisecond respectively. It may take slightly more than two tenths of a millisecond for aircraft to send an RTS and receive a CTS from the cell site . Then aircraft may start transmission believing it has clear use of the channel. Aircraft however may only see the CTS about eight tenths of a millisecond after aircraft has received the CTS. Therefore during the eight tenths of a millisecond time interval aircraft will see the channel as idle and may attempt to acquire the channel thereby causing a collision with data transmission of aircraft . The reason RTS CTS works well in the wireless local area network application is that the relative delay of different devices to the AP is very small. Therefore a different mechanism is required to avoid collision among different aircraft transmitters.

In some embodiments channel bandwidth allocated to the downlink and to the uplink is the same. In other words for a certain time period the cell site radio sub system may transmit on the entire channel bandwidth on the downlink and then the different aircraft radio sub systems may take turns to transmit on the uplink. The following discussion describes a data transmission cycle whereby the aircraft via radio sub system register with the cell site radio sub system which schedules downlink and uplink transmissions for the equal downlink uplink bandwidth scenario.

In the example of three aircraft and are located in a single sector . The cell site may transmit signals to the aircraft and . Such transmissions may provide various beacons messages data packets and or other appropriate information. Likewise each aircraft and may transmit a signal and respectively to the cell site . Such transmissions may include various messages data packets and or other appropriate information.

The example of shows a message flow sequence among multiple aircraft j 1 2 3 in this example and cell site radio sub system . Each aircraft j 1 2 3 may detect beacon signals sent by cell site radio sub system send association messages to the cell site send a bandwidth request message for uplink data transmissions receive a grant message from the cell site and then send data via packets to the cell site .

The cell site via radio sub system associated with the sector may send data packets and to aircraft and respectively. Periodically cell site radio sub system may transmit a beacon signal to all aircraft in the sector. Each aircraft j 1 2 3 at power up may search all frequency channels in a listing of available channels until a beacon signal is detected. Aircraft radio sub systems j 1 2 3 may search a given frequency channel for at least a length of time that spans one beacon transmission period from the cell site radio sub system . The beacon transmission period is a default number known to all aircraft radio sub systems. Upon receiving the beacon signal aircraft radio sub system may send an association message to the cell site radio sub system to register with the system. The association message may also contain a bandwidth request from aircraft . Since the association message is quite short and the relative delay of different aircraft in a sector are much larger than the duration of the association packet there is a negligible probability that association packets from different aircraft will collide.

The cell site processor may schedule time for the different aircraft in the sector or sectors and may send a bandwidth grant message to all aircraft in the sector with information on when the different aircraft may send data and how long each aircraft may occupy the channel. Since the cell site radio sub system has information on the location of the different aircraft in a sector a scheduler may delay different aircraft transmissions in such a way that each aircraft starts transmission as soon as possible while avoiding packet overlap at the cell site receiver . Each aircraft may send data packets to the cell site radio sub system . Each aircraft may send an explicit bandwidth request message or piggyback the bandwidth request on the last data packet to request bandwidth for the next data round.

One approach to detecting when to carry out handoff involves monitoring the position coordinates of the aircraft and initiating handoff when the aircraft crosses a boundary between two sectors. If handoff is needed then the aerial platform radio sub system may send a communication including an association message and a bandwidth request message to the radio sub system associated with sector . The aircraft radio sub system may also send a disassociation message to the radio sub system associated with the current sector informing that the aircraft intends to stop communicating with the current sub system . Cell site radio sub system in turn may send a communication including a beacon signal and a bandwidth grant message to the aircraft acknowledging the association as well assigning bandwidth on the uplink to the aircraft. This message transaction sequence completes the handoff.

Instead of using aircraft position location to initiate handoff the aircraft radio sub system may estimate a quality measure such as Signal to Interference to Noise Ratio SINR on the transmission from cell site radio sub system which may include a beacon signal and or data packets. If the SINR drops below a threshold handoff may be initiated.

Also the aircraft radio sub system may send the aircraft position as well as SINR measurements on the beacons sent by each sector to the cell site and allow the cell site radio sub system to initiate handoff.

In another aspect of handoff initiation scheme the aircraft radio sub system may contain an additional receiver that searches for frequencies in adjacent sectors and estimates SINR of the beacon signals sent in adjacent sectors. When SINR of a beacon signal in an adjacent sector becomes stronger than the SINR of the signal received in the current sector the handoff may be initiated.

Adjacent sectors may use different frequencies or different antenna polarizations. Therefore the aircraft radio sub system must search at least a second frequency being transmitted by any adjacent sectors while receiving on a first frequency being transmitted by the current serving sector. Moreover if adjacent sectors have different antenna polarization then the aircraft antenna sub system must also have two different polarizations and the aircraft radio sub system must search a second antenna polarization for beacons sent from adjacent sectors while receiving data on a first polarization from the current serving sector.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the systems components and or features described above in reference to may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance different embodiments may include different specific components e.g. additional components omitted components merged components divided components etc. . In addition different embodiments may include different specific numbers of components e.g. number of sectors and thus associated system elements for each cell site different numbers of aircraft etc. than those described above.

The process may allow aerial platform radio sub systems to acquire a channel and to send and or receive data. As shown the process may send at one or more beacon signals to any aerial platforms within receiving range. Next the process may determine at whether a response has been received from any aerial platforms. Such a response may be generated by using the aerial platform radio sub system to decode the beacon signal. If the process determines that no response has been received the process may repeat operations until the process determines at that a response has been received.

If the process determines at that a response has been received the process may receive at association and bandwidth request messages included with the response. Next the process may send at bandwidth grant messages to any responding aerial platforms. Such messages may specify the time each aerial platform is allowed to start transmission the length of time each aerial platform is allowed to occupy the channel and the frequency channel on which the platform will transmit. The process may then transfer at data among any responding aerial platforms during the scheduled time period for each platform and then may end.

In some embodiments in order to minimize interference at the sector boundaries aerial platforms and cell site radio sub systems may use different frequencies in adjacent sectors. The available spectrum may be divided into even and odd numbered frequency channels. Then frequency channels may be assigned to the sectors in an even and odd pattern. In other words frequency channels used for communication among the aerial platforms and cell site radio sub systems in each sector are different from any adjacent sector. This results in a frequency reuse of two pattern in the sense that each frequency channel gets used in one of two sectors.

In some embodiments the available frequency band is divided into an arbitrary number of frequency channels and the alternating sectors are assigned the same channels but the adjacent sectors use different antenna polarization either vertical and horizontal polarizations or left and right circular polarizations.

During each data transmission cycle the cell site radio sub system at the end of the downlink data transmission time interval may send a downlink group acknowledgement packet to inform the aircraft what packets were received correctly from each aerial radio sub system during the last data transmission cycle. Each aircraft may in turn during the uplink transmission time interval associated with the aircraft send an uplink group acknowledgement packet to the cell site radio sub system acknowledging the packets received correctly from the cell site radio sub system in the current cycle.

Asymmetric channel bandwidth may be used on the downlink and uplink. Some embodiments may divide the available channel bandwidth into a number of smaller channels and assign each channel to a different aircraft during uplink transmissions. The difference between this scheme and the one described above in reference to is that the different aircraft transmit their data on the uplink in parallel but on narrower channel bandwidth.

Before sending a packet the cell site radio sub system and aerial platform radio sub system must determine at what data rate to send the packet. The ATG propagation channel is mostly line of sight with negligible multipath fading. However the aerial platform roll and pitch may change the aerial platform antenna gain toward the cell site resulting in a change in SINR. Moreover as the aerial platform moves toward or away from the cell site SINR may change due to the change in path loss. Note that the path loss from the aerial platform to the cell site is impacted by the antenna gains at the two sides as well as the distance between the two. Since the antennas at the two end are directional their gains depend on the azimuth and elevation angles from the aerial platform to the cell site. These azimuth and elevation angles change as the aerial platform travels. Since the aerial platform roll and pitch occur on the order of seconds then path loss between the aerial platform and the cell site changes slowly due to the large distances between the two. Therefore the SINR is expected to be reasonably stable over a few tens of milliseconds. For a system with cell site radius of as high as three hundred kilometers the round trip propagation delay is two milliseconds. A data cycle of twenty milliseconds is reasonable to use resulting in a 90 usage of the channel as two milliseconds is allocated to guard time because of propagation delay. Twenty milliseconds is also short enough so that the SINR in the ATG environment does not change much during that interval.

During each data cycle the aerial platform radio sub system may estimate the received SINR from the data packets sent by the cell site radio sub system and choose a data rate that the sub system may be able to decode with high probability. Then the aerial platform radio sub system may send the index of the chosen data rate to the cell site radio sub system piggybacked on a packet such as an acknowledgment packet a data packet or some other message. In the next data cycle the cell site radio sub system may use the specified data rate index to transmit data to the aerial platform radio sub system. Similarly the cell site radio sub system may estimate the SINR received from each aerial platform and send the index of the data rate that is decodable with high probability at the measured SINR to aerial platform radio sub system. The aerial platform radio sub system may use the chosen data rate to send data to the cell site radio sub system in the next data cycle. Alternatively to or conjunctively with the SINR estimate the receivers may use some other metric such as packet error rate or some other signal quality indicator to choose a data rate that is decodable with high probability.

As shown the process may scan at for a beacon signal. Such a beacon signal may be generated by a cell site radio sub system of some embodiments. Next the process may determine at whether a beacon signal has been detected. If the process determines at that no beacon signal has been detected the process may repeat operations until the process determines at that a beacon signal has been detected.

If the process determines at that a beacon signal has been detected the process may then determine at signal quality based at least partly on the detected signal. The aerial platform radio sub system receivers of some embodiments may detect and demodulate the message sent by the cell site radio sub system and estimate a signal quality measure such as SINR on the received signal message. Next the process may determine at the highest data rate based on the determined signal quality. The aerial platform radio sub system may determine the highest data rate that the sub system is able to decode correctly with high probability given the measured signal quality. The process may then send at the index of the determined data rate to the cell site.

Process may then receive at data from the cell site at the specified rate and then may end. The cell site radio sub system of some embodiments may transmit data to each aerial platform at the data rate specified by the corresponding aerial platform.

A process similar to process may be used to determine the data rate for data sent from the aerial platforms to the cell site but with aerial platform and cell site roles reversed. As above a complementary process may be implemented from the perspective of the cell site.

As shown an aerial platform radio sub system may obtain at the platform s position coordinates and measure at signal quality from current and adjacent sectors or cell sites . The signal quality such as SINR of the beacon signals received from the current and adjacent sectors may be determined in various appropriate ways.

Next the process may determine at whether a handoff is needed. Such a determination may be made using the aerial platform processor to determine whether or not handoff is needed based at least partly on the position location of the aerial platform with respect to the different sectors the relative strengths of the signal quality of beacons signals of the adjacent sectors and or other appropriate factors. If the process determines at that a handoff is not needed the process may repeat operations until the process determines at that handoff is needed.

If process determines at that handoff is needed the process may send at an association message to the candidate cell site or sector . The process may also send at a disassociation message to the current cell site or sector radio system with which the aerial platform has been communicating. The process may receive at an association acknowledgement message from the candidate cell site or sector and then may end.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that processes are conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance different embodiments may omit one or more listed operations include one or more other operations and or perform the operations in different orders than described above. In addition each process may be implemented as a set of sub processes and or as a sub process of a larger macro process. Each process or a portion thereof may be implemented iteratively.

To illustrate the scheme the example of uses beam forming on three antenna elements . . . . Then the beam for each sector e.g. beam which may correspond to sector of is generated by appropriately phasing the signals on three antenna elements e.g. elements and associated with that sector where each antenna element has a width one third of that of an antenna fixture that does not use beam forming. This example includes nine sectors and nine antenna fixtures with each antenna fixture forming a fixed beam for the corresponding sector.

Assuming three way beam forming eleven elements are needed to generate nine fixed beams for the nine sectors. Antenna elements must be spaced at half of the wavelength or 2 where denotes one wavelength.

Many of the processes and modules described above may be implemented as software processes that are specified as one or more sets of instructions recorded on a non transitory storage medium. When these instructions are executed by one or more computational element s e.g. microprocessors microcontrollers Digital Signal Processors DSPs Application Specific ICs ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. the instructions cause the computational element s to perform actions specified in the instructions.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize scheme described above may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance different numbers of antenna elements and beams may be used. As another example different numbers of elements may be combined to form each beam e.g. etc. .

Computer system may be implemented using various appropriate devices. For instance the computer system may be implemented using one or more personal computers PC servers mobile devices e.g. a smartphone tablet devices and or any other appropriate devices. The various devices may work alone e.g. the computer system may be implemented as a single PC or in conjunction e.g. some components of the computer system may be provided by a mobile device while other components are provided by a tablet device .

As shown computer system may include at least one communication bus one or more processors a system memory a read only memory ROM permanent storage devices input devices output devices various other components e.g. a graphics processing unit and one or more network interfaces .

Bus represents all communication pathways among the elements of computer system . Such pathways may include wired wireless optical and or other appropriate communication pathways. For example input devices and or output devices may be coupled to the system using a wireless connection protocol or system.

The processor may in order to execute the processes of some embodiments retrieve instructions to execute and or data to process from components such as system memory ROM and permanent storage device . Such instructions and data may be passed over bus .

System memory may be a volatile read and write memory such as a random access memory RAM . The system memory may store some of the instructions and data that the processor uses at runtime. The sets of instructions and or data used to implement some embodiments may be stored in the system memory the permanent storage device and or the read only memory . ROM may store static data and instructions that may be used by processor and or other elements of the computer system.

Permanent storage device may be a read and write memory device. The permanent storage device may be a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when computer system is off or unpowered. Computer system may use a removable storage device and or a remote storage device as the permanent storage device.

Input devices may enable a user to communicate information to the computer system and or manipulate various operations of the system. The input devices may include keyboards cursor control devices audio input devices and or video input devices. Output devices may include printers displays and or audio devices. Some or all of the input and or output devices may be wirelessly or optically connected to the computer system.

Other components may perform various other functions. These functions may include performing specific functions e.g. graphics processing sound processing etc. providing storage interfacing with external systems or components etc.

Finally as shown in computer system may be coupled to one or more networks through one or more network interfaces . For example computer system may be coupled to a web server on the Internet such that a web browser executing on computer system may interact with the web server as a user interacts with an interface that operates in the web browser. Computer system may be able to access one or more remote storages and one or more external components through the network interface and network . The network interface s may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs that may allow the computer system to access remote systems and or storages and also may allow remote systems and or storages to access computer system or elements thereof .

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the term non transitory storage medium is entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by electronic devices. These terms exclude any wireless or other ephemeral signals.

It should be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art that any or all of the components of computer system may be used in conjunction with the invention. Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many other system configurations may also be used in conjunction with the invention or components of the invention.

In addition while the examples shown may illustrate many individual modules as separate elements one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that these modules may be combined into a single functional block or element. One of ordinary skill in the art would also recognize that a single module may be divided into multiple modules.

It should be understood of course that the foregoing relates to illustrative details of exemplary embodiments of the invention and that modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following claims.

