---

title: Deployable centralizers
abstract: A centralizer assembly is disclosed that allows for the assembly to be deployed in-situ. The centralizer assembly includes flexible members that can be extended into the well bore in situ by the initiation of a gas generating device. The centralizer assembly can support a large load carrying capability compared to a traditional bow spring with little or no installation drag. Additionally, larger displacements can be produced to centralize an extremely deviated casing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580976&OS=09580976&RS=09580976
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09580976
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140304
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 785 527 DEPLOYABLE CENTRALIZERS filed Mar. 14 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

The present invention relates to the field of drilling and specifically to a centralizer that is deployed in a retracted position and that can be deployed in situ.

Down the hole DTH drills are used for oil drilling natural gas geothermal drilling and other deep earth penetration applications. For nearly any drilling method a casing is inserted into well bore. During cementing operations it is desirable to centralize the casing in the well bore assuring a competent cement seal. Bow spring centralizers are the primary method of centralizing the casing. They are designed to be easily attached to the casing as it is run and have a limited centralizing force to because of the tradeoff required for minimizing insertion drag. The design features that make them easy to use also contribute to their limitations namely a limit to the deflection force generating capabilities. This can compromise the cement job due to variation in cement thickness caused by a lack of concentricity between the casing and the well bore. Additionally with modern horizontal and slope drilling and casing the centralizers must exert enough force to support the weight of the casing.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

According to an embodiment of the invention a centralizer assembly is disclosed that includes a first sleeve a second sleeve and a plurality of flexible members disposed between and connecting the first and second sleeves. The first sleeve includes a housing a gas generating device contained within the housing and a slide member at least partially contained within the housing. The gas generating device is capable of generating an applied force upon the slide member thereby extending the slide member away from the housing so as to cause the plurality of flexible members to pivot in a direction away from the direction of the applied force.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method of centralizing a casing in a well bore is disclosed that includes attaching a centralizer assembly comprising flexible members to the casing and initiating a gas generating material within the centralizer assembly that generates a force extends that extends the flexible members towards the well bore

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

As can be seen in the first sleeve includes an outer housing a slide portion and an energetic device . It is the housing of the first sleeve that is rigidly attached to the casing to rigidly attach the first sleeve to the casing . The housing includes a chamber portion that includes a first chamber portion A containing the energetic device and a second chamber portion B that at least partially contains the slide portion . The slide portion includes a first end A and a second end B. The second end B abuts the first chamber portion A.

The energetic device includes an energetic material not shown . The energetic material is a material capable of generating a gas or expanding upon initiation. In an embodiment the energetic material may be selected from a group including but not limited to paraffin actuators shape memory alloys energetic gas generator materials. Energetic gas generating materials include a broad class of pyrotechnics propellants and explosive materials including but not limited to single double and triple based nitrocellulose based propellants air bag inflating materials based on sodium azide high nitrogen gas producing energetics composite propellants based on synthetic polymer binders and nitrates chlorates or perchlorate oxidizers such as but not limited to ammonium nitrate and ammonium perchlorate plastisol propellants and explosives such as but not limited to RDX HMX HNS PXY. The energetic material may be initiated or ignited by any ignition source not shown such as a mechanical electrical optical or thermal source. The ignition source may be triggered by a signal that is either wired fiber optically coupled or wirelessly connected to the energetic device .

The flexible members include a first portion a second portion . The first portion includes a first end A and a second end B. The second portion includes a first end A and a second end B. The second end B of the first portion is attached to the second end B of the second portion by a pin at joint . In another embodiment the two second ends B B may be attached to on another by a pin protrusion joint or other fastener that allows the two second ends B B to rotate or bend relative to the one another and away from the casing . For example a joint may include a material that can be plastically deformed. In an embodiment the joint may include a material that can be permanently plastically deformed.

The first end A of first portion is attached to a first end A of the slide portion by pin . In another embodiment the first end A may be attached to the first end A by a pin protrusion joint or other fastener that allows the first portion to rotate or bend relative to the slide portion and away from the casing .

The first end A of the second portion is attached to the first end A of the second sleeve by pin . In another embodiment the first end A may be attached to the first end A by a pin protrusion joint or other fastener that allows the second portion to rotate or bend relative to the second sleeve and away from the casing .

The force exerted on the flexible members by the slide member causes the flexible members to pivot or flex at joint away from the casing . In this exemplary embodiment the first and second portions are not deformable by the pressure exerted by the slide member . In another embodiment the first and or second portions may be deformed by the pressure exerted by the slide member . The joint is configured to not move back towards the casing after being deployed by pressure generated in first chamber A. In an embodiment the joint may be configured so as to provide a fixed angled joint when flexed so as to not move back towards the casing . In an embodiment the joint is configured to not move back towards the casing after being deployed by a center mechanism that locks in place or creates an interference fit. In another embodiment the joint may be configured to not move back towards the casing by an index positioner or other ratcheting type lock that allows deployment but not reverse motion.

In another embodiment the centralizer assembly may include a sensor not shown that indicates to an operator if the centralizer assembly is deployed.

The disclosed centralizer assembly and method of deployment allows the centralizer assembly to support a large load carrying capability compared to a traditional bow spring with little or no installation drag. Additionally larger displacements can be produced to centralize a casing in an extremely deviated borehole.

While the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

