---

title: Heat exchanger for thermoelectric power generation with the thermoelectric modules in direct contact with the heat source
abstract: A thermoelectric power generator for converting thermal energy into electrical energy. The thermoelectric power generator includes a heat exchanger configured to extract thermal energy from an exhaust gas stream. The heat exchanger includes fins in contact with a boundary of the heat exchanger, where the fins are directly connected to a first set of thermoelectric modules. A second set of thermoelectric modules are directly connected to the boundary of the heat exchanger. The first and second sets of thermoelectric modules are configured to convert the thermal energy to electrical energy. By eliminating the metal wall that previously existed between the thermoelectric modules and the fins, the thermoelectric power generator improves the heat transfer between the exhaust gas and the thermoelectric modules, eliminates the thermal fatigue failures at the bond between the metal wall and the thermoelectric modules as well as allows for a higher density of thermoelectric modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660168&OS=09660168&RS=09660168
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09660168
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141002
---
Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 892 767 A Heat Exchanger for Thermoelectric Power Generation with the Thermoelectric Modules in Direct Contact with the Heat Source filed Oct. 18 2013 and claims the benefit of its earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to the terms of the National Science Foundation Grant No. CBET 1048767.

The present invention relates generally to heat exchangers and more particularly to a heat exchanger for thermoelectric power generation with the thermoelectric modules in direct contact with the heat source.

A heat exchanger is a piece of equipment for efficient heat transfer from one medium to another. One such heat exchanger is a heat exchanger for thermoelectric power generation as illustrated in . Referring to illustrates a conventional thermoelectric power generator that includes an exhaust gas heat exchanger . Exhaust gas heat exchanger is defined by an exhaust housing wall such as an aluminum exhaust housing. Exhaust gas heat exchanger receives a pressurized exhaust gas stream from an internal combustion engine and extracts thermal energy from exhaust gas stream .

Exhaust gas heat exchanger may include a flange not shown to sealingly connect to an exhaust pipe not shown of internal combustion engine . The flange and wall may be formed from a single piece by for example upsetting. Alternatively the flange may be attached to wall by welding brazing or crimping. It is to be understood that the exhaust gas stream from internal combustion engine is at a higher pressure than the ambient atmosphere when the engine is running and the pressurized exhaust gas stream is contained in an exhaust system.

Exhaust gas heat exchanger may include fins A R e.g. aluminum fins that are in contact with wall to increase the rate of heat transfer from exhaust gas stream . Fins A R may collectively or individually be referred to as fins or fin respectively.

Thermoelectric power generator further includes thermoelectric device modules with their hot side connected to wall . Thermoelectric device modules are configured to convert the thermal energy extracted by heat exchanger to electrical energy for consumption or storage by an electrical load e.g. batteries electric motors fans .

Furthermore thermoelectric power generator includes liquid cooled heat exchangers A B disposed on the cold side of thermoelectric device modules to transfer the thermal energy from thermoelectric device modules to a liquid coolant e.g. water passed through liquid cooled heat exchangers A B.

Currently conventional thermoelectric power generators such as disclosed in utilize a metal wall such as wall . However by utilizing such a metal wall there exists thermal contact resistance between metal wall and the hot side of thermoelectric device modules . As a result conduction losses occur thereby lessening the effectiveness of the thermal energy transferred to thermoelectric device modules from heat exchanger .

Furthermore a source of failure for conventional thermoelectric power generators occurs at the bond between the metal wall such as wall and the hot side of the thermoelectric device modules such as modules . Such a failure occurs because of the large differences in the coefficient of thermal expansion between the metal wall and the ceramic materials used on the hot side of the thermoelectric device modules thereby resulting in thermal fatigue failure of the bond between the wall and the thermoelectric device modules.

As a result such conventional thermoelectric power generators are subject to conduction losses and thermal fatigue failures.

In one embodiment of the present invention a thermoelectric power generator comprises a heat exchanger configured to extract thermal energy from an exhaust gas stream where the heat exchanger comprises a first plurality of fins in contact with a boundary of the heat exchanger where the first plurality of fins are directly connected to a first plurality of thermoelectric device modules. The heat exchanger further comprises a second plurality of thermoelectric device modules directly connected to the boundary of the heat exchanger. The first and second plurality of thermoelectric device modules are configured to convert the thermal energy to electrical energy.

In another embodiment of the present invention a thermoelectric power generator system comprises an internal combustion engine configured to generate an exhaust gas stream through an exhaust pipe. The system further comprises a thermoelectric power generator connected to the internal combustion engine via the exhaust pipe. Additionally the system comprises an electrical load connected to the thermoelectric power generator. The thermoelectric power generator comprises a heat exchanger configured to extract thermal energy from an exhaust gas stream where the heat exchanger comprises a first plurality of fins in contact with a boundary of the heat exchanger where the first plurality of fins are directly connected to a first plurality of thermoelectric device modules. The heat exchanger further comprises a second plurality of thermoelectric device modules directly connected to the boundary of the heat exchanger. The first and second plurality of thermoelectric device modules are configured to convert the thermal energy to electrical energy.

The foregoing has outlined rather generally the features and technical advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the present invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be described hereinafter which may form the subject of the claims of the present invention.

While the following discusses the present invention in connection with thermoelectric power generators implementing a single housing the principles of the present invention may be applied to thermoelectric power generators implementing multiple housings. A person of ordinary skill in the art would be capable of applying the principles of the present invention to such implementations. Further embodiments applying the principles of the present invention to such implementations would fall within the scope of the present invention.

As stated in the Background section currently conventional thermoelectric power generators such as shown in utilize a metal wall such as wall . Referring to by utilizing such a metal wall there exists thermal contact resistance between metal wall and the hot side of thermoelectric device modules . As a result conduction losses occur thereby lessening the effectiveness of the thermal energy transferred to thermoelectric device modules from heat exchanger . Furthermore a source of failure for conventional thermoelectric power generators occurs at the bond between the metal wall such as wall and the hot side of the thermoelectric device modules such as modules . Such a failure occurs because of the large differences in the coefficient of thermal expansion between the metal wall and the ceramic materials used on the hot side of the thermoelectric device modules thereby resulting in thermal fatigue failure of the bond between the wall and the thermoelectric device modules. As a result such conventional thermoelectric power generators are subject to conduction losses and thermal fatigue failures.

The present invention provides a thermoelectric power generator that improves the effectiveness of the thermal energy transferred to the thermoelectric device modules from the exhaust gas heat exchanger by removing the metal wall thereby eliminating the conduction losses that were occurring. Furthermore the thermoelectric power generator of the present invention provides a means for reducing the source of thermal fatigue failure by eliminating the metal wall thereby improving the durability of the thermoelectric power generator. Additionally the thermoelectric power generator of the present invention allows for a higher density of thermoelectric device modules in a given thermoelectric power generator volume thereby allowing for greater electric power production for a given generator volume or size. In addition the design of the thermoelectric power generator of the present invention is contained in a single housing as opposed to multiple housings such as three housings as shown in thereby reducing the cost in manufacturing the thermoelectric power generator. The thermoelectric power generator of the present invention that encompasses such benefits is discussed below in connection with .

Referring to illustrates a thermoelectric power generator that is defined by an exhaust housing such as an extruded aluminum exhaust housing. In one embodiment the cross section of exhaust housing is approximately 15 cm 30 cm. Thermoelectric power generator includes a heat exchanger that receives a pressurized exhaust gas stream from an internal combustion engine and extracts thermal energy from exhaust gas stream .

In one embodiment housing may include a flange not shown such as a stainless steel flange to sealingly connect to an exhaust pipe not shown such as a stainless steel exhaust pipe of internal combustion engine . In one embodiment the flange and housing may be formed from a single piece by for example upsetting. Alternatively the flange may be attached to housing by welding brazing or crimping. It is to be understood that the exhaust gas stream from internal combustion engine is at a higher pressure than the ambient atmosphere when the engine is running and the pressurized exhaust gas stream is contained in an exhaust system.

Heat exchanger may include fins A F e.g. aluminum fins that are in contact with a boundary within heat exchanger . Fins A F may collectively or individually be referred to as fins or fin respectively. While illustrates fins A F heat exchanger may include any number of fins and the heat exchanger of the present invention is not to be limited in scope to the depicted number of fins . In one embodiment fins are utilized in heat exchanger to increase the rate of heat transfer from exhaust gas stream .

Heat exchanger further includes thermoelectric device modules A S directly connected to either fins or boundary . Thermoelectric device modules A S may collectively or individually be referred to as thermoelectric device modules or thermoelectric device module respectively. While illustrates thermoelectric device modules A S heat exchanger may include any number of thermoelectric device modules and the heat exchanger of the present invention is not to be limited in scope to the depicted number of thermoelectric device modules . A thermoelectric device module as used herein is comprised of multiple thermoelectric device elements that are housed within module . Each thermoelectric device element is comprised of thermoelectric materials that are bonded to electrical interconnects which are bonded to a non electrically conductive housing of module .

In one embodiment thermoelectric device modules are configured to convert the thermal energy extracted by heat exchanger to electrical energy for consumption or storage by an electrical load e.g. batteries electric motors fans . In one embodiment the cold side of thermoelectric device modules are connected to fins and boundary .

In one embodiment as illustrated in a portion of thermoelectric device modules are directly connected to fins without a metal wall separating thermoelectric device modules from fins . For example thermoelectric device modules A L are directly connected to fins A F as shown in . A close up view of thermoelectric device module being connected to fin is shown in . illustrates thermoelectric device modules such as modules A B of being connected to a fin such as fin A of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Returning to as a result of not including the metal wall conduction losses that were occurring through the metal wall are eliminated thereby allowing more effective heat transfer between exhaust gas and thermoelectric device modules . Furthermore by eliminating the metal wall thermal fatigue failures at the bond between the metal wall and the hot side of the thermoelectric device modules are eliminated. Additionally as illustrated in the design of thermoelectric power generator as opposed to conventional thermoelectric power generators such as shown in allow for a higher density of thermoelectric device modules in a given thermoelectric power generator volume thereby allowing for greater electric power production for a given generator volume or size. In addition the design of thermoelectric power generator as opposed to conventional thermoelectric power generators such as shown in only includes a single housing element as opposed to multiple housings such as the three housings elements A B shown in the conventional thermoelectric power generator of thereby reducing the cost in manufacturing thermoelectric power generators.

Furthermore as shown in a portion of thermoelectric device modules are directly connected to boundary . For example thermoelectric device modules M S are directly connected to boundary as shown in . In one embodiment the number of thermoelectric device modules directly coupled to fins corresponds to twice the number of fins in heat exchanger two thermoelectric device modules per fin . Thermoelectric power generator of the present invention may include any number of thermoelectric device modules and is not to be limited in scope to the depicted number of thermoelectric device modules shown in .

To assist in the conversion of thermal energy to electrical energy additional fins A S are attached to or are integrated with the thermoelectric module housing on the hot side of each thermoelectric device module A S respectively. Fins A S may collectively or individually be referred to as fins or fin respectively. A close up view of fins being integrated with the thermoelectric module housing on the hot side of thermoelectric device modules is shown in . illustrates fins such as fins A B of being integrated with the thermoelectric module housing on the hot side of thermoelectric device modules such as modules A B of which are connected to a fin such as fin A of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment the hot side ceramic of thermoelectric device modules may be contoured or textured in a shape that enhances heat transfer as opposed to being a simple flat ceramic.

Returning to in one embodiment fins are comprised of ceramic material. In one embodiment fins aid in extracting more thermal energy from exhaust gas stream thereby increasing the amount of electrical energy that is produced by thermoelectric device modules .

Additionally thermoelectric power generator includes a series of holes A T for cooling water which is used to transfer the thermal energy from thermoelectric device modules to a liquid coolant e.g. water . Holes A T may collectively or individually be referred to as holes or hole respectively. Each hole may be designed in a circular shape or in other shapes such as rectangular. The principles of the present invention are not to be limited in scope to the shape of holes depicted in .

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

