---

title: Determination of data object exposure in cloud computing environments
abstract: Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems, methods, and computer readable media for indicating data object exposure in a cloud computing environment. In a particular embodiment, a method provides receiving information about a data object from the cloud computing environment. The method further provides analyzing the information to determine a plurality of exposure characteristics for the data object. The method further includes determining an indication of exposure of the data object based on the plurality of exposure characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661065&OS=09661065&RS=09661065
owner: Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
number: 09661065
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140606
---
This application is related to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 984 923 entitled DETERMINATION OF DATA OBJECT EXPOSURE IN CLOUD COMPUTING ENVIRONMENTS filed on Apr. 28 2014 and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Cloud computing is becoming more prevalent. Some of the more basic cloud computing services store files so that the files can be accessed from any computer system that is able to log into the cloud computing service storing the files. More complex cloud computing services provide a remote platform for providing their services to customers. These more complex cloud computing services are sometimes referred to as Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a service PaaS and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS .

While various cloud computing services provide services to individuals some cloud computing services also provide services to entities. For example a business entity may subscribe to a particular cloud computing service for use by employees of the business entity. Each of the employees may be able to independently modify access settings for data objects maintained in the cloud computing service. Consequently the entity may not be aware when settings for the data objects provide more exposure for the object than would be desired by the entity. For example an entity may prefer that settings for an object prevent access by people or applications outside of the entity because of sensitive information within the object but has no practicable means of enforcing such a preference.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems methods and computer readable media for indicating data object exposure in a cloud computing environment. In a particular embodiment a method provides receiving information about a data object from the cloud computing environment. The method further provides analyzing the information to determine a plurality of exposure characteristics for the data object. The method further includes determining an indication of exposure of the data object based on the plurality of exposure characteristics.

In some embodiments the method provides that determining an indication of exposure of the data object based on the plurality of exposure characteristics comprises applying a plurality of rules to the plurality of exposure characteristics and generating the indication based on how well the plurality of exposure characteristics comply with the plurality of rules.

In some embodiments the method provides analyzing the information to determine a classification for the data object and in some embodiments the classification corresponds to a business unit.

In some embodiments receiving information about a data object from the cloud computing environment comprises using Application Programming Interface API calls for the cloud computing environment to request the information and in some embodiments using API calls for the cloud computing environment to request the information comprises impersonating a user associated with the data object wherein the API calls comprise API calls only available to the user.

In some embodiments the method provides generating a notification of the indication and remedial actions that will improve the exposure if performed.

In some embodiments the cloud computing environment includes at least two cloud computing services that each maintain a copy of the data object. In those embodiments receiving information about a data object from the cloud computing environment comprises receiving first information about the data object from a first cloud computing service of the cloud computing services and receiving second information about the data object from a second cloud computing service of the cloud computing services.

In some embodiments the information includes accessibility settings for the data object and in some embodiments the information includes a user associated with the data object.

In another embodiment a computer readable storage medium is provided having instructions stored thereon for operating an exposure analysis system to indicate data object exposure in a cloud computing environment. The instructions when executed by the exposure analysis system direct the exposure analysis system to receive information about a data object from the cloud computing environment. The instructions further direct the system to analyze the information to determine a plurality of exposure characteristics for the data object and determine an indication of exposure of the data object based on the plurality of exposure characteristics.

In yet another embodiment an exposure analysis system is provided for indicating data object exposure in a cloud computing environment. The exposure analysis system includes a network communication interface configured to receive information about a data object from the cloud computing environment. The exposure analysis system further includes a processing system configured to analyze the information to determine a plurality of exposure characteristics for the data object and determine an indication of exposure of the data object based on the plurality of exposure characteristics.

The following description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects of the best mode may be simplified or omitted. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from the best mode that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described below can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific examples described below but only by the claims and their equivalents.

In operation cloud computing environment provides one or more cloud computing services to user system . While not shown cloud computing environment may also provide services to any number of user systems beyond user system . The services provided by cloud computing environment may include file storage and sharing document collaboration client and customer management services cloud based operating system execution or any other possible service that may be provided to a user via a remote computing platform. Example cloud services include BOX DROPBOX SALESFORCE YAMMER FACEBOOK EVERNOTE or any other SaaS PaaS or IaaS. Object storage is used by cloud computing environment to store information related to the services provided. Accordingly data object is any data object that is maintained by cloud computing environment for providing the service. For example data object may be structured or unstructured data such as a file uploaded to cloud computing environment from user system a customer relationship management object or other data possibly organized into tables lists and the like corresponding to interactions notes status updates and the like for a particular client in cloud based client management software.

Regardless of what data object is in cloud computing environment data object the services provided by cloud computing environment may allow data object to be exposed to undesired users. When used herein exposure means that data object be retrieved viewed changed or otherwise accessed including combinations thereof by users systems or applications beyond what may be desired by the user of user system or other interested party such as that user s employer. For example a cloud storage service may provide public folders in which anyone who finds the folder can access files stored therein.

In order to prevent data objects from being overly exposed exposure analysis system analyzes characteristics of data objects stored in cloud environment to determine an indication for the exposure of each object. In a basic example the exposure for a data object stored in a public folder may be considered greater than the exposure for that same data object stored in a private folder and shared only with a limited number of people. The user or a supervisor of the user may be notified of the exposure indication so that changes to the data object s exposure characteristics can be made if desired.

The information may be received over a communication network or may be received in any other manner by which a computer system could receive data including reading the information off of optical disks or other type of removable media. Additionally the functionality of exposure analysis system may be integrated into a service of could computing environment . In those situations the information may be received from other elements of the service.

The exposure characteristics may include items of the information that explicitly indicate an object s exposure such as access settings for data object or a location container in which data object is stored within cloud computing environment or a number of individuals or applications that are given access to data object and the like. Additionally the exposure characteristics may be identified from items of information that do not explicitly indicate the exposure of data object such as reputation of the user i.e. the user of user system associated with object past exposure analysis of data object time since data object was last accessed age of data object who is accessing data object who is allowed to access data object who has accessed data object at certain times in the past number of users able to access data object number of untrusted users able to access data object exposure indications of other objects in a same container e.g. folder as data object a type of data contained in data object a number of user systems through which data object is accessed a number of systems used to access a user account under which data object is maintained firewall logs or any other information that may indicate an exposure level of data object .

The indication is calculated from the exposure characteristics and may be expressed as a value on a number scale e.g. 1 to 10 with 10 indicating high exposure or vice versa a percentage a rank in relation to other objects a multi level scale e.g. poor satisfactory good best or any other way in which severity of exposure may be expressed. Exposure analysis system may weigh different exposure characteristics differently when determining the indication. For example the reputation of a particular user with whom data object is shared may affect the exposure indication of data object more so than the number of users with whom data object is shared. In some examples these weights may be determined based on rules that indicate importance of certain characteristics over others. Additionally the indication may be separated into multiple distinct indicators that each indicate exposure relative to specific criteria. For example one indicator may correspond to overall exposure while another indicator may correspond to an exposure relative to a regulatory scheme governmental or otherwise. Similarly the multiple indicators may indicate different types of disclosure. For example one indicator may indicate exposure to the public while another indicator may indicate exposure to other departments within the same entity.

In some embodiments exposure analysis system may be configured to learn which exposure characteristic combinations correspond to which indications of exposure. For example exposure analysis system may be provided with data objects exposure characteristics for each of those data objects and an exposure indication for each data object. Exposure analysis system is then able to correlate particular exposure characteristics with particular indications. Exposure analysis system uses this correlation to generate an exposure indication for objects having similar characteristics to those provided during the learning process.

Advantageously the embodiment described above allows exposure analysis system to indicate exposure for objects stored in cloud computing environment . This exposure indication information may be supplied to a user of user system or another interested party such as an entity or enterprise associated with the user of user system which includes third parties. The interested party will therefore be aware of exposure issues that it would not have known about otherwise.

Referring back to exposure analysis system comprises a computer system and communication interface. Exposure analysis system may also include other components such as a router server data storage system and power supply. Exposure analysis system may reside in a single device or may be distributed across multiple devices. Exposure analysis system is shown externally to cloud computing environment but system could be integrated within the components of cloud computing environment . Exposure analysis system could be an application server a personal workstation a service node or some other network capable computing system including combinations thereof.

Cloud computing environment comprises a computer system communication interface and object storage . Cloud computing environment may also include other components such as a router server and power supply. Cloud computing environment may reside in a single device or may be distributed across multiple devices. Cloud computing environment may include multiple cloud services each provided by multiple systems and not necessarily co located or operated by a common entity e.g. may include a cloud storage service provided by one company and a customer management service provided by another company . Cloud computing environment could be an application server service node or some other computing system including combinations thereof.

User system comprises a computer system and a communication interface. User system may also include a user interface memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication components. User system may be a telephone tablet computer e book mobile Internet appliance wireless network interface card media player game console or some other end user computing apparatus including combinations thereof.

Communication links could use various communication protocols such as Time Division Multiplex TDM Internet Protocol IP Ethernet communication signaling Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Only EVDO Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Long Term Evolution LTE Wireless Fidelity WIFI High Speed Packet Access HSPA or some other communication format including combinations thereof. Communication links could be direct links or may include intermediate networks systems or devices.

Communication network comprises network elements that provide communications services to exposure analysis system cloud services and user systems . Communication network may comprise switches wireless access nodes Internet routers network gateways application servers computer systems communication links or some other type of communication equipment including combinations thereof. Communication network may include wide area networks local area networks the Internet or other types of networks including combinations thereof.

In operation users associated with entity operate user systems . User systems may be provided to the users by entity or may otherwise be able to access services to which entity subscribes. In this example entity is a business enterprise and the users are employees of that business. Entity subscribes to services provided by cloud services and for the employees of entity . Cloud services and may be otherwise unrelated cloud services operated by independent entities but for the purposes of this example are considered part of cloud computing environment for entity . Each employee receives individual login information to individual accounts on each of services and and can use each of the services to the extent that entity is subscribed e.g. within the limits of entity s service agreement .

To ensure no sensitive information becomes overly exposed during the employee s use of cloud services and entity uses exposure analysis system to inform entity about the exposure of data objects be maintained on behalf of its employees. Exposure analysis system may be controlled directly by entity i.e. may be owned or operated by entity or entity may subscribe to services provided by exposure analysis system through a third party operator of exposure analysis system .

Operation begins with the employee using user system creating objects in the employee s account in cloud services as pictured in . To create the objects the objects may be uploaded to cloud services may be generated at cloud services in response to directions from user system or may become stored in cloud service by some other means. One particular data object is located in both cloud service and cloud service .

Exposure analysis system then uses Application Programming Interface API calls for each of cloud services to request data object information pertaining to exposure characteristics. For example the data object information may include settings metadata or any other type of information about the object. The API used for each of cloud services may include the same API calls typically used by user systems to interact with the cloud services. For example there may be an API call for one or more of cloud services that allows a user to request with whom a particular data object is shared. In some examples even though entity is subscribing to cloud services on behalf of its employees one or more of cloud services may not allow entity to use certain API calls to access user specific information. In those cases exposure analysis system impersonates individual users so that exposure analysis system can request the information. The impersonation may be performed with the consent of the user since the user is an employee of entity and is using a service subscribed to by entity .

In some embodiments one or more of cloud services may provide APIs that allow code to execute within the cloud service on behalf of exposure analysis system . In those examples the code may transfer exposure information to exposure analysis system periodically or upon certain triggers. For example upon settings for a particular object being changed the code may instruct the cloud service to transfer a notification of those changes to exposure analysis system .

Once the requested data object information is received by exposure analysis system exposure analysis system analyses the information in accordance with operation in . In particular exposure analysis system identifies exposure characteristics from the received data object information step . Rules are then applied to the exposure characteristics for each data object step . The rules may be business rules identified by entity based on exposure characteristics that entity believes are desirable for certain types of data objects data objects containing certain subject matter data objects for certain types of employees or any other reason that an entity may want to limit exposure to particular data objects.

Based on how the exposure characteristics for each data object satisfy the rules exposure analysis system determines an indication for the exposure of each object step . For example if characteristics for a particular data object fall within all the applicable rules then the indication for that object will indicate a low danger of exposure. An object may fall within the rules for different reasons. For instance the object may contain sensitive information but its characteristics indicate that it is not at risk of being accessed by anyone outside of the employee that created it. Alternatively the object may be publicly accessible but not contain sensitive information and therefore does not require a high exposure danger.

Upon determining the exposure indications for the data objects exposure analysis system may notify entity of the indications. For example a notification may be sent to an administrator within entity via email a dedicated application for interacting with exposure analysis system a web interface to exposure analysis system or by some other notification means. A notification may further be sent to the employee under whose account the data objects are located. In the present example the employee would be the employee operating user system . In alternative examples the notification may be displayed as part of a graphical representation of the object when a user accesses the cloud service. That is the way in which the object is displayed to a user may be changed based on the indication of exposure. For example the listing of a file object in a cloud storage service may change color based on the indication of exposure e.g. a highly exposed object may be presented in the color red .

In some examples the notification only indicates data objects having high indications for danger of exposure or indications above a predetermined threshold. The notification may also indicate specific reasons as to why a data object was determined to have a particular indication e.g. which exposure characteristics did not satisfy the rules . Such an indication may allow a user to change the offending characteristics of the object to improve the objects exposure. Similarly in some examples the notification may explicitly set forth recommended actions that can be taken to improve the object s exposure. These actions may include both automatic which may also be performed by system without notification and manual remedial actions that can reduce or eliminate the object s risk of exposure. For example the actions may include changing access settings for the object such as disabling a public link to the object expiring the link remove user access modifying or encrypting the data object deleting the data object or notifying the data owner or manager. Exposure analysis system may also log the notification data in an incident module for future access. Similarly exposure analysis system may update metadata associated with the object to indicate exposure a processes commonly referred to as metadata tagging.

Using exposure analysis system in the manner described above entity can ensure that its employees are not using cloud computing services in a manner that would expose information that entity would not want disclosed.

As is the case with cloud service while settings and metadata are shown as being part of data object cloud service may maintain settings and metadata elsewhere. For example cloud service may maintain a separate data structure for storing such information in association with each data object. When exposure analysis system requests information related to data object in accordance with operation cloud service transfers at least a portion of settings and metadata in response to the request. In some examples depending on whether entity allows exposure analysis system to access object data at least a portion of object data is also transferred to exposure analysis system for exposure analysis.

In some embodiments if exposure analysis system is allowed to receive object data exposure analysis system uses object data to classify data object as being related to a particular business unit topic or other form of classification. For example exposure analysis system may review the contents of object data to determine that data object is a legal document that should not be shared outside of entity s legal department for any reason in accordance with the rules. Therefore exposure analysis system determines an indication that data object as having a high danger of exposure if it is available for access by individuals outside of the legal department.

Furthermore if data object has been classified into a particular grouping e.g. business unit then a notification message indicating data object s exposure can be directed to an administrator in charge of the data maintained by people within that grouping rather than an administrator in charge of all data. Similarly such an administrator may receive notifications that represent exposure in the aggregate for multiple data objects classified in the same grouping. Likewise the classification of objects allows for a high level notification report that may include which set s of users have exposure issues which Business units have exposure issues which classifications have exposure issues which classifications of documents have exposure issues or any other way in which the exposure of data objects may be grouped.

In other examples exposure analysis system is able to classify data object without having access to object data . In those examples a user may aid exposure analysis system by indicating a classification or exposure analysis system may infer a classification based on other information such as the name of a container e.g. folder for data object a position of the employee operating user system and having the account under which data object is maintained e.g. a legal department employee likely manages legal documents or other information that may suggest a classification for a data object.

In some embodiments if a separate indication of exposure is determined for data object in each of cloud services and then a notification may be generated if the indications of exposure differ by more than a threshold. The notification may simply indicate the anomaly or may indicate specific exposure characteristics that caused the difference in exposure indications. For example if the exposure indication is a rank on a scale of 1 to 10 with one being the most exposed exposure analysis system will generate a notification if data object has a rank of 3 in one service and 8 in the other. This notification may be presented to any individual or system to which notifications may be sent as discussed elsewhere herein. A similar principle may be applied to objects of the same type within one or more of the services not just identical objects across services.

Settings indicate that data object is under user John Doe s account from which exposure analysis system may be able to determine other employee information is being shared with 2 other users some examples may identify those users and indicate whether those other users are employees of entity and is not located in a publicly accessible folder. Metadata indicates that object data is a file it was last accessed 3 days ago and is a Human Resources HR file.

In contrast settings indicate that data object is being shared with no other users but is located in a publicly accessible folder. Metadata indicates that object data is a file it was last accessed 22 minutes ago and is located in a folder labeled miscellaneous.

Based on settings and metadata exposure analysis system may determine that data object on cloud service is of low danger for exposure because it is only shared with 2 other users and has not been accessed recently. However data object on cloud service has been accessed much more recently and is publicly accessible. Since HR files may include confidential employee information the rules used by exposure analysis system indicate that HR files should not be made publicly available. Therefore despite being a low risk for exposure on cloud service data object is given an indication of high danger of exposure because of its exposure characteristics on cloud service this may further indicate that data object was inadvertently placed in the miscellaneous folder . In some examples data object may be assigned two separate indications corresponding to each cloud service.

Exposure analysis system then notifies entity of data object s exposure indication. Entity is then aware that actions need to be taken to ensure data object s exposure indication is brought to within acceptable limits.

Communication interface comprises components that communicate over communication links such as network cards ports RF transceivers processing circuitry and software or some other communication devices. Communication interface may be configured to communicate over metallic wireless or optical links. Communication interface may be configured to use TDM IP Ethernet optical networking wireless protocols communication signaling or some other communication format including combinations thereof.

User interface comprises components that interact with a user. User interface may include a keyboard display screen mouse touch pad or some other user input output apparatus. User interface may be omitted in some examples.

Processing circuitry comprises microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes operating software from memory device . Memory device comprises a non transitory storage medium such as a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other memory apparatus. Operating software comprises computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. Operating software includes exposure characteristics analysis module and exposure indication module . Operating software may further include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software. When executed by circuitry operating software directs processing system to operate exposure analysis system as described herein.

In particular exposure characteristics analysis module directs processing system to receive information about a data object from the cloud computing environment. Module further directs processing system to analyze the information to determine a plurality of exposure characteristics for the data object. Exposure indication module directs processing system to determine an indication of exposure of the data object based on the plurality of exposure characteristics.

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

