---

title: Multi-modal digital terminal adapter
abstract: A multi-modal digital terminal adapter (DTA), and associated methods and computer-readable media, are disclosed for determining a current mode of operation of the DTA, selectively activating and/or deactivating one or more receiving modules based at least in part on the current mode of operation, and routing an incoming signal to one or more receiving modules based at least in part on one or more characteristics of the signal to initiate processing of the signal in accordance with the current mode of operation for the multi-modal DTA.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462320&OS=09462320&RS=09462320
owner: Cox Communications
number: 09462320
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140819
---
A variety of types of customer premises equipment exist for receiving digital cable signals demodulating the signals and decoding the signals to identify the information contained therein. Example types of customer premises equipment include set top boxes digital television adapters and so forth. In addition a number of content streaming devices capable of rendering video content transmitted over an Internet Protocol IP network have appeared in recent years.

This disclosure relates to among other things a multi modal digital terminal adapter DTA and associated methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for determining a current mode of operation for the multi modal DTA among multiple available modes of operation and processing an incoming signal in accordance with the determined mode of operation.

A multi modal DTA in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may be used as a substitute for a set top box. For example a multi modal DTA may include a demodulator configured to demodulate a modulated incoming signal. The incoming signal may be for example a digital cable signal that is modulated in accordance with any suitable modulation scheme such as for example quadrature amplitude modulation e.g. 64 QAM 256 QAM etc. . The demodulator may be for example a QAM demodulator capable of demodulating an incoming signal that has been modulated in accordance with a QAM modulation scheme.

A multi modal DTA in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may further include a decryption chip configured to decrypt an incoming signal. Digital cable systems provide the capability to encrypt a digital signal. Encryption was unavailable for earlier analog cable systems which utilized scrambling instead. The decryption chip may be configured to decrypt an incoming encrypted digital signal using any suitable cryptographic technique such as public private key encryption decryption.

A multi modal DTA in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may further include one or more multi modal operation module s that may be implemented in any combination of software hardware and or firmware. The multi modal operation module s may be configured to determine a current mode of operation for the multi modal DTA and process an incoming signal based on the determined mode of operation. For example the multi modal operation module s may receive a notification message or the like indicating the mode of operation in accordance with which the multi modal DTA should operate. For example the notification message may be transmitted to the multi modal DTA as part of a provisioning and or configuration of the DTA. Additionally or alternatively configurable settings of the multi modal DTA may specify the mode of operation.

A multi modal DTA in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may include a tuner that is configured to detect incoming signals across a range of frequencies. A multi modal DTA in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may further include a channelizer that is configured to receive signals detected by the tuner and partition or otherwise identify one or more channels within the range of frequencies. Each channel may include any suitable range of frequencies e.g. a 6 MHz range . After an incoming signal is separated into constituent channels by the channelizer the demodulator may demodulate the signal. As part of demodulating the signal header information included in data packets of the signal may be identified and one or more characteristics of the signal may be determined from the header information. For example the header information may indicate that the signal is a digital cable signal an IP video signal a data signal formatted in accordance with the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS or the like.

Upon identifying the type of signal from for example the header information the signal may be routed to an appropriate receiving module for processing. For example an operating system kernel e.g. a Linux kernel may include or manage one or more receiving modules. Each receiving module may receive and facilitate processing of a corresponding type of signal and may be activated or deactivated based on the current mode of operation of the multi modal DTA. If a particular receiving module is activated the corresponding received signal may be processed in accordance with the type of signal. Processing of a signal may include without limitation demodulation decryption rendering or combinations thereof. If on the other hand a particular receiving module is not activated the receiving module may not process the received signal. Alternatively each receiving module may receive all signal traffic and may process if activated only those signals that the receiving module is configured to process.

For example if the multi modal operation module s determine that digital cable signals are to be processed in accordance with the current mode of operation of the multi modal DTA hereinafter referred to at times as a digital cable mode the multi modal operation module s may activate or instruct the kernel to activate the corresponding receiving module thereby ensuring that incoming digital cable signals are processed accordingly. For example an incoming signal may be demodulated by a demodulator and header information contained in the data packets of the signal may be analyzed to identify which receiving module should receive the data packets. If the header information indicates that the signal is a digital cable signal the data packets may be routed to an appropriate receiving module which if activated may direct a decoder to decode the signal if the signal has been encoded with a digital compression algorithm and may further direct the decryption chip to decrypt the signal if encrypted . The associated video and audio content contained in the demodulated decoded and decrypted signal may then be rendered by a display device e.g. television to which the multi modal DTA is connected. Alternatively as previously described each receiving module may receive all signal traffic and activation of the corresponding receiving module may cause digital cable signals included in the signal traffic to be processed while deactivation of other receiving modules may result in other signal traffic being dropped e.g. not processed for rendering of associated content .

If on the other hand the multi modal operation modules determine that signals that include data packets delivered over a packet switched network using an IP protocol are to be processed the multi modal operation module s may activate or direct the kernel to activate the corresponding receiving module. Signals identified as IP video signals from for example header information included in data packets of the signals may then be routed to the corresponding receiving module for processing. Processing of an IP video signal may cause decryption to be bypassed. For example as part of activation of the receiving module corresponding to IP video signals the multi modal operation module s may make a system call to an operating system kernel which in turn may un mount the decryption chip thereby preventing decryption processing from being performed on an unencrypted IP video signal. Alternatively the receiving module itself may initiate the system call. The IP video signal may then be rendered by a display device. Further as noted above in the alternative each receiving module may receive all signal traffic and activation of the corresponding receiving module may cause IP video signals included in the signal traffic to be processed while deactivation of other receiving modules may result in other signal traffic being dropped e.g. not processed for rendering of associated content .

In certain other example embodiments the multi modal operation module s may insert control signals into the received signal traffic. In such example embodiments all receiving modules may be activated and may receive all signal traffic and the control signals may trigger the appropriate receiving modules to initiate processing of corresponding signals. For example a receiving module corresponding to digital cable signals may be triggered to initiate processing of digital cable signals by control signals included in the signal traffic while other control signals may prevent the receiving module from being triggered in connection with other types of signals.

In certain example embodiments a multi modal DTA in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may be configured to convert a digital signal e.g. a digital television signal to an analog signal capable of being rendered by a device e.g. a television that may not be equipped with a digital tuner. A multi modal DTA in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may be configured to receive over the air OTA digital signals and convert the digital signals to analog signals. Thus the multi modal DTA may function at least in part as a digital to analog converter and may serve as a substitute for an Advanced Television Systems Committee ATSC tuner for devices e.g. analog televisions that lack such a tuner.

Example embodiments of the disclosure provide a number of advantages or technical effects. For example in accordance with the example embodiments of the disclosure a multi modal DTA may serve as a cost effective substitute for a set top box and may provide the capability to operate in accordance with multiple modes of operation to selectively process different types of signals based on a current mode of operation. For example a multi modal DTA in accordance with one or more example embodiments may operate in accordance with an operational mode in which incoming digital cable signals are demodulated decoded decrypted and rendered as well as an operational mode in which decryption processing is bypassed for an incoming IP video signal and the IP video signal is processed and rendered. It should be appreciated that the above examples of advantages and or technical effects of example embodiments of the disclosure are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described above. The above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the scope of this disclosure and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Accordingly variations modifications and equivalents of embodiments disclosed herein are also within the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments and additional and or alternative embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings.

As shown in in older analog broadcast systems a broadcast antenna provided as part of for example a tower infrastructure may broadcast analog over the air television signals . An analog television may receive the analog signals via a local antenna . The analog television may be provided with a National Television Systems Committee NTSC tuner or the like configured to process the analog signals for rendering on the analog television .

As shown in with the advent of cable television architectures an analog signal originating at an analog signal source e.g. a cable head end may travel through a series of amplifiers to a set top box STB provided at a customer premises. The STB may be configured to communicate via a coaxial connection with a television . Early cable systems included coaxial lines extending from the head end to the customer premises. Later evolutions of cable system architectures included optical fiber from the head end to various optical splitters and coaxial cables from the optical splitters to customers premises. Various fiber to the premises FTTP architectures have now been deployed in which optical fiber extends from the head end to a location that is in closer proximity to the customers premises.

Most cable system architectures have now transitioned to the digital cable architecture depicted in . In the example architecture shown in a digital signal originating at a digital signal source e.g. a cable head end travels along optical fiber and or coaxial physical media through a series of amplifiers until the signal reaches a STB . The digital signal may be modulated using for example a QAM digital modulation scheme. The STB may be configured to demodulate the signal so that the video and audio content of the signal can be rendered on a television . In certain example embodiments the digital signal may be encrypted. The STB may be configured to decrypt the encrypted signal to produce a decrypted signal .

In accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure a multi modal DTA may be provided as a substitute for the STB . The multi modal DTA may similarly be configured to demodulate decode and decrypt incoming digital signals so that video and audio content of the signal can be rendered by the television . The multi modal DTA may further provide a capability to transition between multiple modes of operation depending on the provisioning and or configuration of the DTA . The multi modal DTA may however provide a reduced set of functionality with respect to the STB e.g. reduced user interactivity reduced on demand programming options etc. and thus may be manufactured and provided to a customer at a significantly lower cost than the STB .

The bus es may include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and may permit exchange of information e.g. data including computer executable code signaling etc. between various components of the device . The bus es may have any of a variety of bus structures including without limitation a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and so forth. The bus es may be associated with any suitable bus architecture including without limitation an Industry Standard Architecture ISA a Micro Channel Architecture MCA an Enhanced ISA EISA a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA architecture an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP architecture a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI architecture a PCI Express architecture a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA architecture a Universal Serial Bus USB architecture a Serial Peripheral Interface architecture and so forth.

The memory of the device may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may include for example memory cards USB flash drives external hard disk drives optical discs and so forth. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause various operations to be performed. In certain example embodiments computer executable code stored in the data storage may be executable by the processor s directly from the data storage . The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non volatile storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more operating systems O S and one or more program modules applications or the like such as for example one or more multi modal operation modules one or more receiving modules and so forth. Any of the modules depicted in may include computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loaded into the memory for execution by one or more of the processor s . The O S may include a kernel e.g. a Linux kernel configured to among other things manage activation and deactivation of the receiving module s .

The processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the processor s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the memory to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

The device may further include a tuner configured to detect incoming signals across a range of frequencies a channelizer configured to receive signals detected by the tuner and partition or otherwise identify one or more channels included therein a demodulator configured to demodulate modulated incoming signals and a decryption chip configured to decrypt encrypted signals. Although not depicted in the device may further include a decoder configured to decode signals encoded with any of a variety of digital compression encoding schemes. In certain example embodiments an incoming signal may be for example a digital cable signal that is modulated in accordance with any suitable modulation scheme such as for example quadrature amplitude modulation e.g. 64 QAM 256 QAM etc. . The demodulator may be for example a QAM demodulator e.g. a QAM tuner capable of demodulating an incoming signal that has been modulated in accordance with a QAM modulation scheme. In other example embodiments an incoming signal may be an IP video signal or any other suitable digital signal.

Referring now to functionality supported by the various program modules depicted in the multi modal operation module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause a current mode of operation for the device to be determined. The current mode of operation may be determined from a notification message received by the device in response to a provisioning request transmitted by the device . Additionally or alternatively the current mode of operation may be determined based on a configuration of the device . Based on the determined mode of operation the multi modal operation module s may activate or direct the kernel to activate one or more of the receiving module s corresponding to the determined mode of operation and deactivate those receiving module s not corresponding to the determined mode of operation.

As previously described as part of demodulating incoming signals header information included in data packets of the signals may be identified and one or more characteristics of the signals may be determined from the header information. For example the header information may indicate that a signal is a digital cable signal an IP video signal a data signal formatted in accordance with DOCSIS or the like. Upon identifying the type of signal from for example the header information the multi modal operation module s and or the kernel may route the signal to an appropriate receiving module for processing. If a particular receiving module is activated the corresponding received signal may be processed in accordance with the type of signal. Processing of a signal may include without limitation demodulation decryption rendering or combinations thereof. If on the other hand a particular receiving module is not activated the receiving module may not process the received signal. Alternatively as previously described each receiving module may receive all signal traffic and may process if activated only those signals that the receiving module is configured to process.

For example if the multi modal operation module s determine that device is to operate in a digital cable mode the multi modal operation module s may activate or instruct the kernel to activate the corresponding receiving module thereby ensuring that incoming digital cable signals are processed accordingly. For example an incoming signal may be demodulated by the demodulator and header information contained in the data packets of the signal may be analyzed to identify which receiving module should receive the data packets. If the header information indicates that the signal is a digital cable signal the data packets may be routed to an appropriate receiving module which if activated may direct a decoder not shown to decode the signal if the signal has been encoded with a digital compression algorithm and may further direct the decryption chip to decrypt the signal if encrypted . The associated video and audio content contained in the demodulated decoded and decrypted signal may then be rendered by a display device e.g. television to which the device is connected. Alternatively as previously described each receiving module may receive all signal traffic and activation of the corresponding receiving module may cause digital cable signals included in the signal traffic to be processed while deactivation of other receiving modules may result in other signal traffic being dropped e.g. not processed for rendering of associated content .

If on the other hand the multi modal operation module s determine that the device is to operate in an IP video mode the multi modal operation module s may activate or direct the kernel to activate the corresponding receiving module . Signals identified as IP video signals from for example header information included in data packets of the signals may then be routed to the corresponding receiving module for processing. Processing of an IP video signal may cause decryption to be bypassed. For example as part of activation of the receiving module corresponding to IP video signals the multi modal operation module s and or receiving module may make a system call to the kernel which in turn may un mount the decryption chip thereby preventing decryption processing from being performed on an unencrypted IP video signal. The IP video signal may then be rendered by a display device. Further as noted above in the alternative each receiving module may receive all signal traffic and activation of the corresponding receiving module may cause IP video signals included in the signal traffic to be processed while deactivation of other receiving modules may result in other signal traffic being dropped e.g. not processed for rendering of associated content .

In certain other example embodiments the multi modal operation module s may insert control signals into the received signal traffic. In such example embodiments all receiving modules may be activated and may receive all signal traffic and the control signals may trigger the appropriate receiving modules to initiate processing of corresponding signals. For example a receiving module corresponding to digital cable signals may be triggered to initiate processing of digital cable signals by control signals included in the signal traffic while other control signals may prevent the receiving module from being triggered in connection with other types of signals.

Referring to now to other illustrative components of the device the O S may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and may provide an interface between other application software executing on the device and hardware resources of the device . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the device and for providing common services to other application programs e.g. managing memory allocation among various application programs . The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any proprietary or non proprietary operating system e.g. a Linux based operating system .

The device may further include one or more input output I O interfaces that may facilitate the receipt of input information by the device from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the device to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the device including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth. The device may further include one or more network interfaces via which the device may communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth. The input output interface s and or the network interface s may include or otherwise facilitate communication via any of a variety of types of serial or parallel ports including without limitation an Ethernet port a USB port a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI port a Video Graphics Array VGA port a coaxial RF connector female and so forth.

The device may further include one or more network interfaces that may facilitate communication between the device and one or more other devices via any suitable type of network. Such network s may include but are not limited to any one or more different types of communications networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further such network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition such network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

It should be appreciated that the program modules applications computer executable instructions code or the like depicted in as being stored in the data storage are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that processing described as being supported by any particular module may alternatively be distributed across multiple modules or performed by a different module. In addition various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on the device and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more networks may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code depicted in and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules depicted in may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules depicted in may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that the device may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of the device are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

At block computer executable instructions of the multi modal operation module s may be executed to determine a current mode of operation of the device based at least in part on provisioning and or configuration of the device . For example the device may receive a provisioning message indicating the current mode of operation. Additionally or in the alternative the multi modal operation module s may determine the current mode of operation from configurable settings of the device .

At block computer executable instructions of the multi modal operation module s may cause one or more of the receiving module s corresponding to the determined mode of operation to be selectively activated and one or more receiving module s not corresponding to the determined mode of operation to be deactivated. Additionally or alternatively the multi modal operation module s may direct the kernel to selectively activate and deactivate the receiving modules .

At block the device may receive an incoming signal. The signal may be for example a digital cable signal an IP video signal or the like. At block the incoming signal may be demodulated by the demodulator .

At block a type of the signal may be determined based at least in part on header information contained in the demodulated signal. For example the header information may indicate that a signal is a digital cable signal an IP video signal a data signal formatted in accordance with DOCSIS or the like.

In certain example embodiments upon identifying the type of signal from for example the header information the multi modal operation module s and or the kernel may route the signal at block to an appropriate receiving module for processing. If a particular receiving module is activated the corresponding received signal may be processed in accordance with the type of signal at block . If on the other hand a particular receiving module is not activated the receiving module may not process the received signal at block . Alternatively as previously described each receiving module may receive all signal traffic and may process if activated only those signals that the receiving module is configured to process.

In certain other example embodiments the multi modal operation module s may insert control signals into the received signal traffic at block . In such example embodiments all receiving modules may be activated and may receive all signal traffic at block and the control signals may trigger the appropriate receiving modules to initiate processing of corresponding signals. For example a receiving module corresponding to digital cable signals may be triggered to initiate processing of digital cable signals by control signals included in the signal traffic while other control signals may prevent the receiving module from being triggered in connection with other types of signals.

The operations described and depicted in the illustrative method of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

