---

title: Granulysin in immunotherapy
abstract: Methods of stimulating or enhancing an immune response in a host are disclosed. The methods include contacting a monocyte with 15 kD granulysin thereby producing a monocyte-derived dendritic cell. In one example, the method further includes contacting the monocyte or monocyte-derived dendritic cell with a target antigen, such as a tumor antigen or an autoimmune antigen. In another embodiment, the method includes contacting the monocyte with an additional agent that enhances maturation of dendritic cells or induces immunological tolerance. The methods are of use in vivo, in vitro and ex vivo. In another aspect, the disclosure relates to compositions and methods for the treatment of tumors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09358285&OS=09358285&RS=09358285
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services
number: 09358285
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140725
---
This claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 250 601 filed Oct. 12 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to methods for the treatment of immune based disorders such as autoimmune diseases organ transplantation rejection and tumor immunotherapy. The disclosure also relates to the stimulation of an immune response in a host upon administration of a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin.

Vaccination protocols have improved over the last several decades however a therapeutically effective immune response has still been difficult to generate for some conditions. For example human tumor immunotherapy has met with only limited success. Among the reasons for this difficulty have been the limited availability of tumor associated antigens and an inability to deliver antigens in a manner that renders them immunogenic.

Dendritic cells DC include a heterogeneous family of antigen presenting cells APC that present antigens for the modulation of an immune response or induce immunological tolerance. The number of dendritic cells in the blood is surprisingly few less than about 1 of blood mononuclear leukocytes. Thus the low number of circulating dendritic cells makes their therapeutic use for the stimulation or modulation of an immune response difficult. Dendritic precursor cells such as monocytes migrate from a host s bone marrow to specific sites where they become activated and differentiate into dendritic cells. Following exposure to an antigen and an activation signal the dendritic cells secrete chemokines and cytokines and then present the processed antigen to naive T cells to produce an immune response in the host.

Bidirectional interactions between antigen presenting dendritic cells and na ve T cells initiate either an immunogenic or a tolerance pathway that are of particular importance in autoimmune disease and in transplantation medicine. Conventional subsets of dendritic cells described in humans include myeloid dendritic cells mDC and plasmacytoid dendritic cells pDC .

Dendritic cells possess a distinct morphology and are characterized by the expression of large amounts of class II MHC antigens and the absence of lineage markers including CD14 monocyte CD3 T cell CD19 CD20 CD24 B cells CD56 natural killer and CD66b granulocyte Shortman and Liu 2 151 161 2002 . Dendritic cells also express a variety of adhesion and co stimulatory molecules such as CD80 and CD86 and molecules that regulate co stimulation such as CD40. The phenotype of dendritic cells varies with the stage of dendritic cell maturation and activation Chapuis et al. 27 431 441 1997 . However expression of adhesion molecules MHC antigens and co stimulatory molecules increases with dendritic cell maturation. Antibodies that preferentially stain dendritic cells are commercially available such as anti CD83 and anti CD80. Accordingly the expression level of a particular antigen marker can be used to confirm if the antigen presenting cell is a dendritic cell and if the dendritic cell is mature Zhou and Tedder 154 3821 3835 1995 Weissman et al. 155 4111 4117 1995 .

Several in vitro methods have been developed to expand populations of dendritic cells and to augment anti cancer immunity. Ex vivo exposure of expanded populations of dendritic cells to antigens found on tumor cells or other disease causing cells followed by reintroduction of the antigen loaded dendritic cells to the subject significantly enhanced presentation of the antigen to responding T cells. For example culturing blood mononuclear leukocytes for eight days in the presence of granulocyte monocyte colony stimulating factor GM CSF and interleukin 4 IL 4 was found to produce large numbers of dendritic cells Sallusto and Lanzavecchia 179 1109 1118 1994 .

DNA vaccines that incorporate plasmids encoding cytokines such as GM CSF and IL 4 have been used to investigate dendritic cell maturation pathways. In particular GM CSF cDNA has been used as a DNA vaccine adjuvant for glycoprotein B of virus PrV in a murine mouse model Yoon et al 50 83 92 2006 . At least nine cytokine secreting vectors have been identified as genetic adjuvants for DNA vaccines in DNA Vaccines Methods and Protocols edited by Douglas Lowrie and Robert Whalen .

Nucleic acid immunization is a relatively recent approach in vaccine development. The ability of DNA vaccines to protect against challenges from pathogens has been demonstrated in animal models of influenza malaria mycobacterium HIV and Ebola. A DNA based vaccine usually comprises purified plasmid DNA carrying sequences encoding a target antigen under the control of a eukaryotic promoter. The plasmid is injected into the muscle or skin and the host cells take up the plasmid and express the antigen intracellularly. Expression of the encoded antigen by the host s cells is one of the advantages of this approach because it mimics natural infection. To enhance immune responses induced by DNA vaccines co administration of adjuvants such as cytokines chemokines and co stimulatory molecules have been used. It is therefore believed that administering plasmids encoding cytokines such as GM CSF or IL 4 and a target antigen may cause intracellular expression of both the antigen and the cytokine in the host thereby providing an enhanced immune response in the host.

Cancers are a significant public health problem. Many cancer treatments are available to such patients including surgical excision chemotherapy radiotherapy and bone marrow transplantation. While many conventional cancer therapies are often effective in reducing neoplastic growth healthy cells are frequently compromised by cytotoxic treatments. Non selective cell damage causes pain inflammation hair loss immunosuppression and gastrointestinal damage. Improved compositions and methods are needed to treat inhibit or alleviate the development of tumors. For example tumor antigens have been administered to a tumor bearing host in attempts to produce an immune response to the tumor cells in the host. This approach has met with varying and modest results.

Granulysin is a naturally occurring protein expressed in human cytotoxic T lymphocytes CTL and natural killer NK cells. Granulysin expressed in its full length form has a molecular weight of approximately 15 000 Daltons and is known as 15 kD or 15 kDa granulysin. A post translational modified form of 15 kD granulysin in which both the N and C termini are cleaved is known as 9 kD granulysin. The 9 kD granulysin peptide has been extensively studied and is observed to possess anti microbial and tumorcidal activity Hanson et al. 36 413 422 1999 Krensky 59 317 320 2000 Clayberger et al. 15 560 565 2003 Deng et al. 174 5243 5248 2005 Stenger et al. 282 121 125 1998 and Huang et al. 178 77 84 2007 . The 9 kD granulysin peptide is also known to have cytolytic properties and its resulting toxicity may limit its therapeutic use.

The present disclosure provides a method for stimulating an immune response or enhancing the efficacy of a vaccine without simultaneously initiating a cytolytic response in a host. Several publications disclose that 9 kD granulysin is a cytolytic and antimicrobial compound. However until recently the properties of the full length 15 kD granulysin protein were unknown. One reason for the lack of research was because an animal model did not exist mice do not express granulysin . In addition others reported substantial technical issues when trying to constitutively express the full length 15 kD protein in vitro.

Chen et al. U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008 0050382 A1 identified 15 kD granulysin in blister fluids from skin lesions of Stevens Johnson Syndrome SJS and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis TEN patients. In vivo injection of the blister fluid into epidermis of nude mice induced massive skin cell death mimicking the human pathology of SJS TEN. Chen et al. concluded that 15 kD granulysin mediated this undesired immune response in the host. In contrast to the study by Chen et al. the inventors have determined that recombinant full length 15 kD granulysin is not cytolytic and surprisingly exhibits substantially more immune stimulating activity than 9 kD granulysin.

The inventors have also determined that 15 kD granulysin activates monocytes to differentiate into monocyte derived dendritic cells MO DC thereby initiating an immune response in a subject that can produce allospecific T cells and can therefore be used as a vaccine adjuvant alone or in combination with other vaccine preparations or therapeutic agents.

A method has also been developed to produce 15 kD granulysin in vitro using a recombinant vector encoding full length 15 kD granulysin. In addition methods are disclosed for using 15 kD granulysin to activate desired immune responses in vaccination infection or other immunotherapies. Additionally methods are disclosed for using the 15 kD granulysin to block induction of an immune response in autoimmune diseases or organ transplantation.

The disclosure also relates to using 15 kD granulysin to induce the differentiation of monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells. In several embodiments the methods are used to identify monocyte derived dendritic cells from other cells of the immune system such as macrophages. In a further embodiment the methods are used to initiate or stimulate an immune response in a host following administration of 15 kD granulysin to treat lessen or inhibit an immune based disorder. Alternatively the method can be used for in vitro differentiation of monocytes into dendritic cells and or production of allospecific T cells. The methods are also effective for inhibiting an undesired immune response in an immunocompromised host for example someone who has or is a candidate for undergoing solid organ transplantation such as a dialysis patient.

In some embodiments 15 kD granulysin can inhibit the development of a tumor in a host for example to treat or inhibit the tumor. In another aspect 15 kD granulysin is effective for the treatment of a non infectious disease or disorder. In another embodiment 15 kD granulysin may be used as a vaccine adjuvant for example as an anti tumor vaccine adjuvant e.g. an adjuvant in a Hepatitis B virus HBV or Hepatitis C virus HCV prophylactic vaccine. In another embodiment 15 kD granulysin can be used as an adjuvant for an allergen based vaccine.

In one aspect the immunogenicity of an antigen may be enhanced by increasing the specific antigen presenting function of dendritic cells in a mammalian host. Prior to immunization with an antigen the host is treated with 15 kD granulysin. This activates and expands the number of monocytes in the host and causes the monocytes to differentiate into monocyte derived dendritic cells. In some instances the host may be given a local e.g. subcutaneous intramuscular etc. injection of antigen in combination with 15 kD granulysin such as the administration of an immunostimulatory sequence for example a CpG motif containing oligonucleotide interleukin 1 IL 1 lipopolysaccharide LPS or an additional toll like receptor TLR agonist. In other examples the antigen may be administered to a subject as a fusion protein with 15 kD granulysin. The disclosed methods promote the recruitment and maturation of monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells while concurrently inducing antigen specific migration from the blood vessels to tissues and subsequently the migration of monocyte derived dendritic cells to lymphoid organs. The monocyte derived dendritic cells can then interact with and present processed antigens to local T cells that in turn initiate an immune response to the presented antigen.

The methods of the invention are particularly useful in subjects with a sub optimal immune response for example in conditions of chronic infection a lack of immune response to tumor antigens anergic or immunosuppressed individuals or a low responsiveness to allergens.

In one aspect the disclosed methods are used to enhance the host s immune response to tumor cells present in the host s body.

In another embodiment 15 kD granulysin is used to delay development of a tumor in a subject induce tolerance to a transplanted organ in a mammalian transplant recipient or inhibit an immune based disorder in a subject such as an autoimmune disorder. A therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be administered to a subject having one or more of these conditions.

In yet another embodiment a method of generating an activated T lymphocyte is provided wherein a monocyte derived dendritic cell is produced following incubation with 15 kD granulysin and the monocyte derived dendritic cell is contacted with a T lymphocyte in vitro thereby producing an activated T lymphocyte. In other examples a monocyte derived dendritic cell is produced following incubation with a fusion protein of 15 kD granulysin and a target antigen.

The foregoing and other features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description which proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.

Any nucleic acid and amino acid sequences listed herein or in the accompanying sequence listing are shown using standard letter abbreviations for nucleotide bases and three letter code for amino acids as defined in 37 C.F.R. 1.822. In at least some cases only one strand of each nucleic acid sequence is shown but the complementary strand is understood as included by any reference to the displayed strand.

The Sequence Listing is submitted as an ASCII text file in the form of the file named Sequence Listing.txt which was created on Jul. 18 2014 and is 2973 bytes which is incorporated by reference herein.

The inventors have discovered that 9 and 15 kD granulysin have very different activities. For example 9 kD granulysin is cytotoxic while 15 kD granulysin is not. Recombinant 9 kD granulysin lyses a wide variety of tumor cells as well as pathogens including gram positive and gram negative bacteria fungi parasites and intracellular organisms such as . In contrast 15 kD granulysin does not kill any cells eukaryotic or prokaryotic .

The 15 kD but not 9 kD granulysin activates monocytes and . Moreover 15 kD but not 9 kD granulysin activates monocytes to become immature dendritic cells and can activate immature dendritic cells that had been activated by the conventional method GM CSF plus IL 4 to become mature dendritic cells . The 15 kD granulysin but not GM CSF induces rapid phenotypic changes in monocytes .

Recombinant 15 kD granulysin or GM CSF induces monocytes to express CD1c CD11a CD29 CD40 CD54 CD80 CD86 and HLA DR see . GM CSF but not 15 kD granulysin induces expression of CD1a on monocytes.

The 15 kD granulysin induces monocytes to express IL 1 IL 1 IL 6 IL 12 IL 23 and TNF but does not induce expression of IL 10 IL 18 or IL 27. In addition 15 kD granulysin causes a rapid gene expression in monocytes peaking at about 4 hours but GM CF induced gene expression is not evident until about 24 hours.

Monocytes activated by 15 kD granulysin or GM CSF activate allospecific T cells but 9 kD granulysin does not exhibit this activity. Incubation of monocytes with 15 kD granulysin causes rapid phenotypic changes and a concomitant increase in expression of a panel of proinflammatory cytokines. Lastly addition of 15 kD granulysin to unseparated peripheral blood mononuclear cells induces both Th1 and Th17 responses but inhibits Th2 responses . Thus 15 kD granulysin is a potent effective in the picomolar to nanomolar range and novel activator of the proinflammatory immune response that is believed to be useful as a novel adjuvant for vaccines. These results also enable an in vitro method of stimulating production of an allospecific T lymphocyte.

It is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited to the particular methodology protocols cell lines animal species or genera constructs and reagents described as such may vary. It is also understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

As used herein the singular forms a and and the refer to both the singular as well plural unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to an immunization includes a plurality of such immunizations and reference to the cell includes reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof known to one of ordinary skill in the art and so forth. As used herein the term comprises means includes. Thus a composition comprising 15 kD granulysin means including 15 kD granulysin without excluding other additional components.

It is further to be understood that all base sizes or amino acid sizes and all molecular weight or molecular mass values given for nucleic acids or polypeptides are approximate and are provided for descriptive purposes unless otherwise indicated. Although many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used particular suitable methods and materials are described below. In case of conflict the present specification including explanation of terms will control.

All publications and patent applications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

All of the technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs unless clearly indicated otherwise.

Unless otherwise noted technical terms are used according to conventional usage. Definitions of common terms in molecular biology may be found in Benjamin Lewin published by Oxford University Press 1994 ISBN 0 19 854287 9 Kendrew et al. eds. published by Blackwell Science Ltd. 1994 ISBN 0 632 02182 9 and Robert A. Meyers ed. published by VCH Publishers Inc. 1995 ISBN 1 56081 569 8 .

In order to facilitate review of the various embodiments of this disclosure the following explanations of specific terms are provided 

Activation Agent refers to a compound such as a naturally occurring protein which acts on monocytes to expand e.g. proliferate and differentiate into monocyte derived dendritic cells MO DC . In a preferred embodiment the activating agent is 15 kD granulysin. The dose of the activating agent will be effective to substantially increase the number of monocytes. The increase in the number of monocytes after activation can be quite high usually by at least 2 fold more typically 5 fold more and may be as high as about 20 to about 75 fold more. Monocytes activated by 15 kD granulysin can differentiate into monocyte derived dendritic cells and will therefore typically express increased levels of CD40 CD80 and CD83 as compared to non activated monocytes. Additionally monocytes activated through the administration of 15 kD granulysin and thus differentiated into monocyte derived dendritic cells will express reduced levels of lineage markers such as CD14 as compared to untreated monocytes and can be identified on the basis of these criteria among others.

Allergen Allergy is a disorder of the immune system also referred to as atopy. Allergic reactions occur to normally harmless environmental substances known as allergens e.g. dust mite dander. Common allergic reactions include eczema hives hay fever asthma and food and drug allergies. In some instances a subject s immune response to an allergen is severe enough to induce anaphylactic shock.

Animal Living multi cellular vertebrate organisms a category that includes for example mammals and birds. The term mammal includes both human and non human mammals. Similarly the term subject includes both human and veterinary subjects.

Antigen A compound composition or substance that can stimulate the production of antibodies or a T cell response in an animal including compositions that are injected or absorbed into an animal. An antigen reacts with the products of specific humoral or cellular immunity including those induced by heterologous immunogens. The term antigen includes all related antigenic epitopes. Examples of exemplary antigens of interest include proteins polypeptides polysaccharides a DNA molecule a RNA molecule a whole cell lysate an apoptotic cell or a combination thereof.

An antigenic polypeptide is a polypeptide to which an immune response such as a T cell response or an antibody response can be stimulated. Epitope or antigenic determinant refers to a site on an antigen to which B and or T cells respond. T cells can respond to the epitope when the epitope is presented in conjunction with an MHC molecule. Epitopes can be formed both from contiguous amino acids linear or noncontiguous amino acids juxtaposed by tertiary folding of an antigenic polypeptide conformational . Epitopes formed from contiguous amino acids are typically retained on exposure to denaturing solvents whereas epitopes formed by tertiary folding are typically lost on treatment with denaturing solvents. Normally a B cell epitope will include at least about 5 amino acids but can be as small as 3 4 amino acids. A T cell epitope such as a CTL epitope will include at least about 7 9 amino acids and a helper T cell epitope at least about 12 20 amino acids. Normally an epitope will include between about 5 and 15 amino acids such as 9 10 12 or 15 amino acids. The amino acids are in a unique spatial conformation. In one particular example the antigen is an antigen obtained from a subject who is a donor such as of an organ or of bone marrow to another genetically different individual. In another example the antigen is a tumor antigen.

A target antigen includes but is not limited to an antigen that is present in a disease or disorder such as a tumor antigen an autoimmune antigen an allergen antigen or an antigen expressed in solid organ transplantation rejection. A target antigen may be any antigen for which it is desirable to modulate an immune response in a subject. In particular embodiments the disclosed methods enhance or stimulate an immune response in a subject against a target antigen for example a tumor antigen . In other embodiments the disclosed methods inhibit or decrease an immune response in a subject against a target antigen for example an autoimmune antigen an allergen or an antigen expressed in solid organ transplantation rejection .

Autoimmune disorder A disorder or disease in which the immune system produces an immune response e.g. a B cell or a T cell response against an endogenous antigen with consequent injury to tissues. The injury may be localized to certain organs such as thyroiditis or may involve a particular tissue at different locations such as Goodpasture s disease or may be systemic such as lupus erythematosus.

Cancer A malignant neoplasm that has undergone characteristic anaplasia with loss of differentiation increased rate of growth invasion of surrounding tissue and is capable of metastasis. For example thyroid cancer is a malignant neoplasm that arises in or from thyroid tissue and breast cancer is a malignant neoplasm that arises in or from breast tissue such as a ductal carcinoma . Residual cancer is cancer that remains in a subject after any form of treatment given to the subject to reduce or eradicate the cancer. Metastatic cancer is a cancer at one or more sites in the body other than the site of origin of the original primary cancer from which the metastatic cancer is derived.

Chemokine chemoattractant cytokine A type of cytokine a soluble molecule that a cell produces to control reactions between other cells that specifically alters the behavior of leukocytes white blood cells . Examples include but are not limited to interleukin 8 IL 8 platelet factor 4 melanoma growth stimulatory protein and the like.

Chemotherapy chemotherapeutic agents As used herein any chemical agent with therapeutic usefulness in the treatment of diseases characterized by abnormal cell growth. Such diseases include tumors neoplasms and cancer as well as diseases characterized by hyperplastic growth such as psoriasis. In one embodiment a chemotherapeutic agent is an agent of use in treating neoplasms such as solid tumors. In one embodiment a chemotherapeutic agent is a radioactive molecule. One of skill in the art can readily identify a chemotherapeutic agent of use e.g. see Slapak and Kufe Chapter 86 in Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 14th edition Perry et al. Ch. 17 in Abeloff Clinical Oncology 2ed. 2000 Churchill Livingstone Inc Baltzer L Berkery R eds Oncology Pocket Guide to Chemotherapy 2nd ed. St. Louis Mosby Year Book 1995 Fischer D S Knobf M F Durivage H J eds The Cancer Chemotherapy Handbook 4th ed. St. Louis Mosby Year Book 1993 .

Contacting Placement in direct physical association including both a solid and liquid form. Contacting can occur in vitro with isolated cells or in vivo by administering to a subject.

Cytokine Proteins made by cells that affect the behavior of other cells such as lymphocytes. In one embodiment a cytokine is a chemokine a molecule that affects cellular trafficking. The term cytokine is used as a generic name for a diverse group of soluble proteins and peptides that act as humoral regulators at nanomolar to picomolar concentrations and which either under normal or pathological conditions modulate the functional activities of individual cells and tissues. These proteins also mediate interactions between cells directly and regulate processes taking place in the extracellular environment. Examples of cytokines include but are not limited to tumor necrosis factor TNF interleukin 6 IL 6 interleukin 10 IL 10 interleukin 12 IL 12 macrophage inflammatory protein 2 MIP 2 keratinocyte derived cytokine KC and interferon INF 

Decrease Becoming less or smaller as in number amount size or intensity. In one example decreasing the risk of a disease such as for tumor formation includes a decrease in the likelihood of developing the disease by at least about 20 for example by at least about 30 40 50 60 70 80 or 90 . In another example decreasing the risk of a disease includes a delay in the development of the disease for example a delay of at least about six months such as about one year such as about two years about five years or about ten years.

In one example decreasing the signs and symptoms of a tumor includes decreasing the size volume tumor burden or number of tumors such as skin tumors or metastases by a desired amount for example by at least about 5 10 15 20 25 30 50 75 or even at least about 90 as compared to a response in the absence of the therapeutic composition.

Dendritic cells DC Dendritic cells are antigen presenting cells APC involved in immune responses. Dendritic cells include plasmacytoid dendritic cells and myeloid dendritic cells. Their major function is to obtain antigen in tissues migrate to lymphoid organs and present the antigen in order to activate local T cells which in turn generate an immune response. Immature dendritic cells originate in the bone marrow and reside in the periphery as immature cells. In one embodiment a dendritic cell is a plasmacytoid dendritic cell. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells differentiate from precursors called DC2 while myeloid dendritic cells differentiate from precursors termed DC1. 

Dendritic cells are capable of evolving from immature antigen capturing cells to mature antigen presenting T cells converting antigens into immunogens and expressing molecules such as cytokines chemokines co stimulatory molecules and proteases to initiate an immune response.

Dendritic cells are derived from hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow and are widely distributed as immature cells within all tissues particularly those that interface with the environment e.g. skin mucosal surfaces etc. and in lymphoid organs. Immature dendritic cells are recruited to sites of inflammation in peripheral tissues following pathogen or foreign body invasion. Immature dendritic cells may express the chemokine receptors CCR1 CCR2 CCR5 CCR6 and CXCR1. Immature dendritic cells capture antigens by phagocytosis macropinocytosis or via interaction with a variety of cell surface receptors and endocytosis. Internalization of foreign antigens can subsequently trigger their maturation and migration from peripheral tissues to lymphoid organs see below .

The ability of dendritic cells to regulate immunity is dependent on dendritic cell differentiation as it depends on their maturation state. A variety of factors can induce differentiation following antigen uptake and processing within dendritic cells including whole bacteria or bacterial derived antigens e.g. lipopolysaccharide inflammatory cytokines ligation of select cell surface receptors e.g. CD40 and viral products e.g. double stranded RNA . During their conversion from immature to mature cells dendritic cells undergo a number of phenotype and functional changes. The process of dendritic cell maturation in general involves a redistribution of major histocompatibility complex MHC molecules from intracellular endocytic compartments to the dendritic cell surface down regulation of antigen internalization an increase in the surface expression of co stimulatory molecules morphological changes e.g. formation of dendrites cytoskeleton re organization secretion of chemokines cytokines and proteases and surface expression of adhesion molecules and chemokine receptors. Dendritic cells are characterized by their distinctive morphology and high levels of surface MHC class II expression such as CD40 and CD80 markers.

Dendritic Cell Precursor Immature cells that can differentiate into dendritic cells. In one embodiment a dendritic cell precursor is a DC1 cell that differentiates into myeloid cells e.g. a monocyte .

Differentiation The process by which cells become more specialized to perform biological functions and differentiation is a property that is totally or partially lost by cells that have undergone malignant transformation. For example dendritic cell precursors such as monocytes differentiate into dendritic cells under the influence of certain cytokines and growth factors.

Epitope An antigenic determinant. These are particular chemical groups or peptide sequences on a molecule that are antigenic e.g. that elicit a specific immune response. An antibody binds a particular antigenic epitope.

Expansion and Activation Refers to the length of time required for activation and expansion of monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells. The time taken is usually at least about 2 days more usually about 1 week and may take about 10 days to about 2 weeks for optimal expansion. The length of time allotted for activation and expansion can be predicted based on previous trials with the activation agent at a similar dose or may be monitored individually by quantitating the change in the number of dendritic cells present in the peripheral blood of a subject.

Flt 3 ligand flt 3L A factor that binds to the flt 3 receptor. The flt 3 ligand promotes long term expansion and differentiation of human pro B cells in the presence of IL 7 or IL 7 and IL 3. The flt 3 ligand is known to support the survival of precursor cell types in the lineage of blood forming cells such as highly proliferative potential colony forming cells e.g. see Lyman et al. 75 1157 67 1993 .

Granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF A factor which modulates the maturation and function of dendritic cells Witmer Pack et al. 166 1484 98 1987 .

GM CSF is a monomeric protein of 127 amino acids with two glycosylation sites. The protein is synthesized as a precursor of 144 amino acids which included a hydrophobic secretory signal sequence at the amino terminal end. The human gene has a length of approximately 2.5 kilobase kb and contains four exons. The distance between the GM CSF gene and the IL 3 gene is approximately 9 kb. The human GM CSF gene maps to chromosome 5q22 31.

GM CSF was isolated initially as a factor stimulating the growth of macrophage granulocyte containing colonies in soft agar cultures. GM CSF is also involved in the growth and development of granulocyte and macrophage progenitor cells. GM CSF stimulates myeloblasts and monoblasts and triggers irreversible differentiation of these cells. GM CSF synergizes with erythropoietin in the proliferation of erythroid and megakaryocytic progenitor cells.

GM CSF has been used clinically for the physiological reconstitution of hematopoiesis in diseases characterized either by an aberrant maturation of blood cells or by a reduced production of leukocytes. The usual dose route and schedules for GM CSF are 5 10 g kg day either by 4 6 hours intravenous infusion or by subcutaneous injection.

Granulysin Granulysin is expressed from a gene located on human chromosome 2 and comprises 6 exons within a 3.9 kb genomic locus encoding at least four alternatively spliced transcripts NKG5 519 520 and 522 . The predicted amino acid sequence of transcript 519 can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4 994 369 incorporated herein by reference . Granulysin is a cationic molecule present in the granules of cytotoxic T cells and NK cells. Granulysin is expressed as a 15 kD naturally occurring precursor protein known as 15 kD granulysin. Granulysin is constitutively secreted as the 15 kD precursor form a portion of which is localized in cytolytic granules where it is post translationally processed into a 9 kD form. Granulysin in the 9 kD form is known to exhibit potent cytotoxic activity against a broad panel of microbial targets including transplant cells bacteria fungi and parasites Stenger et al. 20 390 394 1999 Clayberger and Krensky 15 560 565 2003 Hanson et al. 36 413 422 1999 Sarwal et al. 62 21 31 2001 Wang et al. 165 1486 1490 2000 and damaging negatively charged cell membranes because of its positive charge Kaspar et al. 167 350 356 2001 . Deng et al. 174 5243 5248 2005 also observed that the 9 kD post translational form of granulysin possessed anti microbial activity and chemotactic activity.

Until recently full length recombinant 15 kD granulysin had not been successfully isolated or characterized. Animal models are difficult to prepare because mice do not possess the granulysin gene.

As referred to herein 15 kD granulysin refers to the full length precursor form of granulysin with a molecular weight of about 15 kilodaltons and is substantially free of 9 kD granulysin . The instant invention is distinct from the previously identified and characterized form of 9 kD granulysin referred to in the art and herein as 9 kD granulysin which has an approximate molecular weight of about 9 000 daltons. In a preferred embodiment 15 kD granulysin includes SEQ ID NO. 1. In additional embodiments 15 kD granulysin includes SEQ ID NO 2 a nucleic acid sequence encoding 15 kD granulysin. In some embodiments of the disclosed methods and compositions the 15 kD granulysin includes peptides that have at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 1 and retain the described activity of SEQ ID NO 1. Alternatively one two or three conservative substitutions can be made to SEQ ID NO 1. In other embodiments the 15 kD granulysin includes nucleic acid molecules that have at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 2 and encode a polypeptide that retains the described activity of 15 kD granulysin.

Nucleic acid and protein sequences for 15 kD granulysin are publicly available. For example GENBANK Accession No. NM 012483 discloses an exemplary 15 kD granulysin nucleic acid sequence and GENBANK Accession No. NP 036615 discloses an exemplary 15 kD granulysin amino acid sequence both of which are incorporated by reference as provided by GENBANK on Oct. 8 2010.

Immune response A response of a cell of the immune system such as a B cell or a T cell to a stimulus. In one embodiment the response is specific for a particular antigen an antigen specific response . In another embodiment the response is an inflammatory response.

A parameter of an immune response is any particular measurable aspect of an immune response including but not limited to cytokine secretion IL 6 IL 10 IFN etc. immunoglobulin production dendritic cell maturation and proliferation of a cell of the immune system. One of skill in the art can readily determine an increase in any one of these parameters using known laboratory assays. In one specific non limiting example to assess cell proliferation incorporation of H thymidine can be assessed. A substantial increase in a parameter of the immune response is a significant increase in this parameter as compared to a control. Specific non limiting examples of a substantial increase are at least about a 50 increase at least about a 75 increase at least about a 90 increase at least about a 100 increase at least about a 200 increase at least about a 300 increase and at least about a 500 increase. One of skill in the art can readily identify a significant increase using known statistical methods.

Immunocompromised An immunocompromised subject is a subject who is incapable of developing or unlikely to develop a robust immune response usually as a result of disease malnutrition or immunosuppressive therapy. An immunocompromised immune system is an immune system that is functioning below normal. Immunocompromised subjects are more susceptible to opportunistic infections for example viral fungal protozoan or bacterial infections prion diseases and certain neoplasms. Those who can be considered to be immunocompromised include but are not limited to subjects with AIDS or HIV positive subjects with severe combined immune deficiency SCID diabetics subjects who have had transplants and who are taking immunosuppressives and those who are receiving chemotherapy for cancer. Immunocompromised individuals also includes subjects with most forms of cancer other than skin cancer sickle cell anemia cystic fibrosis those who do not have a spleen subjects with end stage kidney disease dialysis and those who have been taking corticosteroids on a frequent basis by pill or injection within the last year. Subjects with severe liver lung or heart disease also may be immunocompromised.

Immunostimulatory CpG motifs Immunostimulatory sequences that trigger monocytes macrophages and lymphocytes to produce a variety of pro inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. CpG motifs are found in bacterial DNA. The innate immune response elicited by CpG DNA reduces host susceptibility to infectious pathogens and can also trigger detrimental inflammatory reactions. Immunostimulatory CpG motifs are found in D and K type oligodeoxynucleotides see for example PCT Publication No. WO 01 51500 published on Jul. 19 2001 .

Interferon alpha IFN At least 23 different variants of IFN are known. The individual proteins have molecular masses between 19 26 kD and consist of proteins with lengths of 156 166 and 172 amino acids. All IFN subtypes possess a common conserved sequence region between amino acid positions 115 151 while the amino terminal ends are variable. Many IFN subtypes differ in their sequences at only one or two positions. Naturally occurring variants also include proteins truncated by 10 amino acids at the carboxyl terminal end.

There are at least 23 different IFN genes. They have a length of 1 2 kb and are clustered on human chromosome 9p22. Based upon the structures two types of IFN alpha genes designated class I and II are distinguished. They encode proteins of 156 166 and 172 amino acids respectively.

Interferon gamma IFN IFN is a dimeric protein with subunits of 146 amino acids. The protein is glycosylated at two sites and the pI is 8.3 8.5. IFN is synthesized as a precursor protein of 166 amino acids including a secretory signal sequence of 23 amino acids. Two molecular forms of the biologically active protein of 20 and 25 kD have been described. Both of them are glycosylated at position 25. The 25 kD form is also glycosylated at position 97. The observed differences of natural IFN with respect to molecular mass and charge are due to variable glycosylation patterns. 40 60 kD forms observed under non denaturing conditions are dimers and tetramers of IFN . The human gene has a length of approximately 6 kb. It contains four exons and maps to chromosome 12q24.1.

Interleukin 2 IL 2 is a cytokine having a length of 133 amino acids. IL 2 has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration FDA for the treatment of some forms of cancer including kidney cancer melanoma and lymphoma. IL 2 can be administered via intravenous or subcutaneous injections where IL 2 is typically administered daily or twice daily over a course of several days until the course of treatment is complete. IL 2 functions as an immune modulator and stimulates the proliferation and activation of immune cells such as T cells and Natural Killer cells.

Interleukin 4 The gene for Interleukin 4 IL 4 is located on chromosome 5 at position q31. The nucleotide sequence of IL 4 was isolated in 1986 and confirmed its similarity to the mouse protein B Cell Stimulating Factor BCSF 1 . IL 4 is a cytokine that differentiates na ve helper T cells into Th2 cells. IL 4 stimulates the production of IgE and induces eosinophil mediated attacks against helminthic infections and allergens. IL 4 is currently used for therapeutic intervention in a wide range of malignant diseases as an anti tumor agent

Interleukin 10 IL 10 is a homodimeric protein with subunits having a length of 160 amino acids that is a cytokine. Human IL 10 is a cytokine with 73 percent amino acid homology to murine IL 10. The human IL 10 gene contains four exons. IL10 inhibits the synthesis of a number of cytokines such as IL 2 and IFN in Th1 subpopulations of T cells but not of Th2. IL10 can be detected with an ELISA assay. In addition the murine mast cell line D36 can be used to bioassay human IL10. The intracellular factor can also be detected by flow cytometry.

Isolated An isolated biological component such as a nucleic acid peptide or protein has been substantially separated produced apart from or purified away from other biological components in the cell of the organism in which the component naturally occurs e.g. other chromosomal and extrachromosomal DNA and RNA and proteins. Nucleic acids peptides and proteins which have been isolated thus include nucleic acids and proteins purified by standard purification methods. The term also embraces nucleic acids peptides and proteins prepared by recombinant expression in a host cell as well as chemically synthesized nucleic acids.

Leukocyte Cells in the blood also termed white cells that are involved in defending the body against infective organisms and foreign substances. Leukocytes are produced in the bone marrow. There are 5 main types of white blood cell subdivided between 2 main groups polymorphonuclear leukocytes neutrophils eosinophils basophils and mononuclear leukocytes monocytes and lymphocytes . When an infection is present the production of leukocytes increases.

Mammal This term includes both human and non human mammals. Similarly the term subject includes both human and veterinary subjects.

Maturation The process in which an immature cell such as an immature dendritic cell changes in form or function to become a functionally mature dendritic cell.

Neoplasm An abnormal cellular proliferation which includes benign and malignant tumors as well as other proliferative disorders.

Nucleic acid A deoxyribonucleotide or ribonucleotide polymer in either single or double stranded form and unless otherwise limited encompasses known analogues of natural nucleotides that hybridize to nucleic acids in a manner similar to naturally occurring nucleotides.

Parenteral Administered outside of the intestine e.g. not via the alimentary tract. Generally parenteral formulations are those that will be administered through any possible mode except ingestion. This term especially refers to injections whether administered intravenously intrathecally intramuscularly intraperitoneally intraarticularly or subcutaneously and various surface applications including intranasal intradermal and topical application for instance.

Pharmaceutical agent or drug A chemical compound or composition capable of inducing a desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect when properly administered to a subject. Pharmaceutical agents include but are not limited to chemotherapeutic agents and anti infective agents.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers useful in this invention are conventional. The University of the Sciences in Philadelphia Editor Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 21Edition 2005 describes compositions and formulations suitable for pharmaceutical delivery of the proteins herein disclosed.

In general the nature of the carrier will depend on the particular mode of administration being employed. For instance parenteral formulations usually comprise injectable fluids that include pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable fluids such as water physiological saline balanced salt solutions aqueous dextrose glycerol or the like as a vehicle. For solid compositions e.g. powder pill tablet or capsule forms conventional non toxic solid carriers can include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch or magnesium stearate. In addition to biologically neutral carriers pharmaceutical compositions to be administered can contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents preservatives and pH buffering agents and the like for example sodium acetate or sorbitan monolaurate.

Inhibiting or treating a disease Inhibiting a disease refers to inhibiting the full development of a disease for example in a person who is known to have a predisposition to a disease such as an autoimmune disorder. An example of a person with a known predisposition is someone with a history of familial cancers or who has been exposed to factors that predispose the subject to a condition such smoking or occupational exposure to a carcinogen. Inhibition of a disease can span the spectrum from partial inhibition to substantially complete inhibition prevention of the disease. In some examples the term inhibiting refers to reducing or delaying the onset or progression of a disease. A subject to be administered with a therapeutically effective amount of the pharmaceutical compound to inhibit or treat the above illnesses can be identified by standard diagnosing techniques for such a disorder for example basis of family history or risk factor to develop the disease or disorder. In contrast treatment refers to a therapeutic intervention that ameliorates a sign or symptom of a disease or pathological condition after it has begun to develop.

Purified The term purified does not require absolute purity rather it is intended as a relative term. Thus for example a purified peptide preparation is one in which the peptide or protein is more enriched than the peptide or protein is in its natural environment within a cell. Preferably a preparation is purified such that the protein or peptide represents at least 50 of the total peptide or protein content of the preparation. In some embodiments a purified preparation contains at least 60 at least 70 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 or more of the protein or peptide.

Subject at Risk An individual such as a human or a veterinary subject that is prone to developing certain conditions such as a tumor. This can be due to their age genotype or due to an environmental exposure. Examples are a human subject who is exposed to a carcinogen due to an occupational exposure or a human subject exposed to cigarette smoke either because that individual smokes or due to exposure to second hand smoke or a subject exposed to ultraviolet light such as due to tanning or a subject genetically pre disposed to developing a tumor.

T cell or T lymphocyte A white blood cell critical to the immune response. T cells include but are not limited to CD4 T cells and CD8 T cells. A CD4 T lymphocyte is an immune cell that carries a marker on its surface known as cluster of differentiation 4 CD4 . These cells also known as helper T cells help orchestrate the immune response including antibody responses as well as killer T cell responses. CD8 T cells carry the cluster of differentiation 8 CD8 marker. In one embodiment a CD8 T cell is a cytotoxic T lymphocyte. In another embodiment a CD8 cell is a suppressor T cell.

As used herein allogeneic encompasses a genetically different phenotype present in non identical individuals of the same species. Cells tissues organs and the like from or derived from a non identical individual of the same species are allogeneic. An alloantigen encompasses any antigen recognized by different individuals of the same species. Organisms cells tissues organs and the like from or derived from a single individual or from a genetically identical individual are autologous. 

Therapeutic agent Used in a generic sense it includes treating agents prophylactic agents and replacement agents.

Therapeutically effective dose or amount A dose or quantity of a specified compound sufficient to inhibit advancement or to cause regression of the disease or which is capable of relieving symptoms caused by the disease such as pain or swelling. For instance this can be the amount or dose of composition required to inhibit a tumor delay the development of a tumor or reduce the risk of developing a tumor. In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of the composition is the amount that alone or together with one or more additional therapeutic agents such as additional anti neoplastic agents or immunosuppressive agents induces the desired response such as inhibition or treatment of a tumor such as skin cancer. In other examples it is an amount of the composition that can cause regression of an existing tumor or treat one or more signs or symptoms associated with a tumor in a subject. The preparations disclosed herein are administered in therapeutically effective amounts.

In one example a desired response is to inhibit and in some examples prevent the development of a tumor. In another example a desired response is to delay the development progression or metastasis of a tumor for example by at least about 3 months at least about six months at least about one year at least about two years at least about five years or at least about ten years. In a further example a desired response is to decrease the occurrence of cancer such as melanoma colon cancer liver cancer or lung cancer. In another example a desired response is to decrease the signs and symptoms of cancer such as the size volume or number of tumors or metastases. For example the composition including 15 kD granulysin can in some examples decrease the size volume tumor burden or number of tumors such as colorectal tumors by a desired amount for example by at least 5 at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 50 at least 75 or even at least 90 as compared to a response in the absence of the therapeutic composition.

The effective amount of 15 kD granulysin that is administered to a human or veterinary subject will vary depending upon a number of factors associated with that subject for example the overall health of the subject. An effective amount of an agent can be determined by varying the dosage of the product and measuring the resulting therapeutic response such as the regression of a tumor. Effective amounts also can be determined through various in vitro in vivo or in situ immunoassays. The disclosed agents can be administered in a single dose or in several doses as needed to obtain the desired response. However the effective amount can be dependent on the source applied the subject being treated the severity and type of the condition being treated and the manner of administration.

A therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be administered systemically or locally. In addition an effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be administered in a single dose or in several doses for example daily during a course of treatment. For example a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can vary from about 0.01 mg kg body weight to about 1 g kg body weight in some specific non limiting examples or from about 0.01 mg kg to about 60 mg kg of body weight based on efficacy.

The compositions disclosed herein have equal applications in medical and veterinary settings. Therefore the general term subject is understood to include all animals with a granulysin gene including but not limited to humans or veterinary subjects such as other non human primates dogs cats horses pigs cows and transgenic mice.

Toll Like Receptors Toll Like Receptors TLRs are a class of proteins that play an important role in the innate immune response. They are receptors that recognize structurally conserved molecules derived from pathogens. Upon entry of a pathogen derived molecule into a host such as via the lungs or skin the TLRs activate a host s immune cell responses. TLRs are a type of pattern recognition receptor PRR and recognize molecules that are broadly shared among pathogens but are distinguishable from the host collectively referred to as pathogen associated molecular patterns PAMPs . It has been estimated that most mammalian species have between ten and fifteen types of TLRs. At least thirteen TLRs named TLR1 to TLR13 have been identified in humans and mice together and equivalent forms of many of these have been found in other mammalian species. However equivalents of certain TLRs found in humans are not present in all mammals. For example a gene coding for a protein analogous to TLR10 in humans is present in mice but appears to have been damaged at some point in the past by a retrovirus. On the other hand mice express TLRs 11 12 and 13 none of which are represented in humans. Examples of molecules that can act as TLR agonists include flagellin zymosan poly I C CpG oligonucleotides endotoxins resiquimod imiquimod gardiquimod and lipopolysaccharide LPS .

Tumor An abnormal growth of cells which can be benign or malignant. Cancer is a malignant tumor which is characterized by abnormal or uncontrolled cell growth. Other features often associated with malignancy include metastasis interference with the normal functioning of neighboring cells release of cytokines or other secretory products at abnormal levels and suppression or aggravation of inflammatory or immunological response invasion of surrounding or distant tissues or organs such as lymph nodes etc. Metastatic disease refers to cancer cells that have left the original tumor site and migrate to other parts of the body for example via the blood vessels or lymph system.

The amount of a tumor in an individual is the tumor burden which can be measured as the number volume or weight of the tumor. A tumor that does not metastasize is referred to as benign. A tumor that invades the surrounding tissue and or can metastasize is referred to as malignant. Examples of hematological tumors include leukemias including acute leukemias such as 11q23 positive acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia and myeloblastic promyelocytic myelomonocytic monocytic and erythroleukemia chronic leukemias such as chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia polycythemia vera lymphoma Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s lymphoma indolent and high grade forms multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia heavy chain disease myelodysplastic syndrome hairy cell leukemia and myelodysplasia.

Examples of solid tumors such as sarcomas and carcinomas include fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma and other sarcomas synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma lymphoid malignancy pancreatic cancer breast cancer including basal breast carcinoma ductal carcinoma and lobular breast carcinoma lung cancers ovarian cancer prostate cancer hepatocellular carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma papillary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer testicular tumor seminoma bladder carcinoma and CNS tumors such as a glioma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyrgioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma meningioma melanoma neuroblastoma and retinoblastoma .

In several examples a tumor is melanoma esophageal cancer liver cancer gastrointestinal cancer colon cancer or lung carcinoma. In another example a tumor is a skin tumor.

Vaccine As defined herein a vaccine may be an immunogenic composition for stimulating an immune response against a target antigen. Such compositions may include a preparation of attenuated microorganisms including but not limited to bacteria and viruses living microorganisms killed microorganisms antigens including but not limited to tumor antigens polypeptides nucleic acids or vectors encoding antigens administered for the inhibition amelioration or treatment of non infectious diseases allergies and tumors.

A method is provided for the enhancement of T cell mediated immune responses. In one embodiment the method provides for the activation of monocytes through the administration of 15 kD granulysin.

In another embodiment the method provides for the differentiation of monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells thereby stimulating an immune response or up regulating and already activated immune response in a host.

In yet another embodiment 15 kD granulysin can be used to treat or inhibit disease or treat the symptoms of disease such as an autoimmune disorder or a tumor.

In another aspect 15 kD granulysin can be used as an adjuvant for a vaccine such as a bacterial or viral vaccine.

In one embodiment a target antigen is delivered to peripheral tissues in combination with monocyte derived dendritic cells and may be given as a combined formulation or as a separate formulation. The antigen may be further provided in a booster dose in combination with other adjuvants as is known in the art.

On maturation the monocyte derived dendritic cells migrate to lymphatic organs particularly T cell rich regions of the lymph nodes where T cell activation occurs. Therefore although administration of the antigen and monocyte derived dendritic cells may be localized the resulting immune response is not limited to the tissue of administration.

Conditions of particular interest for use with the disclosed methods involve situations where the host response is sub optimal for example in conditions of chronic infection a lack of immune response to tumor antigens poor responsiveness to allergens and the like. In one aspect the antigen is a tumor antigen and is used to enhance the host s immune response to tumor cells present in the host. In this context the method can be either therapeutic or prophylactic in nature.

Mammalian species that may require enhancement of an immune response include canines and felines equines bovines ovines porcines etc. and primates particularly humans. Animal models such as primate canine or transgenic mouse models can be used for experimental investigations. Animal models of interest include models that involve the up regulation of immune responses to tumors allergens and or infection.

Methods are disclosed for inhibiting tumors for example inhibiting formation of a tumor treating a tumor or reducing the risk of developing a tumor by delivering 15 kD granulysin to a subject either alone or in combination with one or more other anti tumor agents. In some embodiments methods are disclosed for inhibiting conversion of a benign tumor to a malignant tumor or inhibiting metastasis. The tumor can be any tumor including but not limited to tumors of the esophagus lung liver kidney skin colon and gastrointestinal tract. In some examples the tumor can be a mesothelioma or stomach cancer. In other examples the tumor is a skin tumor such as but not limited to a squamous cell carcinoma or a basal cell carcinoma.

The methods disclosed include selecting a subject in need of treatment for the condition and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin. Additional agents such as anti bacterial anti viral or other therapeutic agents such as a chemotherapeutic agent can also be administered to the subject. However in other embodiments substantially pure 15 kD granulysin is administered for example 15 kD granulysin in the substantial or complete absence of 9 kD granulysin.

In several embodiments the disclosure is further directed to anti tumor methods for decreasing the risk of developing a tumor in a subject exposed to a carcinogen or inhibiting or delaying the development of a tumor. The tumor can be for example skin cancer such as basal cell carcinoma keratinocyte carcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma. In another example the tumor can be an esophageal stomach lung kidney brain or colon tumor. In other embodiments 15 kD granulysin is used for the inhibition of mesothelioma.

Treatment of the conditions described herein can be prophylactic or alternatively can be initiated after the development of a condition described herein. Treatment that is prophylactic for instance can be initiated before a subject manifests symptoms of a condition. In some examples such as for skin cancer treatment can be initiated before or during exposure to an agent that damages DNA such as a result of an exposure to a carcinogen UV light oxidative stress alkylation damage or deamination. In some examples treatment can be following the exposure to the DNA damaging agent but before the appearance of a tumor. In some examples treatment can occur before or during exposure to a carcinogen such as an occupational exposure e.g. asbestos or smoking. Treatment prior to the development of the condition is referred to herein as treatment of a subject that is at risk of developing the condition. Accordingly administration of 15 kD granulysin can be performed before during or after the occurrence of the conditions described unless otherwise indicated herein.

Treatment initiated after the development of a condition may result in decreasing the severity of the symptoms of one or more of the conditions or completely removing the symptoms or reducing metastasis.

Non limiting examples of subjects particularly suited to receiving 15 kD granulysin before diagnosis of disease include those whose skin may be exposed to excessive natural or artificial UV irradiation or subjects who are exposed to a carcinogen due to an occupational exposure such as an industrial chemical or due to smoking or exposure to a non infectious agent. In one example a subject who has been exposed to asbestos or silica is at risk for developing mesothelioma. Alternatively the subject may be someone with a genetic predisposition to develop a tumor such as a family history of cancer such as breast lung or colon cancer an infectious risk factor that predisposes to tumor development such as HPV exposure or HCV or Epstein Barr virus infection or a genetic disorder that predisposes to tumor development such as Gardner s syndrome xeroderma pigmentosum Fanconi s anemia Bloom s syndrome or familial adenomatous polyposis . In particular examples the subject has an immunodeficiency such as HIV infection or a drug induced immunodeficiency as in someone who has undergone an organ transplant and is taking immunosuppressive therapy . In another example the subject has an inherited immunodeficiency such as ataxia telangiectasia or Wiskott Aldrich syndrome .

In some examples the subject has not yet developed a tumor. In other examples the subject has a benign tumor that can convert into a malignant or even metastatic tumor. For example the subject may be a smoker who has not developed lung cancer subjects exposed to large or excessive amounts of UV light but who have not developed skin cancer such as melanoma or basal cell carcinoma or a subject with a familial disposition to develop melanoma for example a mutation in the CDKN2A KIT MDM2 or BRAF gene or a diagnosis of xeroderma pigmentosum retinoblastoma Werner syndrome hereditary breast and ovarian cancer or Cowden syndrome. In other embodiments a subject is selected who has clinical risk factors for developing melanoma such as dysplastic nevi extensive freckling or a past history of one or multiple melanomas. In one aspect of the invention formation of tumors is delayed inhibited or decreased. The types of tumors that may occur in response to an agent that damages DNA in the skin include actinic keratosis basal cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma and melanoma.

Whether the formation of tumors in a subject is reduced can be determined for example by the use of animal models for instance transgenic mice that have been exposed to solar simulated light or exposure to sunlight or using a model wherein an animal is exposed to a DNA alkylating agent. Solar simulated light is light having a spectral profile which is similar to natural solar irradiation e.g. the emission spectrum of a solar simulator looks similar to spectrum of a solar noon day. Wavelengths of light include about 295 400 nm so is inclusive of UVA and UVB but not UVC which does not penetrate the ozone layer of the atmosphere see for instance Yoon et al. 299 681 693 2000 . However the methods are of use with any initiating agent including agents known to cause cancer such as the carcinogens in tobacco smoke . In some embodiments the subject is at risk of exposure to an initiating agent due to an occupational exposure.

In another embodiment the presence of a tumor can be determined by methods known in the art and typically include cytological and morphological evaluation. The cells suspected of being cancerous can be in vivo or ex vivo including cells obtained from a biopsy.

The composition including 15 kD granulysin may be formulated in a variety of ways for administration to a subject to delay inhibit reduce the risk of developing or treat a tumor of interest. For example the composition can be formulated for application such that it inhibits metastasis of an initial lesion.

The 15 kD granulysin can be administered to slow or inhibit the growth of cells such as tumor cells or to inhibit the conversion of a benign lesion to a malignant one. In these applications a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin is administered to a subject in an amount sufficient to inhibit growth replication or metastasis of tumor cells or to inhibit an indication or a symptom of the tumor. In some embodiments 15 kD granulysin is administered to a subject to inhibit or prevent the development of metastasis or to decrease the number of micrometastases such as micrometastases to the regional lymph nodes Goto et al. 14 3401 3407 2008 .

Pharmaceutical compositions of 15 kD granulysin may also include an additional therapeutic agent for example an anti inflammatory agent a co stimulatory molecule a TLR agonist such as LPS a cytokine such as IL 4 a UV protectant or an additional chemotherapeutic agent. Contemplated herein are pharmaceutical compositions in which the 15 kD granulysin is co administered with the additional therapeutic agent. In one embodiment the 15 kD granulysin may be administered before after or during the administration of the additional therapeutic agent. In another example the 15 kD granulysin can be administered up to about 3 days prior to the administration of the additional therapeutic agent to prime the immune system thus providing a robust and sufficient immune response following administration of the additional therapeutic agent to treat ameliorate or delay the onset of the disease or disorder.

Pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of at least but not limited to the above conditions are thus provided for both local such as topical or inhalational use and for systemic such as oral or intravenous use. Therefore the disclosure includes within its scope pharmaceutical compositions formulated for use in human or veterinary medicine. While the composition will typically be used to treat human subjects it may also be used to treat similar or identical diseases in other vertebrates such as other primates dogs cats horses and cows. A suitable administration format may best be determined by a medical practitioner for each subject individually. Various pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and their formulation are described in standard formulation treatises e.g. The University of the Sciences in Philadelphia Editor Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 21Edition 2005 . See also Wang Y. J. and Hanson M. A. Technical Report No. 10 Supp. 42 2S 1988. Generally the dosage form of the pharmaceutical composition will be determined by the mode of administration chosen. Additional information about such pharmaceutical compositions is provided in Example 10.

The 15 kD granulysin can be co administered with a target antigen. In one embodiment the antigen may include a DNA vaccine. For example the DNA vaccine can be a Human Papilloma Virus HPV vaccine administered with or shortly after up to about 3 days administration of the 15 kD granulysin to treat or control infection by the virus. In another embodiment the target antigen is a tumor antigen such as prostate specific membrane antigen PSMA . PSMA expression is significantly elevated in carcinoma of the prostate particularly in metastastic disease and recurrent disease after hormone therapy androgen deprivation fails. These properties make PSMA an ideal target for anti cancer vaccines. In one example 15 kD granulysin can be administered simultaneously or up to about 3 days after administration of PMSA to the host. The co administration of PMSA and 15 kD granulysin permits priming of the immune system via differentiation of monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells which in turn enhance antigen presentation to na ve T cells. In addition the monocyte derived dendritic cells can be stimulated to secrete cytokines such as interferon and IL 12 particularly desirable in cancer immunotherapy.

In some embodiments the compositions disclosed are utilized in a prime boost regimen. An example of a prime boost regime may be found in Yang et al. 77 799 803 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference. In these embodiments the 15 kD granulysin is delivered to a subject thereby priming the immune response of the subject and then a second immunogenic composition such as a DNA vaccine is utilized as a boost vaccination. In one embodiment a priming composition and a boosting composition are combined into a single formulation. For example a single formulation may comprise 15 kD granulysin as the priming component and a vector expressing PMSA as the boosting component. In this example the compositions may be contained in a single vial where the two components are mixed together. In another embodiment the priming composition may be administered simultaneously with the boosting composition but in separate formulation where the priming and boosting compositions are separated.

The terms priming and boosting as used herein may refer to the initial and subsequent immunizations respectively e.g. in accordance with the definitions these terms normally have in immunology. However in certain embodiments e.g. where the priming component and boosting component are in a single formulation initial and subsequent immunizations may not be necessary as both the prime and the boost compositions are administered simultaneously.

In other examples the 15 kD granulysin is co administered with a target antigen in the form of a fusion protein. In some examples 15 kD granulysin is administered to a subject as a fusion protein with a tumor antigen such as a prostate tumor antigen for example PMSA or prostatic acid phosphatase PAP . Methods for making fusion proteins are well known to those skilled in the art. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 057 133 to Bauer et al. herein incorporated by reference discloses methods for making fusion molecules composed of human interleukin 3 hIL 3 variant or mutant proteins functionally joined to a second colony stimulating factor cytokine lymphokine interleukin hematopoietic growth factor or IL 3 variant. Similar methods can be used to generate fusion proteins including 15 kD granulysin linked to other amino acid sequences such as a target antigen for example PAP . Linker regions can be used to space the two portions of the protein from each other and to provide flexibility between them. The linker region is generally a polypeptide of between 1 and 500 amino acids in length for example less than 30 amino acids in length for example between 5 and 20 amino acids in length. The linker joining the two molecules can be designed to 1 allow the two molecules to fold and act independently of each other 2 not have a propensity for developing an ordered secondary structure which could interfere with the functional domains of the two proteins 3 have minimal hydrophobic or charged characteristic which could interact with the functional protein domains and 4 provide steric separation of the two regions. Typically surface amino acids in flexible protein regions include Gly Asn and Ser. Other neutral amino acids such as Thr and Ala can also be used in the linker sequence. Additional amino acids can be included in the linker due to the addition of unique restriction sites in the linker sequence to facilitate construction of the fusions. Other moieties can also be included as desired. These can include a binding region such as avidin or an epitope such as a polyhistadine tag which can be useful for purification and processing of the fusion protein. In addition detectable markers can be attached to the fusion protein so that the traffic of the fusion protein through a body or cell can be monitored conveniently. Such markers include radionuclides enzymes fluorophores and the like.

Fusing of a 15 kD granulysin nucleic acid sequence with a nucleic acid sequence encoding another protein can be accomplished by the use of intermediate vectors. Alternatively one gene can be cloned directly into a vector containing the other gene. Linkers and adapters can be used for joining the nucleic acid sequences as well as replacing lost sequences where a restriction site was internal to the region of interest. Genetic material DNA encoding one polypeptide peptide linker and the other polypeptide is inserted into a suitable expression vector which is used to transform prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells for example bacteria yeast insect cells or mammalian cells. The transformed organism is grown and the protein isolated by standard techniques for example by using a detectable marker such as nickel chelate affinity chromatography if a polyhistadine tag is used. The resulting product is therefore a new protein a fusion protein which includes 15 kD granulysin joined by a linker region to a second protein or a portion of a second protein such as a target antigen . To confirm that the fusion protein is expressed the purified protein is subjected to electrophoresis in SDS polyacrylamide gels and transferred onto nitrocellulose membrane filters using established methods. The protein products can be identified by Western blot analysis using antibodies directed against the individual components such as a polyhistadine tag and PA.

The nucleic acid sequence encoding a 15 kD granulysin fusion protein can be under the control of a suitable promoter. Suitable promoters include but are not limited to the gene s native promoter retroviral LTR promoter or adenoviral promoters such as the adenoviral major late promoter the CMV promoter the RSV promoter inducible promoters such as the MMTV promoter the metallothionein promoter heat shock promoters the albumin promoter the histone promoter the actin promoter TK promoters B19 parvovirus promoters and the ApoAI promoter.

In one embodiment a composition including 15 kD granulysin and an antigen are delivered to a subject by methods described herein thereby achieving an effective therapeutic and or an effective prophylactic immune response. Additional information about modes of administering 15 kD granulysin is provided in Example 11.

The therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin will be dependent on the subject being treated the severity and type of the condition and the manner of administration. For example a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can vary from about 0.01 g per kilogram kg body weight to about 1 g per kg body weight such as about 1 g to about 5 mg per kg body weight or about 5 g to about 1 mg per kg body weight. The exact dose is readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art based on the potency of the specific formulation the age weight sex and physiological condition of the subject.

A therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be administered with an antigen from which a subject requires protection. In one example the target antigen is a tumor antigen for example an oncofetal antigen e.g. carcinoembryonic antigen CEA alpha fetoprotein or an antigen from the MAGE family . In a specific non limiting example the tumor antigen can be a differentiation antigen for example a melanoma differentiation antigen e.g. MART 1 MAGE 1 MAGE 3 gp 100 or tyrosinase . In another embodiment the target antigen can be a vaccine such as a DNA vaccine e.g. HPV HBV or EBV vaccine . The amount of target antigen administered to the subject is dependent on a number of factors such as the condition being treated the severity of the condition route of administration and the anticipated duration of treatment. It will be apparent to one of skill in the art that the amount or concentration of antigen to be administered to the subject can be determined by conventional means by an attending physician or veterinarian.

In one embodiment for the inhibition and or treatment of melanoma a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be administered in conjunction with surgery and or with another therapeutic agent such as a chemotherapeutic agent e.g. 5 fluorouracil cisplatin paclitaxel doxorubicin or cyclophosphamide . In another specific non limiting example a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be used for the treatment of a tumor in conjunction with administration of a cytokine for example interleukin 4 IL 4 and a toll like receptor agonist for example lipopolysaccharide. In this example the cytokine and toll like receptor agonist can be administered prior to during or after administration of the 15 kD granulysin.

In another embodiment it is contemplated that a monocyte can be removed from a subject and that the monocyte can be primed and manipulated ex vivo to become a dendritic cell. The dendritic cell may be administered back into the subject as a method of directly increasing the number of dendritic cells in the subject. Alternatively the dendritic cell can be manipulated ex vivo by exposure to a target antigen. The target antigen will be processed by the dendritic cell and the antigen presenting dendritic cell can be re introduced into the subject thereby activating an immune response in the subject if the target antigen is present. As described herein the therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be administered with a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent such as a cytokine a chemokine a toll like receptor a chemotherapeutic agent an anti microbial agent an anti inflammatory agent such as a steroidal anti inflammatory agent or a non steroidal anti inflammatory agent or a combination thereof.

Monocytes are produced in the bone marrow from hematopoietic stem cells called monoblasts. Monocytes circulate in the blood vessels for about one to about three days and then typically move to tissues throughout the body. In response to inflammation stimuli monocytes migrate from the blood vessels to the site of infection or inflammation where with other cells and factors the monocytes can initiate an immune response.

According to one embodiment methods of producing dendritic cells from monocytes are disclosed. The method includes contacting a monocyte MO with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin thereby inducing differentiation of the monocyte into a monocyte derived dendritic cell MO DC . In one embodiment an additional agent that enhances dendritic cell maturation is administered in conjunction with 15 kD granulysin. In another example an additional dendritic cell maturation agent may be administered after the monocyte differentiation step has taken place. Specific non limiting examples of additional agents that enhance dendritic cell maturation include but are not limited to granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF macrophage colony stimulating factor M CSF flt 3 interleukin 4 IL 4 Toll Like Receptor TLR agonists such as polyriboinosinic polyribocytidylic acid poly I C lipopolysaccharide LPS Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha TNF CpG motif containing oligonucleotides imiquimod interleukin 6 IL 6 interleukin 13 IL 13 interleukin 7 IL 7 interferon alpha IFN heparan sulfate calcium ionophore or a combination of two or more thereof. In one embodiment the monocyte is contacted with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin in the presence of GM CSF and IL 4.

GM CSF as defined herein includes the gene product of the human GM CSF gene and naturally occurring or engineered variants thereof. The nucleotide and the amino acid sequence of the human GM CSF is found in Genbank Accession no. NM 000758 incorporated herein by reference as present in GenBank on Oct. 8 2010 . In addition some naturally occurring variants of GM CSF are listed in NM 000758. GM CSF is also known as colony stimulating factor 2 CSF2 and is anticipated as a form of GM CSF. The invention also includes the use of derivatives of GM CSF that retain the biological activity of wild type GM CSF e.g. that in the presence of 15 kD granulysin stimulate the differentiation of monocytes to monocyte derived dendritic cells. A derivative of GM CSF includes a fragment fusion or modification or analogue thereof or a fusion or modification of a fragment thereof. A fragment of GM CSF includes any portion of the glycoprotein that stimulates the production of monocyte derived dendritic cells in the presence of 15 kD granulysin. It is preferred that the fragment has at least 50 at least 70 or at least 90 of the activity of full length GM CSF. In another embodiment the fragment has 100 or more of the activity of full length GM CSF.

The invention also contemplates a fusion protein of full length GM CSF or a fragment thereof to another compound. In one embodiment the fusion protein retains at least 50 preferably at least 70 and more preferably at least 90 of the activity of full length GM CSF. In another embodiment the fusion protein retains at least 100 of the activity of full length GM CSF.

The derivatives as described above may be made using protein chemistry techniques for example by using partial proteolysis or de novo synthesis. Alternatively the derivatives may be made by recombinant DNA technology. Suitable techniques for cloning manipulation modification and expression of nucleic acids and purification of expressed proteins are well known in the art and are described for example in Sambrook et al 2001 3edition Sambrook et al eds Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. USA incorporated herein by reference.

The invention also includes modifications of full length GM CSF or a fragment thereof that stimulates the production of monocyte derived dendritic cells from their progenitor cells and which in the presence of 15 kD granulysin cause monocytes to differentiation into dendritic cells and express dendritic cell phenotype markers such as CD86 CD11c CD83 and HLA DR.

Modifications of full length GM CSF include deglycosylating the glycoprotein either fully or partially. Other modifications include a full length GM CSF or a fragment thereof having a different glycosylation pattern from that found in naturally occurring human GM CSF. Other modifications of full length GM CSF or a fragment thereof include amino acid insertions deletions and substitutions either conservative or non conservative at one or more positions. Such modifications may be called analogues of GM CSF. As defined herein conservative substitutions include combinations such as Gly Ala Val Ile Leu Asp Glu Asn Gln Ser Thr Lys Arg and Phe Tyr. Such modifications may be made using the methods of protein engineering and site directed mutagenesis as described in Sambrook et al.

GM CSF and analogues thereof are described in at least the following publications each of which is incorporated herein by reference to the extent that they describe GM CSF and its analogues U.S. Pat. No. 5 229 496 U.S. Pat. No. 5 391 485 U.S. Pat. No. 5 393 870 U.S. Pat. No. 5 602 007 Wong et al. 228 810 815 1985 Lee et al. 82 4360 4364 1985 and Cantrell et al. 82 6520 6254 1985 .

While it is preferred that GM CSF is human GM CSF GM CSF from other species can also be used. However it is anticipated that for application in which GM CSF is administered to a subject the GM CSF is preferably from the same species as the subject. Thus if the GM CSF is to be administered to a human subject the GM CSF is preferably human GM CSF.

In one embodiment GM CSF suitable for the practice of this invention is Sargramostim the proper name for yeast derived recombinant human GM CSF sold under the trade name Leukine marketed by Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Morristown N.J. . Leukine is a recombinant human GM CSF produced in expression system. Leukine is a glycoprotein of 127 amino acids characterized by 3 primary molecular species. The amino acid sequence of Leukine differs from human GM CSF by a substitution of leucine at position 23 and the carbohydrate moiety may be different from the native protein.

Typically to generate dendritic cells in vitro it is useful to purify monocytes and monocyte precursors from other contaminating cell types. This is commonly achieved through adherence of monocytes to a plastic polystyrene surface since monocytes have a greater tendency to adhere to plastic than other cell types found in peripheral blood. After substantially removing contaminant cells for example by vigorous washing the monocytes can be cultured with agents such as cytokines that differentiate monocytes into dendritic cells. For example Sallusto and Lanzavecchia 179 1109 1118 1994 disclose a method for differentiating a monocyte precursor into an immature dendritic cell.

It has been previously reported that the 9 kD form of granulysin activates monocytes to produce chemokines including MCP 1 and RANTES and cytokines such as IFN Krensky 59 317 320 2000 . One of skill in the art can readily identify without undue experimentation the concentration of cytokines required for use with 15 kD granulysin. In one specific non limiting example cytokines are present in a concentration of about 10 ng ml to about 100 ng ml depending on the specific cytokine or cytokine cocktail to be used. Without being bound by theory it is believed that agents such as GM CSF and or IL 4 act synergistically with 15 kD granulysin to enhance dendritic cell maturation.

In one embodiment a monocyte is contacted with 15 kD granulysin in vitro to differentiate the monocyte into a monocyte derived dendritic cell. To increase the number of monocyte cells in an animal including humans the subject can be treated with substances which stimulate hematopoiesis such as GM CSF or a CpG motif containing oligonucleotide. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 994 126 discloses methods for isolating dendritic cell precursors and methods for increasing the number of dendritic cell precursors in a sample. Additionally Krug et al. 170 3468 3477 2003 disclose methods for producing and isolating monocyte derived dendritic cells in culture upon incubation with CpG motif containing oligonucleotides.

Thus a monocyte can be contacted with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin for a sufficient period of time to differentiate into a dendritic cell in vitro. In one specific non limiting example peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures PBMCs are contacted with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin for a sufficient period of time to differentiate into mature dendritic cells in vitro. In one example a culture of isolated peripheral blood monocytes containing about 1 to about 4 10cells ml are treated with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin in vitro. In this example the concentration of 15 kD granulysin effective to induce maturation of the monocytes is about 1 nM to about 20 nM or is about 5 nM to about 15 nM or is about 10 nM. In one embodiment the culture is maintained for at least one day. In another embodiment the culture is maintained for about 2 days to about 14 days. In another embodiment the culture is maintained for about 3 days to about 6 days.

A method for inducing differentiation of monocytes in vitro in the presence of a target antigen is disclosed. The method includes contacting a monocyte with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin and a therapeutically effective amount of a target antigen thereby differentiating the monocyte into a monocyte derived dendritic cell expressing the antigen of interest in vitro. In this instance the monocyte can be contacted with the antigen of interest sequentially or simultaneously. The antigen can be any antigen including but not limited to a tumor antigen an antigen from a non infectious agent an allergen or an antigen of use in a vaccine. Thus in one embodiment a monocyte is contacted with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin to produce a dendritic cell. In other examples a monocyte is contacted with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin fused to an antigen such as a tumor antigen to produce a dendritic cell.

In a further embodiment the dendritic cell is contacted with a therapeutically effective amount of a target antigen to induce presentation of the antigen by the dendritic cell. Thus a mature antigen presenting cell APC is produced by this method.

Exemplary antigens include but are not limited to epitopes or antigens from tumors non infectious agents or allergens. These antigens may be composed of protein DNA RNA lipid sugar whole cell lysates apoptotic cells or any combination thereof. Some preferred antigens include soluble tumor protein antigens such as CEA MAGE 1 MART 1 tyrosinase tumor derived RNA unfractionated acid eluted peptides from the MHC class I molecules of tumor cells and recombinant purified or inactivated vaccine proteins. Antigens of interest further include polypeptides and other immunogenic biomolecules which can be produced by recombinant methods or isolated from natural sources. Complex antigens such as cell lysates inactivated e.g. heat killed viruses bacterial cells or fractions thereof are also of use.

Potential tumor antigens for immunotherapy include but are not limited to tumor specific antigens e.g. immunoglobulin idiotypes and T cell antigen receptors oncogenes such as p21 ras p53 p210 bcr abl fusion product developmental antigens e.g. MART 1 Melan A MAGE 1 MAGE 3 GAGE family telomerase viral antigens e.g. human papilloma virus Epstein Barr virus Hepatitis B virus tissue specific self antigens e.g. tyrosinase gp100 prostatic acid phosphatase prostate specific antigen PSMA thyroglobulin fetoprotein and over expressed self antigens e.g. her 2 neu carcinoembryonic antigen muc 1 and the like. Tumor cell derived protein extracts or RNA may be used as a source of antigen in order to provide multiple antigens and increase the probability of inducing immunity to more than one tumor associated antigen.

As an alternative to injecting the target antigen into the host endogenous tissue samples expressing the antigen can be used as an endogenous source of the antigen. For example tumor cells that express a tumor antigen maybe injected alone or in combination with a dendritic cell maturation agent to serve as the source of tumor antigen. Administration of an endogenous tumor antigen and dendritic cell maturation agent in vivo leads to the activation and differentiation of monocytes that migrate to the tumor site and can process the endogenous tumor antigen. The processed tumor antigen is expressed on the surface of monocyte derived dendritic cells that can interact with na ve T cells to produce an immune response against the target antigen.

It is to be appreciated that to induce tolerance to an antigen a derivative of the antigen may be administered to the subject and not the antigen itself. By derivative of an antigen it includes any portion of the antigen which can be presented by a class I or class II MHC molecule and which induces tolerance to the antigen itself.

When the antigen is a protein a derivative of the antigen is typically a peptide fragment of the antigen including a contiguous sequence of amino acids of the antigen capable of MHC binding. In one embodiment the antigen is a fragment between about 6 and about 100 amino acids in length. In another embodiment the antigen is a fragment between about 6 and about 50 amino acids in length. In yet another embodiment the antigen is a fragment that is 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 or 25 amino acids in length.

A derivative of the antigen may include a fusion of the antigen or a fusion of a fragment of the antigen to another compound and which can be recognized by either a class I or class II MHC molecule when presented on the monocyte derived dendritic cell. Unless the context indicates otherwise wherever the term antigen is used in the context of an antigen a derivative as herein defined is included.

The antigen can be delivered to the monocyte derived dendritic cell via any method known in the art including but not limited to pulsing the cells directly with the antigen or utilizing a broad variety of antigen delivery vehicles such as for example liposomes or other vectors known to deliver antigen to cells. In one specific non limiting example an antigenic formulation includes about 0.1 g to about 100 mg or about 10 g to about 10 mg of a selected antigen. An antigen preparation can also contain buffers excipients and preservatives amongst other ingredients.

In another embodiment a monocyte is contacted with 15 kD granulysin and an antigen to produce an antigen presenting differentiated dendritic cell. The cells are contacted with antigen for a time sufficient to allow the antigen to be internalized processed and presented by the monocyte derived dendritic cell. Accordingly the present invention also relates to methods for generating enriched populations of mature antigen presenting dendritic cells that can function to present antigen to T cells. In one specific non limiting example a monocyte is contacted with 15 kD granulysin and an antigen simultaneously. In one example the monocyte is contacted with a fusion protein including 15 kD granulysin and an antigen. In another embodiment the monocyte is contacted with a composition including 15 kD granulysin to produce a monocyte derived dendritic cell which is subsequently or simultaneously contacted with an antigen to generate a mature antigen presenting dendritic cell.

In one specific non limiting example monocyte derived dendritic cells are obtained in vitro by culturing monocytes with 15 kD granulysin for about 24 to about 48 hrs. In another specific non limiting example antigen presenting monocyte derived dendritic cells are obtained in vitro by culturing monocytes with 15 kD granulysin for about 48 to about 96 hours and then contacting the monocyte derived dendritic cells with an antigen for a time sufficient to allow the antigen to be internalized processed and presented by the monocyte derived dendritic cell thereby producing antigen presenting monocyte derived dendritic cells. In another example antigen presenting monocyte derived dendritic cells are obtained in vitro by culturing monocytes with a fusion protein including 15 kD granulysin and a target antigen for about 24 to about 72 hours. In another aspect the monocytes are contacted with 15 kD granulysin in vivo. In a further embodiment the antigen presenting monocyte derived dendritic cells are incubated with a dendritic cell maturation agent e.g. LPS thereby producing mature antigen presenting dendritic cells.

One of skill in the art can readily identify monocyte derived dendritic cells and antigen presenting dendritic cells. These techniques include but are not limited to analysis of cell morphology detection of specific antigens present on the cell surface of mature dendritic cells with for example monoclonal antibodies or assays for mixed lymphocyte reactions.

In one embodiment the presence of mature dendritic cells can be confirmed by antibodies specific for various mature dendritic cell surface markers such as CD83 CD40 CD86 and HLA DR. Typically labeled antibodies specifically directed to the marker are used to identify the cell population. The antibodies can be conjugated to other compounds including but not limited to enzymes magnetic beads colloidal magnetic beads haptens fluorochromes metal compounds radioactive compounds or drugs. The enzymes that can be conjugated to the antibodies include but are not limited to alkaline phosphatase peroxidase urease and galactosidase. The fluorochromes that can be conjugated to the antibodies include but are not limited to fluorescein isothiocyanate tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate phycoerythrin allophycocyanins and Texas Red. For additional fluorochromes that can be conjugated to antibodies see Haugland R. P. 1992 1994 . The metal compounds that can be conjugated to the antibodies include but are not limited to ferritin colloidal gold and particularly colloidal superparamagnetic beads.

Mature dendritic cells may also be identified histologically by assessing nuclear re organization vacuole formation cytoplasmic enlargement and membrane ruffling. In addition one of skill in the art can assess typical mature dendritic cell morphology including stellate shape and or well defined veils. For example one of ordinary skill in the art would associate the conversion of a monocyte into a dendritic cell with an increase in total cell size volume and an increase in cell granularity as can be determined by example by flow cytometry or Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting FACS .

Compositions including mature antigen presenting dendritic cells may be used as vaccines adjuvants to elicit or boost immune responses against antigens. For example activated antigen presenting monocyte derived dendritic cells can be used as vaccines to inhibit or prevent future infection or may be used to activate the immune system to treat ongoing diseases such as cancer. As disclosed herein it is believed that the expression level of 15 kD granulysin can be used as a correlate of effective immunity in monitoring vaccines and or that analogs of 15 kD granulysin can be used as therapeutic agents.

Accordingly the compositions disclosed herein are useful when used in conjunction with vaccines such as but not limited to those for treating chronic bacterial infections e.g. tuberculosis or chronic viral infections such as those associated with herpes simplex 1 virus herpes simplex 2 virus human herpes virus 6 measles virus rubella virus human immunodeficiency virus HIV human T cell leukemia virus I human T cell leukemia virus II varicella zoster virus hepatitis B virus hepatitis C virus hepatitis D virus human papilloma virus parvovirus B19 polyomavirus BK polyomavirus JC lentivirus adenovirus cytomegalovirus Epstein Barr virus and retrovirus.

Specifically a method of enhancing vaccine efficacy is disclosed. The method includes administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a vaccine and a monocyte derived dendritic cell produced by contacting a monocyte with an effective amount of 15 kD granulysin. In other aspect the method further comprises contacting the monocyte with an agent that enhances dendritic cell maturation. In a preferred embodiment the 15 kD granulysin is substantially free of 9 kD granulysin. In another embodiment the 15 kD granulysin consists essentially of 15 kD granulysin.

Mature dendritic cells produced by the methods disclosed can also be utilized to produce activated T lymphocytes. The methods disclosed include contacting a monocyte derived dendritic cell with a T lymphocyte in vitro thereby producing an activated T lymphocyte. Mature dendritic cells generated by the methods can be administered to a subject. Mature dendritic cells generated by contacting a monocyte with a composition including 15 kD granulysin in vitro can be administered to a subject to preferentially stimulate immune responses which block allergic responses e.g. interferon production . Thus the mature dendritic cells generated by 15 kD granulysin treatment may be administered to a subject for treating an allergic condition in that individual. The treatment of allergic conditions is based on the discovery that 15 kD granulysin may stimulate dendritic cells to produce anti allergic agents such as IFN which in turn increased the production of IFN by natural killer NK cells and T cells.

The mature dendritic cells generated by the methods described can be used for immunotherapy. In one embodiment the dendritic cells generated by the methods can also be used for tumor immunotherapy. In one embodiment the mature dendritic cells present a tumor antigen. These dendritic cells can be administered to a subject who has a tumor that expresses the tumor antigen. In another embodiment the mature dendritic cells expressing a target antigen are administered in conjunction with a chemotherapeutic agent.

In another embodiment mature dendritic cells produced by contacting a monocyte with 15 kD granulysin are administered to boost an immune response against another antigen. The granulysin and antigen can be administered together or sequentially but sufficiently close together for the granulysin to enhance an immune response against the antigen for example to enhance an allospecific T cell response against the antigen. In one specific non limiting example the antigen is from an infectious agent including but not limited to an antigen from a bacterium virus parasite or fungus. The dendritic cells can be from the same subject autologous or can be from a different individual heterologous .

A method is also disclosed for inducing the differentiation of monocytes in vivo. The method includes administering a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin to a subject thereby inducing differentiation of monocytes into differentiated dendritic cells in the subject. The subject can be a mammal such as a primate. In one specific non limiting example the subject is a human however veterinary use is contemplated.

As discussed above in one embodiment an agent that enhances dendritic cell maturation is administered in conjunction with 15 kD granulysin. Specific non limiting examples of agents that enhance dendritic cell maturation include IL 4 and GM CSF. In another embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin is administered in the absence of an agent that enhances dendritic cell maturation. In yet another embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin is administered to a subject in conjunction with a therapeutically effective amount of an antigen to produce an antigen presenting differentiated dendritic cell in the subject. In a further embodiment an antigen can be co administered with 15 kD granulysin for example in a liposome to trigger antigen uptake and maturation of dendritic cells in vivo and enhance antigen presentation by the dendritic cells to T cells in vivo. Thus antigen presentation and immunity can be significantly enhanced using the methods described herein. For example 15 kD granulysin and a target antigen may be co administered in solution or in a delivery vehicle such as a liposome which would facilitate delivery and uptake of 15 kD granulysin and antigen by the subject s monocytes.

In another embodiment compositions including 15 kD granulysin and monocytes may be used to treat a subject having cancer. As discussed above cancer treatments may be based upon the development of anti tumor vaccines including 15 kD granulysin and a tumor antigen or 15 kD granulysin and mature tumor antigen presenting dendritic cells. Without being bound by theory such vaccines not only elicit anti tumor antibody production but also activate natural killer cell lytic activity and antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC . Thus in the latter case administration of compositions including 15 kD granulysin and a target antigen stimulate production of tumor specific cytotoxic immune cells in vivo which actively target and kill the cancer cells.

In a further embodiment compositions including activated T cells can be produced in vitro by for example co culturing the mature antigen presenting dendritic cells prepared according to the invention with T cells in vitro. Such compositions are useful in adoptive immunotherapy such as for the production of antigen specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes or for generating antigen specific T helper cells.

As disclosed herein 15 kD granulysin can be used to generate mature dendritic cells in vivo. Thus in one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin is administered locally such as to a specific site in a subject in order to activate and expand monocytes at that site. In another embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin is administered systemically such as by intravenous intramuscular intradermal intraarterial parenteral or subcutaneous injection or by oral administration or inhalation to induce differentiation of monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells.

In one embodiment 15 kD granulysin is administered in a delivery complex. The delivery complex can include 15 kD granulysin and a targeting means. Any suitable targeting means can be used. For example 15 kD granulysin can be associated with e.g. ionically or covalently bound to or encapsulated within a targeting means e.g. a molecule that results in higher affinity binding to a target cell such as a B cell . A variety of coupling or cross linking agents can be used to form the delivery complex such as protein A carbodiamide and N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP . Examples of a delivery complex include a composition including 15 kD granulysin associated with a sterol e.g. cholesterol a lipid e.g. a cationic lipid virosome or liposome and a target cell specific binding agent e.g. a ligand recognized by target cell specific receptor . Without being bound by theory the complex is sufficiently stable in vivo to inhibit or prevent significant uncoupling prior to delivery to the target cell such as a tumor cell. In one embodiment the delivery complex is cleavable such that 15 kD granulysin is released in a functional form at the target cell.

In another embodiment 15 kD granulysin is administered in conjunction with a pharmacologically acceptable carrier. Pharmacologically acceptable carriers e.g. physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are well known in the art. A suitable pharmacological composition can be formulated to facilitate the use of 15 kD granulysin in vivo and or ex vivo. Such a composition can be suitable for delivery of the active ingredient to any suitable host such as a patient for medical application and can be manufactured in a manner that is itself known e.g. by means of conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making levigating emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes.

Pharmacological compositions for use can be formulated in a conventional manner using one or more pharmacologically e.g. physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable carriers including excipients as well as optional auxiliaries that facilitate processing of the active compounds into preparations which can be used pharmaceutically. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen and whether use will be an in vivo or an ex vivo use. For use in vivo administration can be either systemic or local. In addition one of skill in the art can readily select a suitable route of administration including but not limited to intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal transmucosal subcutaneous transdermal transnasal inhalation and oral administration.

Despite significant advances in understanding of tissue typing and immunosuppression and the availability of better immunosuppressive agents acute rejection remains a serious clinical problem in organ transplantation. In the absence of successful therapies organ rejection leads to graft failure in some patients for example requiring reinstitution of dialysis and the search for another donor kidney for renal transplant recipients.

The instant disclosure provides a method for detecting and or monitoring organ transplantation rejection in a transplant recipient including monitoring the level of 15 kD granulysin in a sample obtained from the transplant recipient wherein a significant increase in the level of 15 kD granulysin in the sample obtained from the transplant recipient for example as compared to an earlier or pre transplantation sample is associated with organ transplantation rejection.

Also disclosed is a method for inducing tolerance or inhibiting rejection of a cell tissue or organ transplant in a transplant recipient including administering to a mammalian transplant recipient a monocyte derived dendritic cell produced by exposing a monocyte to a composition including 15 kD granulysin and a pharmacological agent wherein the pharmacological agent is capable of inducing immunological tolerance in the monocyte derived dendritic cell and administering to the transplant recipient the immunologically tolerant monocyte derived dendritic cell thereby inhibiting rejection of the transplanted cell tissue or organ. Examples of the types of pharmacological agents that are capable of inducing immunological tolerance in a monocyte derived dendritic cell include but is not limited to cytokines such as GM CSF G CSF M CSF IL10 TGF IFN TNF Hepatocyte Growth Factor HGF IL 16 TPO IL 21 IL 10 or Thymic Stromal Lymphopoietin TSLP neuropeptides such as Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide VIP Vitamin D Receptors VDR agonists and Toll Like Receptor TLR agonists such as LPS .

GM CSF is known to induce murine semi mature IL 12 dendritic cells with high expression of MHC class II and co stimulatory molecules Gangi et al. 174 7006 7013 2005 . VIP is a neuropeptide released by immune cells in response to antigen stimulation and a potent anti inflammatory agent. M CSF and IL 4 can induce monocyte derived IL10 IL12tolerogenic dendritic cells Li et al. 174 4706 4717 2005 . G CSF indirectly favors the in vitro differentiation of peripheral blood monocytes to tolerogenic dendritic cells through the release of IL 10 and IFN Rutella et al. 34 1291 1302 2004 . HGF is known to skew monocyte differentiation toward IL 10 producing co stimulating tolerogenic dendritic cells Rutella et al. 108 1435 1440 2006 . TSLP is produced by epithelial cells of thymic Hassall s corpuscles. TSLP released thymic dendritic cells express CD80 CD86 and MHC class II and promote the conversion of thymocytes into regulatory T Treg cells Watanabe et al. 436 1181 1185 2005 .

Other examples of pharmacological agents that are capable of inducing immunological tolerance in monocyte derived dendritic cells can be found for example in Rutella et al. 108 1435 1440 2006 and Silk and Fairchild 14 344 350 2009 . In one example the methods further comprise administering to the mammalian transplant recipient at least one immunosuppressant or anti inflammatory drug.

Dendritic cells regulate immune responses that result in two opposite outcomes immunity or tolerance. The fine regulation of these two distinct functions is not completely understood. However it is presently believed that the net effect of antigen dose dendritic cell lineage and maturation status and dendritic cell stimulation by pathogen derived products and cytokine milieu at sites of inflammation determine whether an immunogenic or a tolerogenic T cell response will develop. Because dendritic cell based immunotherapy in autoimmune disease depends on tolerogenic dendritic cells discerning markers for tolerogenic dendritic cells is a significant objective. For example immature dendritic cells and IL 10 modified dendritic cells have been observed to mediate immune tolerance by inducing T cell anergy or T helper type 2 responses. A variety of pharmacological agents are known to induce tolerogenicity in dendritic cells in some examples the induction is attributed to the activity of individual cytokines or neuropeptides. Examples of the types of pharmacological agents that are capable of inducing immunological tolerance in a monocyte derived dendritic cell include GM CSF G CSF M CSF IL10 TGF IFN TNF HGF IL 16 TPO IL 21 IL 10 TSLP VIP VDR agonists and TLRs.

Autoimmune diseases comprise a large number of widely varying illnesses. Their common feature is the existence of an immune response in the subject against one or more self antigens including such wide ranging molecules as proteins DNA and carbohydrates. These diseases can cause symptoms ranging from mild discomfort to debilitation and death. Most of the autoimmune diseases remain enigmatic not only in their molecular basis but in their prediction progression and treatment. Autoimmune diseases include systemic lupus erythematosus Sjogren s syndrome rheumatoid arthritis juvenile onset diabetes mellitus Wegener s granulomatosis inflammatory bowel disease polymyositis dermatomyositis multiple endocrine failure Schmidt s syndrome autoimmune uveitis Addison s disease adrenalitis Graves disease thyroiditis Hashimoto s thyroiditis autoimmune thyroid disease pernicious anemia gastric atrophy chronic hepatitis lupoid hepatitis atherosclerosis presenile dementia demyelinating diseases multiple sclerosis subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus hypoparathyroidism Dressler s syndrome myasthenia gravis autoimmune thrombocytopenia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic anemia pemphigus vulgaris pemphigus dermatitis herpetiformis alopecia arcata pemphigoid scleroderma progressive systemic sclerosis CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s phenomenon esophageal dysmotility sclerodactyl and telangiectasia adult onset diabetes mellitus Type II diabetes male and female autoimmune infertility ankylosing spondylitis ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease mixed connective tissue disease polyarteritis nedosa systemic necrotizing vasculitis juvenile onset rheumatoid arthritis glomerulonephritis atopic dermatitis atopic rhinitis Goodpasture s syndrome Chagas disease sarcoidosis rheumatic fever asthma recurrent abortion anti phospholipid syndrome farmer s lung erythema multiforme post cardiotomy syndrome Cushing s syndrome autoimmune chronic active hepatitis bird fancier s lung allergic disease allergic encephalomyelitis toxic epidermal necrolysis alopecia Alport s syndrome alveolitis allergic alveolitis fibrosing alveolitis interstitial lung disease erythema nodosum pyoderma gangrenosum transfusion reaction leprosy malaria leishmaniasis trypanosomiasis Takayasu s arteritis polymyalgia rheumatica temporal arteritis schistosomiasis giant cell arteritis aspergillosis Sampter s syndrome eczema lymphomatoid granulomatosis Behcet s disease Caplan s syndrome Kawasaki s disease dengue encephalomyelitis endocarditis endomyocardial fibrosis endophthalmitis erythema elevatum et diutinum psoriasis erythroblastosis fetalis eosinophilic faciitis Shulman s syndrome Felty s syndrome filariasis cyclitis chronic cyclitis heterochronic cyclitis Fuch s cyclitis IgA nephropathy Henoch Schonlein purpura glomerulonephritis graft versus host disease transplantation rejection human immunodeficiency virus infection echovirus infection cardiomyopathy Alzheimer s disease parvovirus infection rubella virus infection post vaccination syndromes congenital rubella infection Hodgkin s and Non Hodgkin s lymphoma renal cell carcinoma multiple myeloma Eaton Lambert syndrome relapsing polychondritis malignant melanoma cryoglobulinemia Waldenstrom s macroglobulemia Epstein Barr virus infection rubulavirus and Evan s syndrome.

The present invention provides a method for treating the symptoms of an autoimmune disorder. Preferably the treatment occurs during the presymptomatic or preclinical stage of the autoimmune disorder and in some cases during the symptomatic stage of the disorder. Early treatment is preferable in order to reduce inhibit or prevent the loss of function associated with inflammatory tissue damage. The presymptomatic or preclinical stage will be defined as that period not later than when there is T cell involvement at the site of disorder e.g. islets of Langerhans synovial tissue thyroid gland but the loss of function is not yet severe enough to produce the clinical symptoms indicative of overt disease. T cell involvement may be evidenced by the presence of elevated numbers of T cells at the site of the disorder the presence of T cells specific for auto antigens the release of perforins and granzymes at the site of the disorder or as a response to immunosuppressive therapy.

For example degenerative joint diseases can be inflammatory as with seronegative spondylarthropathies e.g. ankylosing spondylitis and reactive arthritis rheumatoid arthritis gout and systemic lupus erythematosus. The degenerative joint diseases have a common feature in that the cartilage of the joint is eroded eventually exposing the bone surface. Destruction of cartilage begins with the degradation of proteoglycan mediated by enzymes such as stromelysin and collagenase resulting in the loss of the ability to resist compressive stress. Alterations in the expression of adhesion molecules such as CD44 ICAM 1 and extracellular matrix protein such as fibronectin and tenascin follow. Eventually fibrous collagens are attacked by metalloproteases leading to the loss of collagenous microskeleton. At this point repair by regeneration is no longer possible. There is significant immunological activity within the synovium during the course of inflammatory arthritis. While treatment during early stages is desirable the adverse symptoms of the autoimmune disorder may be at least partially alleviated by treatment such as the administration of 15 kD granulysin during later stages. Clinical indices for the severity of arthritis include pain swelling fatigue and morning stiffness and may be quantitatively monitored by Pannus criteria. Autoimmune disease progression in animal models can be followed by measurement of affected joint inflammation.

The present invention provides a composition and method of treating or inhibiting an immune based disease in vivo. In one embodiment a method for treating or ameliorating an autoimmune disease in a subject includes administering a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin in vivo to induce differentiation of monocytes in the subject into monocyte derived dendritic cells transforming the monocyte derived dendritic cells to tolerogenic dendritic cells by exposure in vivo to factors that promote tolerogenicity thereby treating the ongoing autoimmune disease and or inhibiting its future exacerbation. For example factors that promote tolerogenicity include but are not limited to neuropeptides such as vasoactive intestinal peptide and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide Silk and Fairchild 14 344 350 2009 cytokines such as G CSF IL 4 GM CSF and HGF Rutella et al. 108 1435 1140 2006 toll like receptors such as LPS Tryptophan Trp metabolites Brown et al. 1991 and Vitamin D Receptor VDR agonists Adorini and Penna 70 345 352 2009 .

In another embodiment a method for treating or ameliorating an autoimmune disease in a subject includes removing a monocyte from a subject with an autoimmune disease and treating the monocyte with 15 kD granulysin to induce differentiation of the monocyte to a monocyte derived dendritic cell transforming the monocyte derived dendritic cell to a tolerogenic dendritic cell by exposure in vitro to factors that promote tolerogenicity and re introducing the pre treated dendritic cell to the subject in order to treat the ongoing autoimmune disease and or inhibit its future exacerbation. In one example the methods further include administration of at least one immunosuppressant or anti inflammatory drug to the subject with the autoimmune disease.

In another embodiment a method of treating the symptoms of an autoimmune disease include contacting a monocyte with 15 kD granulysin and a target antigen associated with the autoimmune disease in vitro to produce a monocyte derived dendritic cell expressing the target antigen transforming the monocyte derived dendritic cell expressing the target antigen to a tolerogenic dendritic cell expressing the target antigen by exposure in vitro to factors that promote tolerogenicity and re introducing the pre treated dendritic cell expressing the target antigen to the subject in order to treat the symptoms of the autoimmune disease. In some instances the antigen of interest is a tumor antigen such as a lung colon or breast cancer antigen. In another embodiment the target antigen can be a vaccine such as a DNA vaccine e.g. HBV HPV or EBV vaccine . In a further embodiment the antigen of interest is an autoimmune disease antigen such as an arthritis induced antigen or a lupus associated antigen. In another embodiment the methods further include administering at least one immunosuppressant or anti inflammatory drug to the subject with the autoimmune disease. In a specific non limiting example the autoimmune disease is any one of the conditions described herein.

Granulysin 15 kD was found in cell culture studies to induce differentiation of monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells. The results are shown in . CD14 monocyte cells were isolated from human buffy coats using magnetic beads. Cells were plated at 2 10 ml in the presence of 15 kD granulysin 10 nM 9 kD granulysin 10 nM or cell culture medium for 48 hours. The cells were then analyzed for forward and side scatter by Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting FACS . shows the effect of treatment in the presence of 15 kD granulysin 10 nM . As noted in an increase in cell size x axis and an increase in cell granularity y axis was observed as would be expected following differentiation of monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells. In contrast the treatment with 9 kD granulysin did not result in an increase in cell size or cell granularity and was comparable to treatment with cell culture medium only and therefore suggests that 9 kD granulysin does not activate monocytes in vitro.

Dendritic cells can be distinguished from monocytes by their cell surface expression of several markers for example CD40 CD80 and CD83 Chapuis et al. 27 431 441 1997 Zhou and Tedder 154 3821 3835 1995 . Monocyte cells were prepared and isolated as described in Example 1 and were subjected to antibody staining for the following cell surface markers CD40 CD80 CD83 and CD209. The cells were then analyzed by FACS the results of which are presented in .

As described in Example 2 dendritic cells can be distinguished from monocytes by the expression of several cell surface markers for example CD83 CD40 and CD80. In this example cell culture studies demonstrated that treatment of human CD14 monocytes with 15 kD granulysin 10 nM and IL 4 10 ng ml can expeditiously differentiate monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells. The results are shown in .

CD14 human monocyte cells were isolated from human buffy coats using magnetic beads as disclosed in Example 1. Cells were plated at 2 10 ml in the presence of 15 kD granulysin 10 nM and in the presence or absence of human IL 4 10 ng ml for 5 days. After 5 days 10 ng ml of the toll like receptor agonist lipopolysachharide LPS was added and the cells were further incubated for an additional 48 hours. The cells were stained with fluorescent antibodies and analyzed by FACS.

Cell culture studies on the ability of 15 kD granulysin and IL 4 to act as an immunoactivating composition were studied using conventional methods known in the art. In this example 15 kD granulysin and IL 4 were co administered to stimulate differentiation of monocytes.

It is known that monocytes incubated with GM CSF and IL 4 in vitro result in the production of dendritic cells Sallusto and Lanzavecchia 179 1109 1118 1994 . This combination protocol utilizing GM CSF and IL 4 is currently the standard vaccine adjuvant protocol as used by the National Institute of Health NIH Bethesda USA and has been used in clinical studies as a vaccine adjuvant for sometime Belardelli et al. 34 3827 3830 2004 . Surprisingly it was found by the inventors that 15 kD granulysin can be effectively substituted for GM CSF in the above vaccine adjuvant protocol to provide a therapeutically effective and efficient vaccine adjuvant. Overall the inventors determined that GM CSF can be readily substituted by 15 kD granulysin in the vaccination protocol to achieve the same diagnostic and therapeutic effect.

Table 1 shows the results of cell culture studies CD14 monocytes incubated for 4 days with various compositions stained with fluorescent antibodies and analyzed by FACS analysis. In this example GM CSF and IL 4 were used at a concentration of 10 g ml. Monocyte cells were isolated and treated as described in Example 1 and subjected to staining and analysis by FACS for the following cell surface markers CD11b CD14 CD40 CD80 CD83 CD86 CD209 and HLA DR. It was observed that the percentage positive cells was significantly elevated in monocyte cells treated with 15 kD granulysin and IL 4 as compared to the control sample cell culture medium only or IL 4 treatment. Importantly it was also observed that the percentage positive cells for cell surface markers CD14 CD83 and CD209 upon incubation with 15 kD granulysin and IL 4 treatment were comparable to the percentage positive cells for the cell surface markers CD14 CD83 and CD209 when incubated with GM CSF and IL 4.

Table 1 also shows that monocytes incubated with 15 kD granulysin and IL 4 had a slightly elevated percentage of positive cells for CD86 as compared to the percentage positive cells after incubation with GM CSF and IL 4. From this in vitro data it is apparent that the expression of cell surface markers associated with dendritic cells is significantly elevated when monocytes are incubated with 15 kD granulysin and IL 4. It is also apparent from the above results that an immune response can be stimulated following incubation of monocytes with 15 kD granulysin and that this immune response is heightened upon co incubation with a cytokine such as IL 4 and a toll like receptor such as lipopolysaccharide.

In this example a subject in need of an enhanced immune response to an antigen for example a tumor antigen is intravenously or subcutaneously infused following completion of chemotherapy with a dendritic cell maturation agent for example 250 g m day Leukine a commercially available form of a yeast expressed recombinant GM CSF as described in the Leukine package insert Bayer Health Care Pharmaceuticals 2007 . The subject is simultaneously or within four days of the Leukineinfusion intravenously administered 10 mg kg of 15 kD granulysin. The administration of 15 kD granulysin and a dendritic cell maturation agent is sufficient to stimulate an immune response against the tumor antigen present in the subject.

In this example monocytes are removed from a subject for example a subject suffering from an autoimmune disease e.g. Sjogrens Syndrome or autoimmune pancreatitis. The monocytes are manipulated for example as described in Example 1 to remove non monocyte cells from the sample. The isolated and purified monocytes are incubated with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin and optionally a therapeutically effective amount of a target antigen associated with the autoimmune disease by which the subject is affected for example carbonic anhydrase isozyme IV CA IV for a sufficient amount of time to differentiate the isolated monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells and optionally a therapeutically effective amount of a dendritic cell maturation agent . The monocyte derived dendritic cells are further incubated in vitro with an effective amount of a pharmacological agent capable of transforming the monocyte derived dendritic cells to tolerogenic dendritic cells such as TNF . The resulting tolerogenic dendritic cells are re introduced to the subject with the autoimmune disease in an amount sufficient to treat the symptoms of the autoimmune disease.

In this example monocytes are removed from a subject for example a subject who is selected to undergo organ transplantation e.g. kidney transplantation. The monocytes are manipulated for example as described in Example 1 to remove non monocyte cells from the sample. The isolated and purified monocytes are incubated with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin for a sufficient amount of time to differentiate the isolated monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells and optionally a therapeutically effective amount of a dendritic cell maturation agent . The monocyte derived dendritic cells are further incubated in vitro with a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmacological agent capable of transforming the monocyte derived dendritic cells into tolerogenic dendritic cells such as the neuropeptide vasoactive intestinal peptide VIP . The resulting tolerogenic dendritic cells are re introduced to the subject in an amount sufficient to induce immunological tolerance to the transplanted organ.

In this example monocytes are removed from a subject for example a subject diagnosed with or who is at risk from developing a tumor e.g. melanoma. The monocytes are manipulated for example as described in Example 1 to remove non monocyte cells from the sample. The isolated and purified monocytes are incubated with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin and optionally a therapeutically effective amount of a target antigen associated with the tumor the subject has or is at risk of developing for example MART 1 MAGE 1 or MAGE 3 for a sufficient amount of time to differentiate the isolated monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells. Optionally the monocyte derived dendritic cells are incubated with one or more dendritic cell maturation agents for example IL 4 and or LPS. The monocyte derived dendritic cells are re introduced to the subject in an amount sufficient to treat or provide a prophylactic response to the tumor.

In this example monocytes are removed from a subject for example a subject diagnosed with an allergy e.g. dust mite hypersensitivity. The monocytes are manipulated for example as described in Example 1 to remove non monocyte cells from the sample. The isolated and purified monocytes are incubated with a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin and optionally a therapeutically effective amount of a target antigen associated with the allergy for example Dp for a sufficient amount of time to differentiate the isolated monocytes into monocyte derived dendritic cells expressing the target antigen. Optionally the monocyte derived dendritic cells expressing the target antigen are incubated with one or more dendritic cell maturation agents for example IL 4 and or LPS. The monocyte derived dendritic cells expressing the target antigen are re introduced to the subject in an amount sufficient to treat or provide a prophylactic response to the allergen.

Incubation of human CD14 monocytes with GM CSF in the presence or absence of IL 4 was found to induce a robust expression of CD1a on the cell surface of the monocytes. However administration of 15 kD granulysin was found not to activate expression of CD1a on the surface of monocytes. Monocyte cells were prepared and isolated as described in Example 1. Human CD14 monocytes were incubated with 15 kD granulysin 10 nM or GM CSF 10 ng ml in the presence or absence of IL 4 10 ng ml and incubated for 5 days cells were subjected to staining for the cell surface marker CD1a. The cells were analyzed by FACS the results of which are presented in and .

Human CD14 monocytes incubated in the presence of 15 kD were observed to undergo significant up regulation and or expression of TNF IL 1 and IL 6 in vitro. Monocyte cells were prepared and isolated as described in Example 1. Human CD14 monocytes were incubated in cell culture in the presence of 15 kD granulysin 10 nM or in the presence of 15 kD granulysin 10 nM and pertussis toxin 100 ng ml . The cells were incubated at 37 C. for 4 hours after which the cells were collected centrifuged and mRNA obtained. The mRNA obtained from the cultured monocytes was converted to cDNA and quantitative PCR was performed that allowed for the calculation of fold increase in expression of IL 6 IL 1 or TNF relative to a house keeping gene glucuronidase GUS . are graphs reporting the fold increase in cytokine expression of IL 6 IL 1 or TNF upon administration of 15 kD granulysin 10 nM to monocytes in vitro in the presence or absence of an antigen pertussis toxin . From the data provided in it was concluded that 15 kD granulysin up regulates cytokine expression of monocytes in vitro even in the absence of a target antigen.

CD14 human monocyte cells were isolated from human buffy coats using magnetic beads as disclosed in Example 1. Cells were plated at 2 10 ml in the presence of 15 kD granulysin 10 nM or in the presence of GM CSF 10 ng ml and incubated for 4 days. After 4 days 100 ng ml of the toll like receptor agonist lipopolysachharide LPS was added to the cells to induce dendritic cell maturation and the cells were further incubated for an additional two days. On day 6 the cells were harvested and used to stimulate allogeneic T cells. After five additional days cellular proliferation was measured and reported as fold stimulation above T cells alone the results of which are presented in . The four upper rows of represent monocytes activated upon incubation with GM CSF 10 ng ml or GM CSF and IL 4 10 ng ml . The four lower rows of demonstrate fold stimulation of allospecific T cells upon incubation of human CD14 monocytes with 15 kD granulysin 10 nM or 15 kD granulysin and IL 4 10 ng ml . The data from demonstrates that 15 kD granulysin 10 nM was sufficient to induce a robust stimulation of allogeneic T cells in vitro. Furthermore the fold stimulation of allogeneic T cells produced as a result of incubation with 15 kD granulysin alone as compared to the level of fold stimulation induced by GM CSF alone was significantly higher. In contrast the level of fold stimulation of allogeneic T cells upon incubation with 15 kD granulysin and IL 4 was substantially reduced as compared to the fold stimulation effects of 15 kD granulysin alone. Overall the effect of LPS in these test experiments resulted in an observed decrease of fold stimulation in allogeneic T cells as compared to the corresponding LPS free cultures.

Many characteristics of 9 kD granulysin are known in the art including its chemoattractant property. To determine if 15 kD granulysin possesses chemotactic potential particularly with respect to monocytes the following experiment was performed. Monocytes are cells of the immune system and in response to inflammatory move to the site of infection where they can divide into dendritic cells or macrophages. The presence of monocytes at the site of infection might be a direct consequence of the properties of 15 kD granulysin in response to inflammation or is perhaps a mechanism by which a shift in the dual production pathway of macrophages and dendritic cells is converted into a predominantly single pathway e.g. the production of dendritic cells.

CD14 human monocyte cells were isolated from human buffy coats using magnetic beads as disclosed in Example 1. Human CD14 monocytes were cultured for 6 hours at 37 C. in cell culture medium alone or in cell culture medium supplemented with 15 kD granulysin 10 nM . After 6 hours cells were visualized using 60 magnification. Monocytes incubated solely in the presence of cell culture medium were dispersed randomly across the visual field and were not observed to aggregate. In contrast the monocytes incubated in cell culture medium supplemented with 15 kD granulysin were observed to form significant cell clusters.

In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin is formulated for administration to the skin. Formulations suitable for topical administration can include dusting powders ointments creams gels sprays or transdermal patches for the administration of 15 kD granulysin to cells such as skin cells. Topical formulations may be administered to blisters or lesions present on the skin such as leprosy lesions and blisters. In one example the 15 kD granulysin is administered to the skin for the treatment of melanoma. Alternatively the 15 kD granulysin is co administered with a vaccine for example an Alzheimer s vaccine to a host in the form of a transdermal patch. While not wishing to be bound by the following it is believed that the vaccine and 15 kD granulysin work in combination to activate and or up regulate the immune system of the host to recognize a target antigen such as beta amyloid protein A which abnormally accumulates in the brains of Alzheimer s patients. Activation of the subject s immune response following recognition of the target antigen allows the immune system to recognize and inactivate the antigen thereby reducing or treating the pathology.

The pharmaceutical formulations may optionally include an inorganic pigment organic pigment inorganic powder organic powder hydrocarbon silicone ester triglyceride lanolin wax cere animal or vegetable oil surfactant polyhydric alcohol sugar vitamin amino acid antioxidant free radical scavenger ultraviolet light blocker sunscreen agents preservative fragrance thickener or a combination thereof.

In one example 15 kD granulysin can be used in cosmetic formulations e.g. skincare cream sunscreen decorative make up products and other dermatological compositions in various pharmaceutical dosage forms and in the form of oil in water or water in oil emulsions solutions gels or vesicular dispersions. The cosmetic formulations may take the form of a cream which can be applied either to the face or to the scalp and hair as well as to the human body in particular those portions of the body that are chronically exposed to sun or an environmental carcinogen. The cosmetic formulation can also serve as a base for a lip gloss or lipstick.

In some cosmetic formulations additives can be included such as for example preservatives bactericides perfumes antifoams dyes pigments which have a coloring action surfactants thickeners suspending agents fillers moisturizers humectants fats oils waxes or other customary constituents of a cosmetic formulation such as alcohols polyols polymers foam stabilizers electrolytes organic solvents or silicone derivatives.

Cosmetic formulations typically include a lipid phase and often an aqueous phase. The lipid phase can be chosen from the following group of substances mineral oils mineral waxes such as triglycerides of capric or of caprylic acid castor oil fats waxes and other natural and synthetic fatty substances esters of fatty acids with alcohols of low C number for example with isopropanol propylene glycol or glycerol or esters of fatty alcohols with alkanoic acids of low C number or with fatty acids alkyl benzoates silicone oils such as dimethylpolysiloxanes diethylpolysiloxanes diphenylpolysiloxanes and mixed forms thereof.

If appropriate the aqueous phase of the formulations according to the present disclosure include alcohols diols or polyols of low C number and ethers thereof such as ethanol isopropanol propylene glycol glycerol ethylene glycol ethylene glycol monoethyl or monobutyl ether propylene glycol monomethyl monoethyl or monobutyl ether diethylene glycol monomethyl or monoethyl ether and analogous products furthermore alcohols of low C number for example ethanol isopropanol 1 2 propanediol and glycerol and in particular one or more thickeners such as silicon dioxide aluminum silicates polysaccharides and derivatives thereof for example hyaluronic acid xanthan gum and hydroxypropylmethylcellulose or poly acrylates.

An exemplary 15 kD granulysin cosmetic formulation is as an additive to a sunscreen composition as a lotion spray or gel for administration to the skin. A sunscreen can additionally include at least one further UVA filter and or at least one further UVB filter and or at least one inorganic pigment such as an inorganic micropigment. The UVB filters can be oil soluble or water soluble. Oil soluble UVB filter substances can include for example 3 benzylidenecamphor derivatives such as 3 4 methylbenzylidene camphor and 3 benzylidenecamphor 4 aminobenzoic acid derivatives such as 2 ethylhexyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate and amyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate esters of cinnamic acid such as 2 ethylhexyl 4 methoxycinnamate and isopentyl 4 methoxycinnamate derivatives of benzophenone such as 2 hydroxy 4 methoxybenzophenone 2 hydroxy 4 methoxy 4 methylbenzophenone and 2 2 dihydroxy 4 methoxybenzophenone esters of benzalmalonic acid such as di 2 ethylhexyl 4 methoxybenzalmalonate. Water soluble UVB filter substances can include the following salts of 2 phenylbenzimidazole 5 sulphonic acid such as its sodium potassium or its triethanolammonium salt and the sulphonic acid itself sulphonic acid derivatives of benzophenones such as 2 hydroxy 4 methoxybenzophenone 5 sulphonic acid and salts thereof sulphonic acid derivatives of 3 benzylidenecamphor such as for example 4 2 oxo 3 bornylidenemethyl benzenesulphonic acid 2 methyl 5 2 oxo 3 bornylidenemethyl benzenesulphonic acid and salts thereof. The list of further UVB filters mentioned which can be used in combination with 15 kD granulysin according to the disclosure is not intended to be limiting.

For treatment of the skin a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be locally administered to an affected area of the skin such as in the form of an ointment. In one embodiment the ointment is an entirely homogenous semi solid external agent with firmness appropriate for easy application to the skin. The ointment can include fats fatty oils lanoline Vaseline paraffin wax hard ointments resins plastics glycols higher alcohols glycerol water emulsifier or a suspending agent. Using these ingredients as a base a decoy compound can be evenly mixed. Depending on the base the mixture can be in the form of an oleaginous ointment an emulsified ointment or a water soluble ointment. Oleaginous ointments use bases such as plant and animal oils and fats wax Vaseline and liquid paraffin. Emulsified ointments are comprised of an oleaginous substance and water emulsified with an emulsifier. They can take either an oil in water form O W or a water in oil form W O . The oil in water form O W can be a hydrophilic ointment. The water in oil form W O initially lacks an aqueous phase and can include hydrophilic Vaseline and purified lanoline or it can contain a water absorption ointment including an aqueous phase and hydrated lanoline. A water soluble ointment can contain a completely water soluble Macrogol base as its main ingredient. Alternatively the 15 kD granulysin can be administered as a transdermal patch that can deliver sustained therapeutic levels of 15 kD granulysin through the skin in a convenient painless manner for example using the PassPort Transdermal System developed by Altea Therapeutics Atlanta Ga. . In a further embodiment the 15 kD granulysin transdermal patch may include one or more therapeutic compounds for example a vaccine a drug such as a chemotherapeutic drug an anti inflammatory compound or other therapeutic agent.

In other embodiments the 15 kD granulysin can be formulated in an aqueous solution preferably in a physiologically compatible buffer. For transmucosal administration penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art. For oral administration 15 kD granulysin can be combined with carriers suitable for inclusion into tablets pills dragees capsules caplets liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like. The 15 kD granulysin can also be formulated for use in inhalation therapy. For administration by inhalation 15 kD granulysin is conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant. The 15 kD granulysin can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Similarly a composition including 15 kD granulysin can be formulated for intratracheal or for inhalation administration. Such compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Other pharmacological excipients are known in the art.

In one embodiment 15 kD granulysin is applied with or as part of a composition including a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient including combinations thereof . The carrier diluent or excipient must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the composition of the invention and not deleterious to the recipient thereof. Typically the carriers will be water or saline which will be sterile and pyrogen free. Acceptable carriers or diluents for therapeutic use are well known in the pharmaceutical art and are described for example in The University of the Sciences in Philadelphia Editor Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 21Edition 2005 . The choice of pharmaceutical carrier excipient or diluent can be selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. The pharmaceutical composition may comprise as or in addition to the carrier excipient or diluent any suitable binder lubricant suspending agent coating agent solubilizing agent or combinations thereof.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include a petroleum jelly such as VASELINE wherein the petroleum jelly contains 5 stearyl alcohol or petroleum jelly alone or petroleum jelly containing liquid paraffin. Such carriers enable pharmaceutical compositions to be prescribed in forms appropriate for consumption such as tablets pills sugar coated agents capsules liquid preparations caplets gels ointments syrups slurries and suspensions. When locally administered to cells in an affected area or tissue of interest the 15 kD granulysin composition can be administered in a formulation that contains a synthetic or natural hydrophilic polymer as the carrier. Examples of such polymers include hydroxypropyl cellulose and polyethylene glycol. The composition can be mixed with a hydrophilic polymer in an appropriate solvent. The solvent is then removed by methods such as air drying and the remainder is then shaped into a desired form for example a sheet and applied to the target site. Formulations containing such hydrophilic polymers keep well as they have a low water content. At the time of use the formulation absorbs water becoming a gel that also stores well. In the case of sheets the firmness can be adjusted by mixing a polyhydric alcohol with a hydrophilic polymer similar to those above such as cellulose starch and its derivatives or synthetic polymeric compounds. Accordingly a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be incorporated into bandages plasters transdermal patches or other wound dressings.

According to the disclosed methods compositions of the present invention can be administered by but not limited to intramuscular i.m. intravenously i.v. subcutaneous s.c. or intrapulmonary routes. Transdermal delivery includes but is not limited to intradermal e.g. into the dermis or epidermis transdermal e.g. percutaneous and transmucosal administration e.g. into or through skin or mucosal tissue . Intracavity administration includes oral nasal peritoneal rectal vaginal or intestinal cavities as well as intrathecal intraventricular intraarterial and sub arachnoid administration.

Any mode of administration is contemplated so long as the mode results in the activation of an immune response to the target antigen in the desired tissue in an amount sufficient to generate a therapeutically or prophylactically effective immune response against the target antigen.

Determining an effective amount of the composition depends on a number of factors including for example the antigen being expressed or administered directly the age and weight of the subject the precise condition requiring treatment the severity of the condition and the route of administration. Based on the above factors determining the precise amount number of doses and timing of doses are within the ordinary skill in the art and will be readily determined by the attending physician or veterinarian.

The 15 kD granulysin can be formulated for administration by inhalation such as but not limited to formulations for the treatment of lung or esophageal cancer. Inhalational preparations include aerosols particulates and the like. In general the goal for particle size for inhalation is about 1 m or less in order that the composition reaches the alveolar region of the lung for absorption. However the particle size can be modified to adjust the region of disposition in the lung. Thus larger particles can be utilized such as about 1 to about 5 m in diameter to achieve deposition in the respiratory bronchioles and air spaces. In addition oral formulations may be liquid e.g. syrups solutions or suspensions or solid e.g. powders pills tablets caplets or capsules .

For administration by inhalation the compositions can be conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit can be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges for use in an inhaler or insufflator can be formulated containing a powder mix of the composition and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

When 15 kD granulysin is provided as a parenteral composition e.g. for injection or infusion it is generally suspended in an aqueous carrier for example as an isotonic buffer solution at a pH of about 3.0 to about 8.0 preferably at a pH of about 3.5 to about 7.4 more preferably at about 3.5 to about 6.0 or most preferably between about 3.5 and about 5.0. Useful buffers include sodium citrate citric acid and sodium phosphate phosphoric acid and sodium acetate acetic acid buffers. A form of repository or depot slow release preparations may also be used so that therapeutically effective amounts of 15 kD granulysin are delivered into the blood vessels over many hours or days following transdermal administration or delivery.

The 15 kD granulysin composition can be administered as a sustained release system for example of sustained release compositions including suitable polymeric materials such as for example semi permeable polymer matrices in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or mirocapsules suitable hydrophobic materials such as for example an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins and sparingly soluble derivatives such as for example a sparingly soluble salt . Sustained release compositions as described herein may be administered orally rectally parenterally intravaginally intraperitoneally topically as by powders ointments gels drops or transdermal patch bucally or as an oral or nasal spray.

Preparations for administration can be suitably formulated to give controlled release of 15 kD granulysin over an extended period of time. For example the pharmaceutical composition may be in the form of particles including a biodegradable polymer and or a polysaccharide jellifying and or bioadhesive polymer an amphiphilic polymer an agent modifying the interface properties of the particles and a pharmacologically active substance. These compositions exhibit certain biocompatibility features which allow a controlled release of an active ingredient as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 486.

For oral administration the pharmaceutical composition including 15 kD granulysin can take the form of for example tablets or capsules prepared by conventional means with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as binding agents for example pregelatinized maize starch polyvinylpyrrolidone or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose fillers for example lactose microcrystalline cellulose or calcium hydrogen phosphate lubricants for example magnesium stearate talc or silica disintegrants for example potato starch or sodium starch glycolate or wetting agents for example sodium lauryl sulfate . The tablets can be coated by methods well known in the art. In some instances the disclosed compositions may be microencapsulated e.g. poly DL lactide coglycolide to reduce or prevent significant degradation of the composition prior to reaching the small intestine. Indeed oral immunization with antigen incorporated in microparticles has been demonstrated to induce systemic and secretory antibody responses Eldridge et al. 146 59 66 1989 Challacombe et al. 76 164 168 1992 . Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and excipient useful in this invention are conventional. For instance parenteral formulations usually comprise injectable fluids that are pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable such as water physiological saline other balanced salt solutions aqueous dextrose glycerol or the like. If desired the pharmaceutical composition may also contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents preservatives pH buffering agents and the like for example sodium acetate or sorbitan monolaurate. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

Generally the formulations are prepared by contacting 15 kD granulysin uniformly and intimately with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both. Then if necessary the product is shaped into the desired formulation. Optionally the carrier is a parenteral carrier and in some embodiments it is a solution that is isotonic with the blood of the recipient. Examples of such carrier vehicles include water saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. Non aqueous vehicles such as fixed oils and ethyl oleate are also useful herein as well as liposomes. Compositions of the present invention may include various excipients carriers and or delivery vehicles as are disclosed e.g. in U.S. Patent Application No. 2002 0019358 published Feb. 14 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference to the extent it discloses such compositions.

The 15 kD granulysin pharmaceutical composition can be formulated in unit dosage forms suitable for individual administration of precise dosages. The amount administered will be dependent on the subject being treated the severity of the condition or disorder and the manner of administration and is best left to the judgment of the prescribing clinician. Within these bounds the formulation to be administered will contain a quantity of 15 kD granulysin in an amount effective to achieve the desired effect in the subject being treated. In some incidences multiple treatments are envisioned such as over a defined interval of time for example as daily bi weekly weekly bi monthly or monthly administration such that chronic administration is achieved. As disclosed herein a therapeutically effective amount of 15 kD granulysin can be used to inhibit the formation of a tumor treat a tumor inhibit conversion of a benign tumor to a malignant tumor decrease the risk of developing a tumor or inhibit metastasis. Administration of the 15 kD granulysin composition may begin whenever the suppression or inhibition of disease is desired for example at a certain age of a subject or prior to an environmental exposure.

A cDNA clone of 15 kD granulysin was generated from human peripheral blood and cloned into pet28A expression vector. A baculovirus GP67 secretion leader was engineered at the 5 end of the granulysin gene by adapter PCR. The verified clone was subcloned by Gateway LR recombination Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. into pDest 670 for insect cell expression. The expression clone was then transformed in to DH10Bac Invitrogen and plated on LB medium containing kanamycin gentamycin tetracycline X gal and IPTG as per manufacturer s protocols. The bacmid DNA was verified by PCR amplification across the bacmid junctions and transfected into SF 9 insect cells to create the recombinant baculovirus. Large scale expression was done using Hi5 insect cells grown in 3 L Erlenmeyer flasks. Cells were infected at a multiplicity of infection of three maintained at 27 C. for 4 hours then shifted to 21 C. and allowed to grow for 48 hours. Cells were spun out and the supernatant containing the secreted 15 kD granulysin was filtered using a 0.45 M filter and stored at 20 C. This material was applied to a 5 ml HiTrap Heparin HP GE Health Care Uppsala Sweden . Fractions containing the 15 kD granulysin were pooled buffer exchanged and run on a 1 ml Resource S column GE Health Care . The purified protein was concentrated and stored at 80 C. Finn et al. 10.1016 j.pep.2010.07.009 2010.

Elutriated human monocytes were cultured at 2 10cells ml in 24 well plates in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 heat inactivated FBS Hyclone Ogden Utah 2 mM L glutamine and 100 U ml penicillin streptomycin complete medium . 15 kD granulysin 10 nM GM CSF 10 ng ml and IL 4 10 ng ml were added as described. Cells were stained with the following antibodies from BD Bioscience San Diego Calif. CD86 clone FUN 1 and CD83 HB15e as fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC conjugates CD14 M5E2 CD80 L307.4 and CD209 DCN46 as phycoerythrin PE conjugates CD11c Bly6 CD11b ICRF44 CD40 5C3 and CD1a HI149 as APC conjugates and from eBiosciences San Diego Calif. CD1c L161 FITC conjugate and HLA DR L243 as PE conjugates. In some cases cells were then fixed and permeabilized using BD Cytofix Cytoperm and then stained with antibodies specific for IL 6 MQ2 6A3 PE conjugate TNF MAb11 AF488 conjugate interferon B27 PeCy7 conjugate all from BD Biosciences or IL1 CRM56 FITC conjugate from eBiosciences. Flow cytometry data was analyzed with FlowJo analysis software Tree Star Ashland Oreg. .

Using elutriated CD14 monocytes the effects of 15 kD granulysin and GM CSF a well characterized activator of monocytes were compared . Within 6 hours monocytes cultured with 10 nM 15 kD granulysin but not with 10 ng ml GM CSF formed aggregates . Both 15 kD granulysin and GM CSF caused an increase in cell size and upregulation of adhesion molecules including CD11b CD11c and CD54 as well as molecules associated with differentiation to immature dendritic cells including CD40 CD80 CD86 and HLA DR . 15 kD granulysin but not GM CSF promoted increased expression of CD83 while GM CSF but not 15 kD granulysin caused increased expression of CD1a and CD1c. 15 kD granulysin but not GM CSF also caused a rapid increase in expression of IL 1 IL 6 and TNF in monocytes .

Of note 15 kD granulysin also activated immature dendritic cells. Monocytes cultured with GM CSF plus IL 4 for 4 days and then treated with 15 kD granulysin for another 24 hours expressed even higher levels of CD40 CD80 CD83 CD86 and HLA DR characteristic of mature dendritic cells . The stimulatory capabilities of dendritic cells generated with 15 kD granulysin were evaluated in two ways 1 proliferation was increased 60 fold when T cells were incubated with allogeneic dendritic cells activated by 15 kD granulysin and 2 coculture of allogeneic T cells with 15 kD activated mature dendritic cells resulted in T cells producing TNF and IFN but not IL 6 or IL 4 suggesting that 15 kD granulysin induced dendritic cells to a state that favored Th1 over Th2 or Th17 T cell differentiation .

Because the dendritic cells generated from monocytes in vitro using 15 kD granulysin differ in some ways from those dendritic cells generated with GM CSF Example 16 above microarrays were used to compare the effects of 15 kD granulysin and GM CSF on gene expression in human monocytes. Total RNA was extracted using Trizol Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. from elutriated monocytes cultured as described in Example 16. RNA integrity was assessed using an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyser Agilent Technologies Waldbronn Germany . Test samples 500 ng and Universal Reference tRNA 500 ng Invitrogen were processed using an Agilent kit labeled with Cy5 and Cy3 respectively and co hybridized according to the manufacturer s instructions on Agilent Chips Agilent Technologies Whole Human genome 4X44k . Microarray image analysis was performed using Agilent Feature Extraction Software 9.5.1.1. The resulting normalized data were uploaded on mAdb Gateway madb.nci.nih.gov and further analyzed using BRB Array Tools linus.nci.nih.gov BRB ArrayTools.html which was developed at the National Cancer Institute NCl Biometric Research Branch Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis Simon et al. 3 Feb. 4 2007 . The data set was filtered according to a standard procedure to exclude spots below a minimum intensity that was set to an arbitrary intensity parameter of 20 in both fluorescence channels. Of these 33 757 genes passed the filter and were used for further analysis. Hierarchical cluster analysis and TreeView software were used for visualization of the data http rana.lbl.gov Eisen et al. 95 14863 1998 . Class comparison analysis was conducted at a p value

Global gene expression was assessed pre treatment time 0 and after 4 12 24 and 48 hours of treatment with either 10 ng ml GM CSF or 10 nM 15 kD granulysin in monocytes obtained from 3 subjects. 6103 genes were statistically differentially expressed and showed similar patterns of expression by monocytes treated with either GM CSF or 15 kD granulysin p value

Chemokine cytokine and costimulatory adhesion genes induced by 15 kD granulysin were selected for further analysis. Genes that increased in expression at least 5 fold in the microarray analysis were selected and their mRNA levels were determined by real time qPCR. Elutriated monocytes were cultured with 10 nM 15 kD granulysin or 10 ng ml GM CSF as in Example 16 and cells were harvested at 4 12 and 24 hours and frozen. RNA was prepared using an RNeasy MiniKit and Qiashredder columns Qiagen Valencia Calif. . cDNA was generated using the iScript cDNA Synthesis kit BioRad Hercules Calif. using the manufacturer s suggested protocol. rtPCR reactions were set up in 384 well plates Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. in a final reaction volume of 10 The reaction contained the Power SyBR Green PCR Master Mix Applied Biosystems . PCR was conducted using a 7900HT Fast Real Time PCR System Applied Biosystems and data were analyzed using SDS 2.3 software package Applied Biosystems . GUS was used as the control gene for each time point.

As shown in Table 2 mRNA for all these genes was increased over levels in cells cultured in medium alone. In contrast at the four hour time point only CD274 and CD80 were slightly upregulated in monocytes cultured with GM CSF. At 4 12 and 24 hours the majority of these genes were expressed at much higher levels in cells treated with 15 kD granulysin than in those treated with GM CSF. Protein expression was also confirmed for a subset of these genes. At 24 hours monocytes cultured with 15 kD granulysin expressed abundant levels of IL 1 IL 6 and TNF while cells cultured with GM CSF did not express these cytokines Table 2 . These data indicate that 15 kD granulysin affects monocytes differently from GM CSF suggesting that 15 kD granulysin may be a useful alternative for production of antigen presenting cells for adoptive cell based therapies.

To further investigate a role for 15 kD granulysin in clinical situations a mouse model was utilized. Mice do not have a granulysin homologue however mice transgenic for human granulysin have been generated Huang et al. 178 77 84 2007 . It was previously shown that allospecific T cell lines generated from granulysin transgenic animals showed enhanced killing of target cells. In vivo effects of granulysin have been evaluated using the syngeneic T lymphoma tumor C6VL. Granulysin transgenic mice survived significantly longer than nontransgenic littermates in response to a lethal tumor challenge Huang et al. 178 77 84 2007 . These findings demonstrated for the first time an in vivo effect of granulysin. To build upon these results in another model with a different strain C57BL 6 GNLY animals were crossed onto Balb c mice.

WT and GNLY mice were injected in the right flank with 1.5 10CT26 tumor cells. After 12 14 days tumors were removed and weighed. Flow cytometry was performed using the following antibodies from BD Biosciences FITC conjugated CD3 145 2C11 CD4 L3T4 CD8 53 6.7 PE conjugated CD40 3 23 and CD86 GL1 APC conjugated interferon XMG1.2 and TNF MP6 XT22 . Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes TIL and lymphocytes from the draining inguinal and popliteal lymph nodes were prepared and analyzed for expression of CD40 and CD86. TIL were also subjected to intracellular staining for TNF and IFN following in vitro stimulation with PMA and ionomycin in the presence of GolgiStop BD Biosciences .

After 10 backcrosses the animals were challenged with the syngeneic CT26 colon carcinoma Wu et al. 27 736 742 2010 . Tumors from both wild type and transgenic mice were removed at various times and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes TIL were prepared. In addition the draining lymph nodes were removed for analysis. TIL from GNLY mice expressed granulysin while those from wild type mice did not. Using Western blot of TIL both 9 kD and 15 kD granulysin were observed with the 9 kD isoform predominating. Cytokine production and activation marker expression were examined by flow cytometry. GNLY mice had significantly smaller tumor nodules than wild type mice and this correlated with higher levels of IFN and TNF production in lymphocytes isolated from the draining nodes . Furthermore antigen presenting cells from both draining lymph nodes and tumor nodules from the GNLY mice expressed higher levels of CD40 and CD86 indicating that the capacity of T cells to produce granulysin correlates with enhanced costimulatory coactivating properties of antigen presenting cells in vivo.

The effect of 15 kD granulysin on monocyte differentiation in vitro can be determined in non human primates. Immune responses can also be determined in vivo in non human primates utilizing ex vivo monocyte cells differentiated to dendritic cells in the presence of 15 kD granulysin co administered with an antigen. Exemplary methods are described however one skilled in the art will appreciate that methods that deviate from these specific methods can also be used to successfully assess the effect of 15 kD granulysin in a primate model.

Peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC or purified monocytes are collected from rhesus macaques and are cultured with 15 kD granulysin such as about 1 nM to about 1 M or GM CSF such as about 10 ng ml for 1 5 days. Cells are then stained for cell surface antigens specific to various cell types such as T cells B cells monocytes NK cells and dendritic cells. The ability of 15 kD granulysin to promote differentiation of monocytes to immature dendritic cells is assessed by detecting cell surface markers of immature dendritic cells following treatment with 15 kD granulysin.

Monocytes purified from rhesus macaques are cultured with 10 ng ml GM CSF and IL 4 10 ng ml for 2 3 days and then 15 kD granulysin is added for about 24 hours. Cell surface markers of mature dendritic cells are assessed such as CD40 CD80 CD83 and CD86 .

Cytokine expression is also assessed in the 15 kD granulysin differentiated cells. Dendritic cells activated with 15 kD granulysin or GM CSF are cocultured with allogeneic T cells and expression of TNF IFN IL 6 and 11 4 are measured to assess T cell differentiation.

Dendritic cells activated ex vivo with 15 kD granulysin as described above are infused into rhesus macaques with antigen to monitor the effect on in vivo responses.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the disclosure may be applied it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are only examples and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims. We therefore claim as our invention all that comes within the scope and spirit of these claims.

