---

title: Underwater platform with LIDAR and related methods
abstract: Systems and methods for conducting autonomous underwater inspections of subsea and other underwater structures using a 3D laser mounted on an underwater platform such as AUV, an ROV or a tripod. The systems and methods described herein can be used for scanning underwater structures to gain a better understanding of the underwater structures, such as for example, for the purpose of generating a 3D virtual model of the underwater structure. The 3D virtual model can be used for many purposes including, but not limited to, directing inspection, repair, and manipulation of the underwater structure, navigating around the underwater structure, and other purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09229108&OS=09229108&RS=09229108
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 09229108
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140404
---
This disclosure relates to the use of LIDAR on an underwater platform to conduct inspections of subsea and other underwater structures. Data resulting from the LIDAR can be used for a number of purposes including but not limited to generating three dimensional 3D virtual models of the underwater structure.

Systems and methods that employ 3D sonar on an underwater vehicle to conduct inspections of subsea and other underwater structures is known from WO 2012 061069 WO 2012 061097 WO 2012 061099 WO 2012 061137 WO 2012 061135 and WO 2012 061134 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. In WO 2012 061137 data resulting from the 3D sonar is used to generate a 3D virtual model of the underwater structure.

This disclosure relates to systems and methods for conducting inspections of subsea and other underwater structures using a 3D laser. In particular systems and methods are described that relate to autonomous underwater inspections using a 3D laser i.e. Light Detection and Ranging or LIDAR also referred to as Laser Detection and Ranging or LADAR . The terms LIDAR LADAR and 3D laser or the like as used throughout this disclosure are intended to be synonymous with one another.

The systems and methods described herein are carried out using a suitable underwater platform such as an underwater vehicle including but not limited to an autonomous underwater vehicle AUV a remotely operated vehicles ROVs or a diver operated apparatus or other underwater platform such as a tripod. So although the description below may refer specifically to an AUV the systems and methods described herein can be employed using other types of underwater platforms whether fixed or stationary. As used herein an ROV is a remotely operated underwater vehicle that can be tethered by a cable to a host such as a surface ship. The ROV is unoccupied and is operated by a pilot aboard the host. The tether can carry for example electrical power in place of or to supplement battery power on the self contained system video and data signals back and forth between the host and the ROV. As used herein an AUV is an autonomous underwater vehicle that is unmanned and is not tethered to a host vessel.

The systems and methods described herein can be used for scanning underwater structures to gain a better understanding of the underwater structures such as for example for the purpose of generating a 3D virtual model of the underwater structure. The 3D virtual model can be used for many purposes including but not limited to directing inspection repair and manipulation of the underwater structure navigating around the underwater structure and other purposes.

The described systems and methods can be used to scan any type of underwater structure. For example underwater structures include man made objects such as offshore oil platform support structures and piers and oil well related equipment as well as natural objects such as underwater mountain ranges and can include structures that are wholly or partially underwater. Underwater structure can also include both stationary and non stationary structures for example that may experience drift in the underwater environment. More generally underwater structure is meant to encompass any arbitrary three dimensional structure with depth variation and that may have varying complexity.

As used herein the term underwater includes any type of underwater environment in which an underwater structure may be located and may need to be scanned using the systems and methods described herein including but not limited to salt water locations such as seas and oceans and freshwater locations.

In one embodiment a method of building a 3D virtual model of an underwater structure includes directing one or more laser beam pulses from a 3D laser mounted on an underwater platform toward the underwater structure and detecting light that is reflected from the underwater structure. A data point cloud is obtained from the detected reflected light with the data point cloud being processed to provide a three dimensional virtual model of the portion of the underwater structure. An alignment model of the underwater structure is generated based from the data point cloud obtained. Another laser beam pulse is directed toward the underwater structure and a new data point cloud obtained. A sample of the new data point cloud obtained is aligned to the alignment model and a 3D virtual model of the underwater structure is constructed using at least one of the data point clouds. When the new data point cloud is obtained a processor is configured to obtain the new data point cloud from a data storage. The processor is configured to align the new data point cloud obtained to the alignment model and to add the aligned data point cloud to the alignment model. At the completion of this process the alignment model represents a 3D virtual model of the underwater structure.

The AUV can be used to inspect any underwater structure. Examples of underwater structures include but are not limited to a platform support structure that comprises a plurality of support legs an underwater pipeline an underwater facility and other underwater structures. The AUV operations can be supported by a surface ship or other non underwater vehicle which in turn can be in communication with a satellite which can be in communication with a land based facility. This communication chain is exemplary only and other communication chains can be utilized.

The AUV is fitted with a pylon that contains a 3D laser system for conducting 3D laser inspections of an underwater structure. The AUV can be any underwater vehicle configured for conducting underwater travel and operations and that can support the 3D laser system. In one non limiting example an AUV with a pylon that can accommodate the 3D laser system is the Marlin AUV available from Lockheed Martin Corporation of Bethesda Md. The 3D laser system is not limited to being within the pylon and is not limited to being located within the AUV . Rather the 3D laser system can be mounted at any suitable location on the AUV including on the outside of the AUV .

The AUV can use any suitable 3D laser system. In one non limiting example the 3D laser system that is used can be based on the Depth Perception 3D laser produced by 3D At Depth LLC of Boulder Colo. The Depth Perception 3D laser provides survey quality 3D data collection at depths up to 3000 meters. The Depth Perception laser includes a pulsed laser laser receiver electronics e.g. a means for detecting reflected light such as a photodector and processing software and algorithms.

Although an AUV is described herein and shown in the illustrated embodiment the 3D laser system can be mounted on other underwater platforms including but not limited to other self propelled platforms such as an ROV or non self propelled platforms such as a tripod.

The AUV and supporting subsystems such as the surface ship and or the land based facility can be provided with the following functions and capabilities singly or in any combination.

Once anomalies have been identified from the 3D mapping scan the AUV can autonomously or under command from a supporting subsystem re plan a path to revisit these areas at a stand off distance appropriate for the collection of high definition optical imagery.

In one exemplary embodiment no processing of the laser data will occur while the AUV is in the water. In this example the raw sensor data will be stored and processed into point clouds by a supporting subsystem for example a host surface ship or a land based facility. The point clouds can then be post processed for the 3D virtual model build. If real time analysis of the laser data is desired then real time processing of the laser data can occur on the AUV.

The AUV can be configured to autonomously perform an inspection sortie of a subsurface structure detecting and reporting structural anomalies and collecting detailed inspection data for analysis. Depending upon the underwater structure to be inspected the AUV can be provided with a suitable inspection package to permit the inspection.

With reference to the pylon contains the 3D laser system therein. In the illustrated example the electronics and optics of the 3D laser system can be split into two separate enclosures including an optics pressure vessel enclosure containing the optics for the 3D laser including the laser emitter and the reflected light detector and an electronics pressure vessel enclosure containing the electronics for operating and controlling the laser.

The laser can be mounted at any axial sensor angle per operational scenario. In one embodiment the laser of the optics enclosure can be mounted at a side look down angle of approximately 45 degrees as shown in . Such a side look angle will provide good coverage of vertical and horizontal aspects of the area of interest. The laser is illustrated as being mounted so as to point portside but it could be mounted so as to look starboard forward aft downward or upward.

In one embodiment motorized control of the laser mount angle can be provided. With reference to the optics enclosure contains a steerable mirror assembly which provides off axis pointing of the laser beam. In one example illustrated in the turn down assembly can provide a vertical raster scan providing a resultant window of operation X of for example about 15 degrees perpendicular to the enclosure and a forward raster scan of for example about 0 to 15 degrees axial to the enclosure. Both the forward and vertical scanner operations can be fully programmable to meet varying operational modes.

With reference to the electronics enclosure provides power and communication interfaces with the AUV and also interfaces with the optics enclosure .

The 3D laser can be controlled to any suitable mode of operation including but not limited to the three following exemplary modes of operation 

With reference to the continuous scan mode provides fully programmable line scan vertical scanning operation utilizing the forward motion of the AUV . In the continuous scan mode laser return data generated by the laser light that is reflected by the portion of the underwater structure being inspected is transferred from the electronics to the host processor after each scan line. This is referred to as re arm time. A slight forward track correction per vertical scan line can be applied to provide a nearly vertical scan pattern to yield a more symmetric overall scan pattern. illustrates the continuous scan mode for a vertical target.

With reference to a bowtie scan mode is illustrated that is an adaptation of the continuous scan mode. The bowtie scan mode provides fully programmable line scan operation with interlaced forward pointing. This mode provides fast scanning and full field of view operation which is useful as a navigational aid. As depicted in the laser beam is swept thru a bowtie pattern starting from position and moving generally transverse to the direction of travel of the AUV to position . From position the laser beam sweeps at an angle to position followed by a transverse sweep from position to position finished by an angled sweep from position back to position . The characteristics of the bowtie pattern can be fully programmable and in one embodiment each of the four sweep segments contains an equal number of laser pulses.

With reference to a full scan mode is illustrated that functions similar to the continuous scan mode. However in the full scan mode the forward track angle is stepped between vertical passes to capture high detail of a given target or to quickly capture a larger field of view. The re arm operation occurs after the complete scan instead of after each vertical pass as in the continuous scan mode. In the full scan mode the forward track scan angle can be stepped from for example about 0 to 15 degrees. The full scan mode is fully programmable for scan rates and forward and vertical coverage angles. Although labeled vertical for a side scan orientation the raster scan motion is still considered cross track . The laser could be mounted looking down or at a rotated orientation depending on the target of interest. In addition motorized movement of sensor per application for immediate adjustment and target coverage can also be provided.

As indicated above using the whole field of view of the sensor provides better coverage of the target surface. It was determined that the scan pattern had no effect on the residual point cloud error. It is preferred that the scan pattern selected should use both extremes of the field of view provide a high data rate and provide an even sampling of the structure at typical operating range and velocity. In order to get the highest data rate possible downtime between scan lines should be minimized. In order to scan one side of the field of view and then the other with minimal downtime diagonal scan lines can be used. Based on these factors it has been determined that in many instances the bowtie scan pattern may be the preferred scan pattern.

Communication packets for command and control can be sent and received from the laser via for example the TCP IP Ethernet Protocol. The laser can be configured with a static IP address for its network connections. The laser can provide a command acknowledge response packet for specific commands referred to as telemetry. In addition the laser can provide housekeeping telemetry packets at a regular interval to describe the current operating state of the laser. Environmental information can also be transmitted to the laser for laser range accuracy and determination of safe operating conditions for the laser. In addition time synchronization can be employed between the AUV and the laser. Time synchronization is utilized in order to synchronize current laser pointing and range information with current position and orientation of the AUV.

The laser can communicate with the AUV modules through for example Ethernet packets. All command and telemetry packets can include a packet header and packet data. A command packet is generated on the AUV and sent to the laser through the TCP IP interface. The laser will respond to all command packets with a response telemetry packet describing pass fail status of the command.

A telemetry packet is generated on the laser and sent to the AUV modules through the TCP IP interface. Some telemetry packets will be issued in response to commands and others such as housekeeping packets will be sent at a regular interval.

Separate missions have different initial position errors due to GPS error. The difference between two missions can easily be a few meters. Alignment of the datasets to each other is required for automated change detection.

A time synchronization approach between the 3D laser system and the navigation system of the AUV can also be selected that will keep the timing error under for example 1 ms. Conventional time synchronization techniques can be used to achieve the synchronization.

Calibration error is the error in the measurement of the pose of the 3D laser system relative to the pose of the navigation system. To reduce calibration error offline dry land and online calibration measurement approaches were compared. The online alignment approach is believed to be preferred as it eliminates any error introduced by physical misalignment after the one time offline alignment.

With reference to scanning over the full range of azimuths maximizes the area sensed. illustrates the coverage area when scanning the object at a single azimuth. illustrates the coverage area when scanning at a full range of azimuths. Even further coverage is provided when scanning over the full range of azimuths at the corners of the structure as shown in .

Building a model of an underwater structure from 3D laser data requires knowledge of the sensor position and orientation at the time of each laser pulse. Prior disclosures have addressed the problem of position and orientation estimation relative to an existing model using sonar data. However if there is no existing model that approach cannot be used. The difficult problem is position and orientation estimation without an existing model or accurate localization navigation pose information followed by construction of a 3D model of the underwater structure. This problem is often called Simultaneous Localization and Mapping SLAM .

The approach described herein uses a 3D laser which produces a single data point for each laser pulse which data points are then combined to produce a full depth image. No a priori 3D model is required by the disclosed approach. The approach matches to the model being built rather than to a prior model and provides simultaneous localization and mapping from 3D laser data derived directly from the environment. In an alternative embodiment a 3D laser system that produces multiple data points from a single laser pulse for example a flash LADAR system could be used.

This problem has been addressed in many sensors including sonar and images. In sonar it has been used in bathymetric applications rather than in applications of modeling complex 3D structures. Approaches using bathymetric sonar use 2.5D matching approaches that match patches of sonar data together to align multiple passes. This approach does not work on complex 3D structures such as oil rigs or piers with lots of depth variation in the sonar data.

The method includes directing laser pulses toward an underwater structure so that they impinge on a portion of the structure. Light reflected from the structure is detected generating data point clouds . The point clouds are processed to generate a 3D image i.e. the laser is a 3D laser. The 3D laser can be any 3D laser that can create a 3D image from the reflected light of one or more transmitted light pulses. An example of a suitable 3D laser is the Depth Perception 3D laser produced by 3D At Depth LLC of Boulder Colo. However as indicated above a flash LADAR system could also be used. It will be appreciated that the 3D laser can be arranged such that it points toward an underwater structure so that it can send laser pulse at the underwater structure and can be oriented at various desired angles as discussed above and distances from the underwater structure.

It will be appreciated that inertial navigation systems are known and are used to determine the position orientation and velocity e.g. direction and speed of movement of the underwater vehicle. An inertial navigation system can include a Doppler velocity log DVL unit that faces downward for use in determining velocity but it will be appreciated that an inertial navigation system can be any system that can determine position orientation and velocity e.g. direction and speed of movement . An example of a suitable inertial navigation system is the SEA DeVil available from Kearfott Corporation.

Once the reflected light is detected by the light detector of the 3D laser data points are obtained which are suitable for forming a scanned 3D virtual model of the underwater structure. The data points are then used to generate a working virtual alignment model which will be used in alignment of subsequent 3D models as the pre existing 3D model of the underwater structure. Additional data is collected by repeating steps and and new data points are obtained which are aligned and added to the virtual alignment model.

With reference to the alignment step in one embodiment the additional data points are aligned with the virtual alignment model by an iterative process of fitting the data with the alignment model. In some embodiments this iterative process is based on data from multiple 3D laser pulses. By aligning the new data to the alignment model and adding the aligned data to the alignment model the 3D virtual model of the underwater structure is built . As the virtual alignment model is a virtual working model of the 3D underwater structure the virtual model being created with new incoming data is used to update the alignment model so it can be used to align to additional collected data.

As additional data is collected the Point Clouds are Aligned to the Alignment Model and Transformed by the Refined Pose computed by the align block . The Transform block may be the same as that shown in further described below . It will be appreciated that the Transform block can use the Refined Pose to transform data points such that they are aligned with the Alignment Model and that the blocks in may have different pose inputs but the function of the blocks is the same. The Transformed point clouds can also be stored in the Point Cloud Archive which is a data storage. During the alignment blocks and represent an iterative looping process see which aligns and fits the new data with the Alignment Model .

The Loop Closure receives for each incoming data Point Cloud an estimated pose from the Filter and by referencing the Alignment Model the Loop Closure Needed block determines whether the 3D model from the incoming data Point Cloud overlaps a portion of the Alignment Model. Match block then matches these features and computes the pose correction required to bring the two segments into alignment. A Correct Poses block checks to see if this pose correction is above a threshold and if it is not sends the pose estimate to the Align block. If the pose correction is above a threshold the Correct Poses block identifies the portion of the model that needs to be adjusted to bring the two existing model portions into alignment estimates the pose adjustments that will bring them into alignment and sends this information to a Rebuild Model Segment block which recomputes the portion of the model that needs to be adjusted using the corrected poses from the Correct Poses block and point clouds from the Point Cloud Archive . The Correct Poses block then passes the adjusted estimated pose to the align block which aligns the new 3D model to the newly adjusted Alignment Model. It will be appreciated that the model feature extraction block and the match block functions of the loop closure may be based on the align block described in .

As shown the Filter receives position and orientation estimates for example from a navigation system such as an inertial navigation system as well as the refined poses from the Align block. The Filter maintains an estimate of the vehicle State pose and its derivatives and uses these to Predict the pose of the laser at the times the laser produces data. An Update block fuses pose estimates from navigation and from the Align block to update the State . It is to be appreciated that one possible implementation of the Filter is a Kalman filter which is well known.

With reference to the arrow leading from the Filter to the Loop Closure it will be appreciated that because alignment occurs with respect to the model being built the error in each alignment can have a tendency to accumulate over time which may cause significant error in the Alignment Model. The Loop Closure is a process that recognizes when an area that has been seen before is being observed and uses an alternate alignment process to reduce this error. The pose computed by Predict Pose is used in order to determine whether it is an appropriate time to apply the loop closure process.

In generating the Alignment Model and its subsequent use in building a 3D model of the underwater structure it will be appreciated that data from multiple laser pulses from the 3D laser can be collected. The information from these pulses is turned into multiple samples of new data points which are aligned with the Alignment Model. It will be appreciated that the new data points and each sample can represent a different viewpoint of an area inspected by the 3D laser. It will also be appreciated that the samples can substantially overlap in most areas so there is a significant redundancy in the 3D data in the Alignment Model. Such multiple and redundant sampling as well as samples of overlapping views can help increase the confidence and viability of the model built.

With further reference to the details of the alignment processing show flow diagrams of one embodiment of aligning information from collected data points to the Alignment Model. Generally in the embodiment shown a sample of new data points obtained is aligned to the Alignment Model. As shown the step of aligning includes an iterative method of repeatedly performing a fit processing based on multiple samples of the data points which is further described below and where the fit processing includes adjusting the data points sampled to match with the Alignment Model of the 3D underwater structure. Generally alignment and fit processing includes estimating the pose of the 3D laser to align the new data with the previous data stored in the model.

With reference to the reflected light from the 3D laser provides the point clouds see also used to perform the alignment process. The point clouds include data points which represent a 3D model of the underwater structure. Due to a usual high level of noise and potential non useful information that is known to occur the data points in some circumstances are filtered before undergoing alignment.

With further reference to the filtered point cloud proceeds to a processing loop . In one embodiment the processing loop is a RANSAC random sample consensus loop which is an iterative method to estimate parameters of a mathematical model from a set of observed data which contains outliers . For example the loop represents a non deterministic algorithm in the sense that it produces a reasonable result with a certain probability and where the probability can increase as more iterations are performed. In this case the parameters of the mathematical model are the position and orientation pose of the 3D laser relative to the pre existing model of the underwater structure and the observed data are the data points from the laser. A basic assumption is that the observed data consists of inliers i.e. data that can be explained by the mathematical model with some pose parameters and outliers which are data that cannot be thus explained. As a pre existing 3D model is available in the method herein such an iterative process given a small set of inliers can be used to estimate the parameters of a pose by computing a pose that fits the data i.e. 3D laser data points optimally to their corresponding closest model points.

As shown in the processing loop can include processing functions Transform Random Sample and Fit . In the Transform portion the point clouds undergo transformation to a coordinate system specified by the initial pose that brings them into approximate alignment with the pre existing 3D model.

As further shown in an initial pose is input into the Transform portion. In some instances the initial pose represents the position and orientation from an underwater vehicle s inertial navigation system. In subsequent iterations the initial pose can be the result from updated knowledge of the first or any preceding alignment that has occurred while undergoing the procedure shown by . It will be appreciated that a preceding alignment can be appropriately adjusted based on other measurements such as inertial velocity or acceleration and other inputs from the underwater vehicle s inertial navigation system.

With reference to the available pre existing 3D model also called the Alignment Model the pre existing 3D model can be input to the diagram at and and further described as follows.

In the Random Sample portion of the loop a sample of the points from the point cloud is obtained for further processing and comparison with the pre existing 3D model. The Fit portion of the loop is where the points sampled from Random Sample are adjusted to line up with the pre existing 3D model. That is the collective position pose of the 3D laser data e.g. data points is rigidly adjusted to align the points with the pre existing 3D model. In the Fit portion the data points can undergo one or more closest point calculations to determine the closest point on the model. The data points and the closest point on the model for each data point are used to compute the correction to the initial pose that optimally aligns the data points and closest points on the model for each data point.

As described the alignment process is an iterative method to determine a correction to the initial pose that aligns as many points of the data as possible the inliers with the pre existing 3D model. In some embodiments this is achieved from a single laser pulse from the 3D laser for example data points from a single laser pulse from which the data point samples are taken. It will also be appreciated that multiple laser pulses of the 3D laser may be employed as needed.

Thus it will be appreciated that the functions Transform Random Sample and Fit are configured as a loop that can be repeated as necessary to raise the confidence that the best alignment of the data with the pre existing 3D model found in these iterations is truly the best possible alignment. The step of aligning in many embodiments includes repeatedly performing a fit processing based on multiple samples of the data points or data points from multiple laser pulses where the fit processing includes adjusting the data points sampled to align with the pre existing 3D model of the underwater structure. It will be appreciated that in appropriate circumstances the multiple samples of data points or data points from multiple laser pulses that go through the loop can often have overlapping data points where such overlap can further help increase the probability of finding the best possible alignment of the data points with the model.

That is the fit is done using a subsample of the data points. Fit uses these points to estimate the pose of the sensor relative to the model. This estimated transfoiln is applied to all data points. The transformed points are then compared to the pre existing model to determine how well the data matches.

It will also be appreciated that the number of iterations that is appropriate and the amount of overlap used to carry out the alignment and fit can depend upon a balance of several factors. Some factors can include but are not limited to for example the amount of processing power employed how much time is used to collect data reliability of the data collected and the Alignment Model how the underwater vehicle is moving and the complexity of the underwater structure. Where more than one 3D laser pulse is employed other factors such as for example the pulse rate of the 3D laser the potential increase in the initial pose error over time and the accuracy of the model can be considered in determining how many iterations of the alignment process are needed.

After many random samples of data points have been fitted a number of solutions can be obtained. shows portions Order Solutions by Error and Find Best Solution . The solutions provided by the loop are ordered e.g. at so that the best solution can be obtained e.g. at . Once the best solution is obtained the closest points on the pre existing 3D model to each of the inliers of this solution are determined and the correction to the initial pose that best aligns these inliers with the closest points is computed at Fit w Inliers . The updated pose is sent for example back to the underwater vehicle s inertial navigation system.

It will be appreciated that the methods of building a 3D model of the underwater structure herein may be provided in an autonomous system onboard an underwater vehicle. In some embodiments the underwater vehicle is an autonomous underwater vehicle AUV with the appropriate processing capability to build a model in real time. However it will be appreciated that the system may be wholly or partially onboard other vehicles such as for example an ROV or a manned sea vessel.

In one embodiment the system includes a 3D laser sensor and an inertial navigation system along with suitable processing capability to carry out model building of underwater structures.

In the embodiment shown the 3D laser sensor detects light that is reflected by the underwater structure of interest and transmits gathered data to a data storage . A data processor is configured to obtain the data points from the data storage . The data processor can be for example any suitable processing unit. The data points are processed to generate the alignment model e.g. Alignment Model of the underwater structure based from the data points obtained. When additional data is collected by the sensor this data is aligned to the alignment model to build the 3D model of the underwater structure.

For example the processor obtains new data points from the data storage after additional data is collected by the sensor . As with the initial data points the new data points are processed to provide a 3D model of the underwater structure. The processor is configured to align a sample of the new data points obtained to the alignment model and using the alignment techniques described to build the 3D model of the underwater structure with the new data points.

It will be appreciated that the information obtained on the underwater structure can be used to update the vehicle navigation system which is for example an inertial navigation system. It will be appreciated that the components of the system can be powered by the underwater vehicle.

The methods and systems described herein above can be used to build a 3D model of an existing underwater structure based on laser pulses from a 3D laser. Such applications can include but are not limited to subsea structure inspection and repair in both commercial and military settings harbor inspection and mine detection and or countermeasures. In one embodiment data from pulses of the 3D laser is collected data from an inertial navigation system is collected and the data is logged and processed to generate a 3D model of the scanned underwater structure or alignment model. The alignment model is a working virtual 3D model of the underwater structure to which further data can be aligned for change detection. The collection logging and processing of the data can be performed using the data processing electronics onboard the underwater vehicle with real time processing capability.

Such a method and system for model building as described herein can be useful when inspecting for damage deformation of underwater structures. The methods and systems described herein above can be useful for example in situations where an underwater vehicle is far from the seafloor for example over 1000 meters such that other navigation tools such as DVL are unavailable. It will be appreciated that no other feature based sensors are necessary and that navigation relative to non stationary underwater structures may also be possible using the methods and systems herein. The use of a 3D laser allows scanning of complex 3D structures to provide a full six degrees of freedom in pose.

3D Model Building of an Underwater Structure in Real Time Using the AUV Configured with Sonar and LADAR

In a variation of the 3D virtual model building discussed above 3D sonar and LADAR can be used. Building a model of an underwater structure from 3D sonar and 3D laser data requires knowledge of the sensor positions and orientations at the time of each sonar ping and laser pulse.

The sonar produces a relatively low resolution depth image for each sonar ping. This depth image is used as an estimate for the initial alignment for the laser depth image which has higher resolution than the sonar. WO 2012 061137 discloses building a 3D virtual model using a 3D sonar.

This embodiment reduces search time improves alignment reliability and produces a multi resolution model that reflects the resolution of the data available on each model region. This embodiment provides simultaneous localization and mapping from sonar and laser data derived directly from the environment.

3D modeling has been addressed in many sensors including sonar and images but not with the use of two 3D sensors of very different resolutions and coverage such as 3D sonar and 3D laser. In sonar it has been used in bathymetric applications rather than in applications of modeling structures. Approaches using bathymetric sonar use 2.5D matching approaches that match patches of sonar data together to align multiple passes. However that technique does not work on complex 3D structure such as oil rigs or piers with lots of depth variation in the sonar data.

In one embodiment data from the 3D laser and the 3D sonar can be fused together to construct a single virtual model from the data. In another embodiment a virtual model from the 3D laser data can be constructed and a virtual model from the 3D sonar can be constructed with the two models then being combined to create a single virtual model.

No a priori 3D model is required and it produces a multi resolution model that reflects the resolution of the data available on each model region.

3D Model Building of an Underwater Structure in Real Time Using the AUV Configured with Scanning LADAR

In a variation of the 3D virtual model building discussed above a scanning 3D laser can be used. A scanning 3D laser produces a single range return for a single laser pulse with the returns from many pulses being combined to produce a complete scan. This technique compensates for sensor pose changes that may occur between each scan by aligning all the scans first at a coarse level then at a finer level based on matching the structure in the scans. This technique compensates for sensor pose changes that may occur between each pulse by correcting their position based on the pose estimates from an inertial navigation unit. This technique provides simultaneous localization and mapping from scanning LADAR derived directly from the environment.

This embodiment explicitly addresses the issue of compensating for motion of the sensor during the sensor scan including errors in the poses provided by the inertial navigation unit.

The examples disclosed in this application are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not limitative. The scope of the invention is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.

