---

title: Systems and methods for endpoint recording using a media application server
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for recording media communication. An exemplary method comprises the steps of: receiving an incoming communication from a first communication device; routing the incoming communication to a second communication device in a call center; transmitting media communications associated with the incoming media communication between the first communication device and the second communication device through a media application server; duplicating the media communications via the media application server; transmitting the duplicated media communications via the media application server; and recording the duplicated media communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584656&OS=09584656&RS=09584656
owner: VERINT AMERICAS INC.
number: 09584656
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140519
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 769 552 filed Apr. 28 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 395 759 filed on Mar. 31 2006 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is generally related to recording of communication signals and more particularly is related to systems and methods for recording communication signals through a contact center.

A traditional passive tap recording technique includes recorders that are deployed along routes of communications. In this technique each recorder operates similar to a sniffer by analyzing pass by communication packets. The recorder records the packets corresponding to certain communication sessions based on its configuration. shows a typical deployment of passive tap recorders in a contact center. In an IP telephony environment recorders are typically deployed either at the voice gateway which interfaces between Internet Protocol IP network and public switched telephone network PSTN or at switches in order to stay along the routes of the communications. This technique has the advantages of 1 minimum intrusion to a communication system 2 cost effectiveness in deployment for companies with centralized office locations and 3 easy scalability for compliance recording. However for companies with many distributed branch offices the above advantages start to diminish. This is especially true if the purpose of the recorders is for quality monitoring.

First with the growing usage of Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP technology many telephony based businesses such as contact centers are adopting distributed telephony systems with local access to PSTN which are still controlled by centralized soft switches. Many contact centers are using at home agents with soft phones on their personal computers PCs . The distributed telephony system makes recording along the communication routes needed for passive tap recording difficult. Secondly network security has now become a concern. The deployment of encryption technology has made passive tap recording become even more problematic.

In addition many contact centers deploy recorders for quality monitoring purpose instead of compliance. In this regard only a small percentage of the communications are recorded and monitored. However to assure the accuracy of the sampling communications are randomly selected for recording across all branch offices. With passive tap recording a large number of recorders will be required and each recorder will have very low usage.

A typical IP based contact center using the passive tapping sniffing recording method is shown in . Two branch offices are shown in the figure. To communicate with any agents at the contact center a customer communication device such as a time domain multiplexing TDM or an IP phone first sends communication signals to a call processing device of the contact center such as a soft switch. The communication signals can be sent either directly to the call processing device in case of IP to IP communications or via a media processing device such as a voice gateway in case of TDM to IP. The communication network can be a PSTN network or IP based network. Once the communication signals have been received the call processing device then routes the communication signals to an agent phone.

After several rounds of communication signals exchange media communications between the agent s phone and customer s phone can proceed via media processing device and distribution devices. The distribution devices are network routers and switches. In order to record the media communications using passive tapping recorders are deployed at the media processing device or distribution devices using the network traffic monitoring or duplicating features such as the Cisco s Switch Port Analyzer SPAN feature on these devices. These tapping features are often available to the recorders that are directly connected to the media processing device or distribution devices namely to recorders deployed at each branch office. Hence a large contact center having multiple branches such as a branch in New York a branch in Los Angeles and a branch in Chicago may need multiple recorders in each branch to record the media communications.

Systems and methods for recording media communication are provided. An exemplary method comprises the steps of receiving an incoming communication from a first communication device routing the incoming communication to a second communication device in a call center transmitting media communications associated with the incoming media communication between the first communication device and the second communication device through a media application server duplicating the media communications via the media application server transmitting the duplicated media communications via the media application server and recording the duplicated media communications.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for recording communication signals without requiring recording devices to be deployed along the route of the two end points of the communication. In particular the recording of the communication signals can be achieved using a soft switch a conference bridge a phone a media communication device and or a media application server.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems are described examples of flow diagrams and sequence diagrams of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which communication signals can be recorded.

Referring now in more detail to the figures is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a system in which media communication at a company can be recorded by an endpoint recorder located anywhere on an IP network connected to the company. Two branch offices of a company may need to record communications between employees and between employees and customers. Customer communication devices connect to branch offices either via an IP network or via a PSTN network respectively. The customer communication devices can include but are not limited to telephones soft phones on hand held devices or Personal Computers.

Recording device s can be deployed anywhere on the IP network connected to the branch offices . Alternatively or additionally the recording devices can communicate with media controlling processing distributing devices in a secure fashion in encrypted environments for getting communication events and for sending instructions. With the capability of the recording devices to communicate with the media controlling processing distributing devices the recording device can selectively record communications in the contact center based on business policy. Alternatively or additionally if a recording device is a cluster of recording devices the recording device can communicate with the media controlling processing distributing devices to select which recording device from the cluster of recording devices to record the communications for load balancing purposes.

The media controlling processing devices control the communication between customers and employees and between employees. The media controlling processing devices can include but are not limited to voice gateways soft switches conference bridges and multi media application servers. The distributing devices can include but are not limited to routers and switches. Based on static configuration or instructions from the recording devices the media controlling processing devices can duplicate and transmit on going communication between communication devices to the recording devices via the IP network using its media processing features. Alternatively or additionally the media controlling processing devices can also instruct a communication device at the company premises respectively to duplicate and transmit any on going communications to the recording devices using media processing features on the communication devices . The operation of the system is further described in relation to .

In this embodiment the soft switch is operative to send a command to the agent phones and voice gateway via the company network instructing the agent phones and voice gateway to transmit media communications associated with the incoming calls through the conference bridge via the company network . The soft switch also sends a command to the conference bridge via the company network to duplicate and transmit the media communication to the voice endpoint recorder using the IP network . The operation of the system is further described in relation to .

Alternatively or additionally the soft switch can receive instructions for recording the media communication from the voice endpoint recorder via the IP network . In turn the soft switch sends a command based on the received instructions to the conference bridge . Alternatively or additionally the soft switch can have capabilities of a conference bridge. That is the soft switch can duplicate and transmit the media communication to the voice endpoint recorder without using the conference bridge .

As shown in the contact center premises further includes headquarters that communicates with branches via the IP network . The headquarters can be provided at one location e.g. Chicago and the branches can be provided at different locations e.g. Los Angeles and Washington D.C. Despite the different locations of the headquarters and branches a media communication can be recorded to a single voice endpoint recorder using the conference bridge and IP network . Note that the headquarters includes a similar system as shown in . That is the headquarters includes soft switch conference bridge company network and agent phones .

Agent phones within the branches can receive media communications from within the contact center premises or from customer phone . The soft switch can send a command to the agent phones instructing the agent phones to transmit media communication through the conference bridge via the IP network . The soft switch also can send a command to the conference bridge via the company network to duplicate and transmit the media communication associated with the agent phones to the voice endpoint recorder using the IP network . The operation of the system will also be described in greater detail in relation to .

As in the soft switch manages incoming calls and routes the incoming calls to agent phones via the company network . The soft switch communicates with the agent phones to determine whether the agent phones can duplicate and transmit media communications to an endpoint recorder . If the agent phones have the capability the soft switch instructs the agent phones via the company network to duplicate and transmit media communications associated with the incoming calls to the endpoint recorder using the IP network . Alternatively or additionally the soft switch can receive instructions for recording the media communication from the voice endpoint recorder via the IP network . In turn the soft switch sends a command based on the received instructions to the agent phones . The operation of the system is further described in relation to .

In this embodiment the media application server includes a media controller and a media processor . The media controller processes media communications identifies the type of media communications and routes the media communications to media communication devices and media processor via the company network . The media controller can send a command to the media communication devices via the company network instructing the media communication devices to transmit the media communications through the media application server via the company network . Once the media application server receives media communications the media processor duplicates and transmits the media communications to the media endpoint recorder using the IP network . Alternatively or additionally the media controller can receive instructions for recording the media communications from the media endpoint recorder via the IP network . In turn the media controller sends a command based on the received instructions to the media processor . The operation of the system is further described in relation to .

Alternatively or additionally the media communication devices can have the capabilities of duplicating and transmitting the media communications to a media endpoint recorder . For example the media controller manages the media communications and routes the media communications to the media communication devices via the company network . The media controller communicates with the media communication devices to determine whether the communication devices can duplicate and transmit the media communications to a media endpoint recorder . If the communication devices have the capability the media controller instructs the media communication devices via the company network to duplicate and transmit media communications to the media endpoint recorder using the IP network . Alternatively or additionally the media controller can receive instructions for recording the media communications from the media endpoint recorder via the IP network . In turn the media controller sends a command based on the received instructions to the communication devices .

In one scenario for example calls from a customer phone can be routed to a voice gateway which can route the calls to the soft switch . The soft switch receives incoming calls and routes the calls to the agent phones . The soft switch communicates with the conference bridge via the company network . The IP telephony system communicates with the multi media endpoint recorder via an IP network . In this example the soft switch is operative to send a command to the agent phones and voice gateway via the company network instructing the agent phones and voice gateway to transmit media communications associated with the incoming calls through the conference bridge via the company network . The soft switch also sends a command to the conference bridge via the company network to duplicate and transmit the media communication to the multi media endpoint recorder using the IP network .

In another scenario for example the soft switch can have capabilities of a conference bridge as mentioned above. The soft switch can duplicate and transmit the media communication without the conference bridge to the multi media endpoint recorder using the IP network .

In yet another scenario for example the soft switch communicates with the agent phones to determine whether the phones can duplicate and transmit media communications to the multi media endpoint recorder . If the agent phones have the capability the soft switch instructs the agent phones via the company network to duplicate and transmit media communications associated with the incoming calls to the multi media endpoint recorder using the IP network .

In yet another scenario for example the media application server receives incoming non voice media communications identifies the type of non voice media communications and routes the non voice media communications to media communication devices via the company network . The media application server can send a command to the media communication devices via the company network instructing the media communication devices to transmit the non voice media communications through the media application server via the company network . The media application server duplicates and transmits the non voice media communications to the multi media endpoint recorder using the IP network .

In yet another scenario for example the media communication devices can have the capabilities of duplicating and transmitting the non voice media communications to the multi media endpoint recorder . For example the media application server manages the non voice media communications and routes the non voice media communications to the media communication devices via the company network . The media application server communicates with the media communication devices to determine whether the communication devices can duplicate and transmit the non voice media communications to the multi media endpoint recorder . If the communication devices have the capability the media application server instructs the media communication devices via the company network to duplicate and transmit the non voice media communications to the multi media endpoint recorder using the IP network .

At event the soft switch instructs the conference bridge to duplicate and transmit the media communication to a voice endpoint recorder. The instruction to the conference bridge can include an IP address and a port of the voice endpoint recorder. At event the called phone transmits the media communication to the conference bridge such as by using the IP address port of the conference bridge. At event the conference bridge duplicates the media communication from the called phone and transmits the duplicated media communication to the recorder such as by using the IP address port of the voice endpoint recorder. The recorder receives and records the duplicated media communication from the called phone. Notably the voice endpoint recorder can be located anywhere inside or outside the contact center premises as long as the recorder is connected to an IP network connected to the contact center.

At event the conference bridge routes the media communication from the called phone to the calling agent phone or the voice gateway. At event the calling agent phone or the voice gateway transmits the media communication to the conference bridge such as by using the IP address and port of the conference bridge. At event the conference bridge duplicates the media communication from the calling agent phone or the voice gateway and transmits the duplicated media communication to the recorder such as by using an IP address and a port of the recorder. The recorder receives and records the duplicated media communication from the calling agent phone or the voice gateway. At event the conference bridge routes the media communication from the calling agent phone or the voice gateway to the called phone of the contact center premises. Thereafter the sequence is returned to event so that the called phone can transmit the media communication to the conference bridge as instructed by the soft switch as shown at event .

At event the called phone receives the media communication from the calling agent phone or the voice gateway duplicates the media communication and transmits the duplicated media communication to the recorder such as by using the IP address and port of the recorder. The recorder receives and records the duplicated media communication from the calling agent phone or the voice gateway. At event the called phone transmits the media communication to the calling agent phone or the voice gateway. The called phone can duplicate its media communication and transmits the duplicated media communication to the recorder. The recorder receives and records the duplicated media communication from the called phone. At event the calling agent phone or the voice gateway transmits its media communication to the called phone. At event the sequence is returned to event during which the called phone receives the media communication from the calling agent phone or the voice gateway duplicates the media communication and transmits the duplicated media communication to the recorder.

At event the calling and called communication devices transmit and receive the media communications to and from the media application server. At event the media application server duplicates the media communications between the calling and called communication devices and transmits the duplicated media communications such as by using an IP address and a port of a media endpoint recorder. The media endpoint recorder receives and records the duplicated media communication from the calling and called communication devices.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims.

