---

title: Droplet actuator with improved top substrate
abstract: The invention provides a droplet actuator. The droplet actuator may include a base substrate and a top substrate separated to form a gap. The base substrate may include electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations in the gap; and the top substrate may include a glass substrate portion coupled to a non-glass portion, where the non-glass portion may include one or more openings establishing a fluid path extending from an exterior of the droplet actuator and into the gap. The invention also provides related methods of manufacturing the droplet actuator, methods of using the droplet actuator, and methods of loading the droplet actuator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09511369&OS=09511369&RS=09511369
owner: Advanced Liquid Logic, Inc.
number: 09511369
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140409
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 676 384 filed on Jul. 9 2010 entitled Droplet Actuator with Improved Top Substrate the application of which is a national phase application of PCT US2008 075160 filed on Sep. 4 2008 entitled Droplet Actuator with Improved Top Substrate the application of which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 60 969 757 filed on Sep. 4 2007 entitled Improved Droplet Actuator Loading and U.S. Patent Application No. 60 980 785 filed on Oct. 18 2007 entitled Droplet Actuator with Improved Top Plate the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under NNJ06JD53C awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration of the United States. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to droplet actuation devices and in particular to specialized structures for conducting droplet operations.

Droplet actuators are used to conduct a wide variety of droplet operations. A droplet actuator typically includes two substrates separated by a gap. The substrates are associated with electrodes for conducting droplet operations. The gap includes a filler fluid that is immiscible with the fluid that is to be manipulated on the droplet actuator. The formation and movement of droplets in the gap is controlled by electrodes for conducting a variety of droplet operations such as droplet transport and droplet dispensing. At least one of the surfaces is typically made from a transparent material such as a glass top substrate. Among other things when glass is used adding features to the glass such as openings for loading fluid into the gap can be complex and expensive. There is a need for alternative droplet actuator structures that are easier and less expensive to manufacture while providing the same or better functionality as glass top substrates.

The invention provides a modified droplet actuator. The droplet actuator generally includes a base substrate and a top substrate separated to form a gap. One or both substrates but typically the base substrate includes electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations in the gap. The top substrate may include a first portion coupled to second portion where the second portion includes one or more openings establishing a fluid path extending from an exterior of the droplet actuator and into the gap.

The first portion may include a more uniformly planar surface exposed to the gap than the second portion. In some embodiments the first portion is more transparent than the second portion or the first portion is transparent and the second portion is not. In one embodiment the first portion is substantially transparent and the second portion is substantially opaque. In another embodiment the first portion harder than the second portion. In still another embodiment the first portion is more thermally stable than the second portion. In yet another embodiment the first portion is more resistant to damage caused by temperature fluctuation than the second portion.

The invention also provides a droplet actuator including a base substrate and a top substrate separated to form a gap wherein the base substrate includes electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations in the gap and the top substrate includes a glass portion coupled to a non glass portion where the non glass portion includes one or more openings establishing a fluid path extending from an exterior of the droplet actuator and into the gap. The non glass portion may in some embodiments include or be manufactured from a plastic or resin portion. In some cases the non glass portion includes a portion into which the glass portion is inserted.

The fluid path may be arranged to flow fluid into an actual or virtual reservoir associated with one or more reservoir electrodes associated with the base substrate. The fluid path may be arranged to flow fluid into proximity with one or more of the electrodes.

In some embodiments the glass portion does not include openings therein. In some embodiments the non glass portion overlaps the glass portion and an aperture is provided in the non glass portion for providing a sensing path from the gap through the glass portion through the aperture to an exterior of the droplet actuator. A fitting may be provided in association with the aperture for fitting a sensor onto the droplet actuator.

In some embodiments a handle is provided extending from the glass portion and arranged to facilitate user handling of the droplet actuator. In other embodiments the non glass portion further includes a hinged cover arranged to seal the openings when the hinged cover is in a closed position. The cover may include one or more dried reagents associated therewith such that when fluid is present in one or more of the openings and the cover is closed the dried reagents contact the fluid and are combined therewith to form fluid reagents.

In another embodiment the non glass portion overlaps the glass portion and one or more of the openings extends through the non glass portion through the glass portion and into the gap. In some embodiments the opening extending through the non glass portion is configured as a fluid reservoir.

The invention also provides a droplet actuator including a base substrate and a top substrate separated to form a gap wherein the a base substrate includes electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations in the gap and an opening forming a fluid path from an exterior of the droplet actuator into the gap and b the top includes a top substrate electrode arranged opposite the opening such that fluid flowing into the gap through the opening flows into proximity with the top substrate electrode.

The invention also includes methods of loading a fluid onto a droplet actuator. The methods generally include providing a droplet actuator of the invention and loading a fluid through the opening and into the gap.

The invention also includes methods of assembling a droplet actuator of the invention. The methods generally coupling the glass portion to the non glass portion of the top substrate and assembling the top substrate with the bottom substrate to form a gap therebetween suitable for conducting droplet operations.

Finally the invention includes methods of conducting a droplet operation. The methods generally include providing a droplet actuator of the invention loading a liquid onto the droplet actuator into proximity with one or more electrodes and using the one or more electrodes to conduct the droplet operation.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the ensuing detailed description of the invention.

 Activate with reference to one or more electrodes means effecting a change in the electrical state of the one or more electrodes which results in a droplet operation.

 Droplet means a volume of liquid on a droplet actuator that is at least partially bounded by filler fluid. For example a droplet may be completely surrounded by filler fluid or may be bounded by filler fluid and one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. Droplets may for example be aqueous or non aqueous or may be mixtures or emulsions including aqueous and non aqueous components. Droplets may take a wide variety of shapes nonlimiting examples include generally disc shaped slug shaped truncated sphere ellipsoid spherical partially compressed sphere hemispherical ovoid cylindrical and various shapes formed during droplet operations such as merging or splitting or formed as a result of contact of such shapes with one or more surfaces of a droplet actuator.

 Droplet Actuator means a device for manipulating droplets. For examples of droplets see U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 132 entitled Apparatus for Manipulating Droplets by Electrowetting Based Techniques issued on June 28 2005 to Pamula et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 343 284 entitled Apparatuses and Methods for Manipulating Droplets on a Printed Circuit Board filed on Jan. 30 2006 U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 566 entitled Electrostatic Actuators for Microfluidics and Methods for Using Same issued on Aug. 10 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 565 727 entitled Actuators for Microfluidics Without Moving Parts issued on Jan. 24 2000 both to Shenderov et al. Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Methods of the invention may be executed using droplet actuator systems e.g. as described in International Patent Application No. PCT US2007 009379 entitled Droplet manipulation systems filed on May 9 2007. In various embodiments the manipulation of droplets by a droplet actuator may be electrode mediated e.g. electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated.

 Droplet operation means any manipulation of a droplet on a droplet actuator. A droplet operation may for example include loading a droplet into the droplet actuator dispensing one or more droplets from a source droplet splitting separating or dividing a droplet into two or more droplets transporting a droplet from one location to another in any direction merging or combining two or more droplets into a single droplet diluting a droplet mixing a droplet agitating a droplet deforming a droplet retaining a droplet in position incubating a droplet heating a droplet vaporizing a droplet condensing a droplet from a vapor cooling a droplet disposing of a droplet transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator other droplet operations described herein and or any combination of the foregoing. The terms merge merging combine combining and the like are used to describe the creation of one droplet from two or more droplets. It should be understood that when such a term is used in reference to two or more droplets any combination of droplet operations sufficient to result in the combination of the two or more droplets into one droplet may be used. For example merging droplet A with droplet B can be achieved by transporting droplet A into contact with a stationary droplet B transporting droplet B into contact with a stationary droplet A or transporting droplets A and B into contact with each other. The terms splitting separating and dividing are not intended to imply any particular outcome with respect to size of the resulting droplets i.e. the size of the resulting droplets can be the same or different or number of resulting droplets the number of resulting droplets may be 2 3 4 5 or more . The term mixing refers to droplet operations which result in more homogenous distribution of one or more components within a droplet. Examples of loading droplet operations include microdialysis loading pressure assisted loading robotic loading passive loading and pipette loading. In various embodiments the droplet operations may be electrode mediated e.g. electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated.

 Filler fluid means a fluid associated with a droplet operations substrate of a droplet actuator which fluid is sufficiently immiscible with a droplet phase to render the droplet phase subject to electrode mediated droplet operations. The filler fluid may for example be a low viscosity oil such as silicone oil. Other examples of filler fluids are provided in International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 and in International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 072604 entitled Use of additives for enhancing droplet actuation filed on Aug. 8 2008.

The terms top and bottom when used e.g. to refer to the top and bottom substrates of the droplet actuator are used for convenience only the droplet actuator is generally functional regardless of its position in space.

The terms top and bottom are used throughout the description with reference to the top and bottom substrates of the droplet actuator for convenience only since the droplet actuator is functional regardless of its position in space.

When a liquid in any form e.g. a droplet or a continuous body whether moving or stationary is described as being on at or over an electrode array matrix or surface such liquid could be either in direct contact with the electrode array matrix surface or could be in contact with one or more layers or films that are interposed between the liquid and the electrode array matrix surface.

When a droplet is described as being on or loaded on a droplet actuator it should be understood that the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates using the droplet actuator to conduct one or more droplet operations on the droplet the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates sensing of a property of or a signal from the droplet and or the droplet has been subjected to a droplet operation on the droplet actuator.

The invention provides a droplet actuator with improved features for loading fluid into the gap. In certain embodiments the droplet actuator includes a top substrate that combines glass with one or more other materials that are easier to manufacture. Examples of such materials include resins and plastics. One such embodiment includes a top substrate including a glass substrate portion and a plastic portion. The glass substrate portion covers the droplet operations area of the droplet actuator providing a flat smooth surface for facilitating effective droplet operations. The plastic portion has one or more openings that provide a fluid path from an exterior locus into the gap of the droplet actuator. The fluid path facilitates loading of fluid into the gap of the droplet actuator. An alternative embodiment of the invention provides a droplet actuator with one or more openings in the bottom substrate or substrate. Various embodiments of the invention may reduce or eliminate the need to form openings in the glass portion of a droplet actuator avoiding a complex and costly manufacturing step. Still other embodiments avoid the use of glass altogether.

It should also be noted that in various embodiments the non glass portion may include multiple kinds of plastics rather than a glass non glass construction. For example in the various glass non glass embodiments one plastic may be substituted for the glass component and a second plastic may be used for the non glass components. This approach may be employed to among other things take advantage of different optical properties e.g. opaque for reservoirs clear over electrodes or over detection zones mechanical properties flat hard planar precise over electrodes cheap easy to mold or machine for fluid passages into reservoirs or thermal properties high T over electrodes for film deposition or PCR cheaper low T for wells surface properties and the like. In yet another alternative embodiment the glass portion may be replaced with or coated with a metal foil and a non glass material may be provided in regions where fluid passages into the droplet actuator are desired for ease of manufacture.

Droplet actuator includes a top substrate that combines a glass portion with a second material such as resin or plastic. In one embodiment the top substrate is formed of a glass substrate the perimeter of which is partially or completely surrounded by a non glass e.g. plastic or resin portion . The non glass portion includes one or more openings forming a fluid path from an exterior of the droplet actuator into the gap . In some embodiments one or more of the openings may provide a fluid path extending from the exterior of the droplet actuator into an actual or virtual reservoir associated with one or more reservoir electrodes . In other embodiments one or more of the openings may provide a fluid path that is not aligned with or associated with any electrode or with any specialized electrode such as a reservoir electrode.

Additionally droplet actuator includes a bottom substrate . The bottom substrate includes an associated arrangement of electrodes for performing droplet operations. Electrodes may for example be covered with a hydrophobic insulator to permit manipulation of the liquid by electrowetting. The bottom substrate may also include one or more reservoir electrodes for use in dispensing fluid from the reservoir. Bottom substrate may for example be made using printed circuit board PCB technology or semiconductor manufacturing technology. Top substrate and bottom substrate are separated from one another to form a gap for conducting droplet operations.

The area of glass substrate of top substrate may be selected to cover the active droplet manipulation area of droplet actuator . In one example the area of glass substrate may substantially cover the arrangement of electrodes . The locations of openings of non glass portion may correspond with locations of the one or more reservoir electrodes . In one embodiment one or more reservoir electrodes is positioned at the periphery of glass substrate for drawing a quantity of fluid through the openings into droplet actuator e.g. as shown in . In another embodiment one or more reservoir electrodes is positioned at the periphery of glass substrate and overlaps with glass substrate for drawing a quantity of fluid through the openings into droplet actuator . Non glass portion may be bonded to the periphery edges of glass substrate using adhesives or may be manufactured to permit glass substrate to be snugly fitted into place.

Glass substrate may be transparent. Ideally glass substrate is as thin as is practical for providing optimal droplet detection capabilities. Non glass portion may in some embodiments be opaque and may be substantially the same thickness or thicker than glass substrate . A thick non glass portion may facilitate including fluid reservoirs or wells associated with openings to contain a volume of fluid. Because openings are formed within non glass portion glass substrate may be manufactured without the need for forming openings therein. As a result the added cost and complexity of forming openings in a glass top substrate may be reduced preferably entirely avoided. By contrast the process for forming openings such as fluid reservoirs in a plastic structure such as non glass portion may be simple and inexpensive. In one embodiment the total amount of glass required in the device is minimized by only using glass where the flatness and optical qualities are required.

In one embodiment illustrates cross sectional view of a droplet actuator that includes a top substrate that is formed of a glass substrate and a non glass portion . Additionally droplet actuator includes a bottom substrate that has an associated arrangement of electrodes. Top substrate and bottom substrate are arranged to form a gap for conducting droplet operations. Glass substrate may be substantially the same as glass substrate of droplet actuator of . Similar to non glass portion of droplet actuator non glass portion may include one or more openings not shown and a clearance region that corresponds to the active droplet operations area of droplet actuator for fitting a glass substrate such as glass substrate therein. However differing from non glass portion of droplet actuator the cross section of non glass portion provides an L shaped structure which provides a side wall for surrounding the active droplet operations area of droplet actuator and which also provides a top surface to which glass substrate may abut. Additionally an arrangement of spacers are provided between glass substrate and bottom substrate in order to support glass substrate against non glass portion . When assembled glass substrate non glass portion and spacers define the gap of droplet actuator . The height of the walls of non glass portion and spacers correspond to a desired gap height.

In another embodiment illustrates a cross sectional view of a droplet actuator . droplet actuator is substantially the same as droplet actuator of except that top substrate is replaced by top substrate . Top substrate includes glass substrate of and a non glass portion . Integrated spacers which replace spacers of are provided as part of the structure of non glass portion . Additionally the integration of built in spacers within non glass portion forms a groove into which glass substrate may be installed. Again the height of built in spacers corresponds to a desired gap height.

In yet another embodiment illustrates a cross sectional view of a droplet actuator . droplet actuator is substantially the same as droplet actuator of except that top substrate is replaced by top substrate . Top substrate includes glass substrate of and a substrate . Substrate may formed with non glass portion including integrated spacers and groove . However substrate differs from non glass portion in that it does not include the opening. Instead when installed in groove glass substrate is fully covered by substrate . Again the height of built in spacers corresponds to a desired gap height.

Referring again to the assemblies may include other features such as tooling openings in both the glass and non glass portions of the top substrate. In one example the tooling openings may accommodate nuts and bolts for holding the assemblies together.

Glass substrate further includes one or more openings that correspond to one or more fluid reservoirs within non glass portion as shown in for the purpose of loading droplet actuator . This embodiment includes openings that are formed in both glass substrate and non glass portion which differs from the embodiments of .

In this embodiment because of the structural support that is provided by non glass portion the thickness of glass substrate may be minimized which allows the glass drilling process to be simplified. In order to facilitate easy loading or to provide reservoirs of larger fluid capacity fluid reservoirs of non glass portion may be larger than openings of glass substrate . Additionally the walls of fluid reservoirs of non glass portion may have any of a variety of configurations such as vertical walls or tapered e.g. to form a conical shape from a large opening to the smaller openings of glass substrate . Forming such shapes in glass would be difficult but is readily achieved using materials such as plastic or resins. Additionally non glass portion may be provided having any useful thickness thereby providing any useful fluid capacity via reservoirs .

In yet another embodiment any of the foregoing embodiments may replace the glass portion with a molded material such as a plastic or resin. Further any of the foregoing embodiments may be made as a single plastic or resin component rather than as glass non glass components.

In yet other embodiments the top substrate may include one or more optical elements formed therein. For example the optical element may include a lens and or a diffraction gradient. The optical element may be configured to redirect or otherwise modify light to or from a droplet fluid or surface of a droplet actuator. The optical element may be a modification in a surface of the top substrate or a coating adhered to or layered on a surface of the top substrate.

In one embodiment the invention provides a top or bottom substrate that includes optical surface patterning. The optical surface patterning may be provided in a glass or non glass portion of the top or bottom substrate. The top or bottom substrate may itself be glass or a combination of glass non glass. The optical surface patterning may for example introduce a diffractive optical element to the modified substrate. In one embodiment the diffractive optical element introduces surface features on the same order of magnitude as the wavelength of light micrometers or smaller used for detection purposes. The optical surface patterning may be selected so that diffractive effects dominate refractive effects. In this manner the microstructure of the optical surface patterning breaks up the light wave in a manner which produces interference patterns. The interference patterns can be evaluated to determine the shape of the output waveform.

In this example at least one opening is provided in the second substrate e.g. as shown in . Opening may serve as an inlet for loading the reservoir of droplet actuator . When droplet actuator is initially loaded with liquid the liquid body may not reach the extent of electrodes and therefore be manipulated by these electrodes owing to the fact that the electrodes and inlet are on the same side of substrate and that a certain amount of separation must be maintained between the edge of opening and the edge of electrode . This situation can be improved through the use of a reservoir electrode located on the opposite substrate and positioned to substantially align with opening . The geometry of reservoir electrode may overlap slightly with the electrodes that are on either side of opening of second substrate . Additionally reservoir electrode is electrically isolated from the ground not shown .

In operation droplet actuator may be held in an inverted orientation such as shown in and a quantity of fluid may be drawn into droplet actuator via opening within substrate by activating reservoir electrode to bring the liquid into the proximity of electrode . Once loaded reservoir electrode is deactivated and the fine control for performing droplet operations is performed via electrodes of substrate . The PCB embodiment of has the advantage of a low cost standard process for forming openings and also allows for high precision when forming openings.

The modified substrates of the invention may also be used to provide sample collection functionality to a droplet actuator cartridge. For example the top or bottom substrate may be associated with a syringe for sampling a liquid such as blood or water. The syringe collection chamber may itself serve as liquid reservoir on the top or bottom substrate of the droplet actuator. In this embodiment the top or bottom substrate includes or is associated with a fluid path from the gap between the substrate into the syringe collection chamber. Liquid from the collection chamber flows through the fluid path into proximity to one or more droplet operations electrodes where it can be subjected to one or more droplet operations. Other embodiments may include simple sample collection tubes or catheters for introducing liquid from an exterior source into a droplet actuator for analysis.

In another embodiment the droplet actuator may be configured to serve as a combination forensic sample collection tube and analysis cartridge. Microfluidic analysis can be performed either in the field e.g. at the point of sample collection or in a central lab. This configuration provides a quick test result while maintaining the bulk of the sample in pristine condition for further forensic testing. Follow up testing for evidentiary purposes can then be performed later on the same sample using conventional i.e. legally accepted techniques. In a related embodiment the droplet actuator includes a break away sample storage component so that the sample can be preserved in a more compact form.

For examples of fluids that may be subjected to the loading operations and droplet operations using the modified droplet actuators of the invention see the patents listed in International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006. In some embodiments the fluid includes a biological sample such as whole blood lymphatic fluid serum plasma sweat tear saliva sputum cerebrospinal fluid amniotic fluid seminal fluid vaginal excretion serous fluid synovial fluid pericardial fluid peritoneal fluid pleural fluid transudates exudates cystic fluid bile urine gastric fluid intestinal fluid fecal samples fluidized tissues fluidized organisms biological swabs and biological washes. In some embodiment the fluid includes a reagent such as water deionized water saline solutions acidic solutions basic solutions detergent solutions and or buffers. In other embodiments the fluid includes a reagent such as a reagent for a biochemical protocol such as a nucleic acid amplification protocol an affinity based assay protocol a sequencing protocol and or a protocol for analyses of biological fluids.

A method of making a droplet actuator that includes a combination glass non glass top substrate includes but is not limited to the steps of 1 forming a bottom substrate from for example a PCB that includes transport electrodes and also one or more reservoir electrodes at its periphery 2 forming a glass substrate the corresponds to the active electrowetting area of the bottom substrate of the droplet actuator 3 forming a non glass e.g. plastic or resin portion or substrate to which the glass substrate may be coupled and wherein the portion or substrate includes one or more fluid paths for introducing fluid into the gap 4 assembling the bottom substrate and top substrate one to another to form the gap. Loading may involve providing a quantity of fluid through the fluid path into the gap. Where the fluid being loaded is a sample or reagent the fluid may be loaded into proximity with an electrode so that droplet operations may be conducted using the fluid.

The foregoing detailed description of embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings which illustrate specific embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments having different structures and operations do not depart from the scope of the present invention. This specification is divided into sections for the convenience of the reader only. Headings should not be construed as limiting of the scope of the invention. The definitions are intended as a part of the description of the invention. It will be understood that various details of the present invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation as the present invention is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter.

