---

title: Systems and methods for indexing and searching reporting data
abstract: A data management system for indexing reporting data of a contact center is disclosed. The data management system includes one or more reporting systems configured to store the reporting data. The data management system further includes a crawler configured to collect the reporting data from the one or more reporting systems. The data management system further includes one or more plug-in interfaces configured to enable the crawler to retrieve the reporting data from the one or more reporting systems. The data management system further includes an indexing server configured to index and store the collected contact center reporting data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563678&OS=09563678&RS=09563678
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09563678
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140228
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 772 276 filed Mar. 4 2013 entitled CONTACT CENTER REPORTING INDEXING AND SEARCH which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a system and method for managing data of a contact center and particularly to a system and method for indexing and searching the data of the contact center.

Contact centers are employed by many enterprises to service inbound and outbound contacts from customers. A typical contact center includes a switch and or server to receive and route incoming packet switched and or circuit switched contacts and one or more resources such as human agents and automated resources e.g. Interactive Voice Response IVR units to service the incoming contacts or work items. Contact centers distribute contacts whether inbound or outbound for servicing to any suitable resource according to predefined criteria. In many existing systems the criteria for servicing the contact from the moment that the contact center becomes aware of the contact until the contact is connected to an agent are client or operator specifiable i.e. programmable by the operator of the contact center via a capability called vectoring. Normally in present day Automatic Call Distributions ACDs when the ACD system controller detects that an agent has become available to handle a contact the controller identifies all predefined contact handling queues for the agent usually in some order of priority and delivers to the agent the highest priority oldest contact that matches the agent s highest priority queue. Generally the only condition that results in a contact not being delivered to an available agent is that there are no contacts waiting to be handled.

The primary objective of contact center management is to ultimately maximize contact center performance and profitability. An ongoing challenge in contact center administration is monitoring and optimizing contact center efficiency. The contact center efficiency is generally measured in two ways that are service level and match rate.

Service level is one measurement of the contact center efficiency. Service level is typically determined by dividing the number of contacts accepted within the specified period by the number accepted plus the number that were not accepted but completed in some other way e.g. abandoned given busy canceled flowed out etc. . Of course service level definitions may vary from one enterprise to another.

Match rate is another indicator used in measuring the contact center efficiency. Match rate is usually determined by dividing the number of contacts accepted by a primary skill level agent within a period of time by the number of contacts accepted by any agent for a queue over the same period. An agent with a primary skill level is one that typically can handle contacts of a certain nature most effectively and or efficiently. There are other contact center agents that may not be as proficient as the primary skill level agent and those agents are identified either as secondary skill level agents or backup skill level agents. As can be appreciated contacts received by a primary skill level agent are typically handled more quickly and accurately or effectively e.g. higher revenue attained than a contact received by a secondary or even backup skill level agent. Thus it is an objective of most contact centers to optimize match rate along with service level.

In addition to service level and match rate performance measures contact centers use other Key Performance Index KPI such as revenue estimated actual or predicted wait time average speed of answer throughput agent utilization agent performance agent responsiveness and the like to calculate performance relative to their Service Level Agreements SLAs . Operational efficiency is achieved when KPI are managed near but not above SLA levels.

Throughput is a measure of the number of calls contact requests or work requests that can be processed in a given amount of time. Agent utilization is a measure of how efficiently agents time is being used. Customer service level is a measure of the time customers spend waiting for their work to be handled. Company contact center customers wish to provide service to as many requests as possible in a given amount of time using the least number of agents to do so and minimizing the wait time for their customers that can increase the service level agreement of the contact center.

Typically historical data or information of customers and agents their behavior workforce management etc. is stored in different data repositories or databases in the contact center. Further vendors of the contact center do not provide a technique to store all the data in a single data repository. However an agent of the contact center may have to access multiple data repositories to retrieve the data for providing services to customers. Further in conventional databases the data is stored in tables that include columns with restricted character length of business names of entities such as ACD calls hold ACD time and so forth and an agent is not allowed to create columns with long names in the databases as per the convenience. Also if the agent is not an expert or is not familiar with business definitions or textual descriptions of the entities he may have to search files or documents of probably 1000 pages to look for the definition of the entities. Further a manager or supervisor of the contact center may have to run a full report that includes data of all the agents of the contact center to search for a best agent on a particular day. A best agent is one that typically can handle maximum number of contacts in a day. However such techniques are time consuming and may also increase hold time of a call that may further affect the contact center efficiency. Furthermore the agent may not be able to access all the relevant data from the different databases to provide satisfactory services to the customers.

There is thus a need for a system and method for indexing and storing the historical data and further enables the agent of the contact center to access the data in a faster way.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention provide a data management system for indexing reporting data of a contact center. The data management system includes one or more reporting systems configured to store the reporting data. The data management system further includes a crawler configured to collect the reporting data from the one or more reporting systems. The data management system further includes one or more plug in interfaces configured to enable the crawler to retrieve the reporting data from the one or more reporting systems. The data management system further includes an indexing server configured to index and store the collected contact center reporting data.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention further provide a computer implemented method for indexing reporting data of a contact center. The computer implemented method includes retrieving one or more connection details and one or more lists of reporting systems from a configuration database collecting by a crawler the reporting data at predefined intervals from the one or more lists of reporting systems and storing the collected reporting data into an indexing server wherein the collected reporting data is stored along with one or more dictionary items.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention further provide a computer implemented method for searching reporting data of a contact center. The method includes receiving one or more search queries from a user segmenting the one or more search queries into a plurality of different phrases matching the plurality of different phrases with one or more dictionary items performing one or more lookups on a plurality of indexes based on the one or more search queries received from the user and displaying one or more search query results to the user.

The present invention can provide a number of advantages depending on its particular configuration. First the present invention provides indexing of historical reporting data of the contact center. The indexing of the reporting data may help a user to access the reporting data from multiple reporting systems or databases in a faster way. Further the present invention enables the user to access all the relevant reporting data related to customers and agent s behavior call recordings of customers workforce management etc. stored in the multiple reporting systems in a convenient way. Also the present invention retrieves the reporting data in a form as it is stored in the reporting system. For example if a reporting system stores a table with 50 different callers then the present invention retrieves structure of the table as it is from the reporting system. Further the present invention indexes the reporting data and stores it in multiple indexes of an indexing server so that an agent of the contact center may easily access the data.

Further the reporting data retrieved from the reporting system is stored in the indexing server by combining the reporting data with dictionary items of a dictionary database. The dictionary items may include business definitions of reporting entities e.g. ACD calls ACD abandoned calls etc. . For example if a manager triggers a query for an agent having more than 50 calls then the present invention performs lookup for a statistical value that is bigger from a mathematical perspective than the statistical value of the search query i.e. 50. The present invention also provides additional information such as textual description of the reporting entities to the agents of the contact center along with search query results.

These and other advantages will be apparent from the disclosure of the present invention s contained herein.

The preceding is a simplified summary of the present invention to provide an understanding of some aspects of the present invention. This summary is neither an extensive nor exhaustive overview of the present invention and its various embodiments. It is intended neither to identify key or critical elements of the present invention nor to delineate the scope of the present invention but to present selected concepts of the present invention in a simplified form as an introduction to the more detailed description presented below. As will be appreciated other embodiments of the present invention are possible utilizing alone or in combination one or more of the features set forth above or described in detail below.

The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to. To facilitate understanding like reference numerals have been used where possible to designate like elements common to the figures.

The present invention will be illustrated below in conjunction with an exemplary communication system e.g. the Avaya Aura system. Although well suited for use with e.g. a system having an Automatic Call Distribution ACD or other similar contact processing switch the present invention is not limited to any particular type of communication system switch or configuration of system elements. Those skilled in the art will recognize the disclosed techniques may be used in any communication application in which it is desirable to provide improved contact processing.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage and or transmission medium that participate in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

A digital file attachment to e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the present invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium or distribution medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the present invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated those individual aspects of the present invention can be separately claimed.

The term switch or server as used herein should be understood to include a Private Branch Exchange PBX an ACD an enterprise switch or other type of communications system switch or server as well as other types of processor based communication control devices such as media servers computers adjuncts etc.

Although the preferred embodiment is discussed with reference to client server architecture it is to be understood that the principles of the present invention apply to other network architectures. For example the present invention applies to peer to peer networks such as those envisioned by the Session Initiation Protocol SIP . In the client server model or paradigm network services and the programs used by end users to access the services are described. The client side provides a user with an interface for requesting services from the network and the server side is responsible for accepting user requests or search queries for services and providing the services transparent to the user. By contrast in the peer to peer model or paradigm each networked host runs both the client and server parts of an application program. Additionally the present invention does not require the presence of packet or circuit switched networks.

The switch and or server may be any architecture for directing contacts to one or more communication devices. In some embodiments of the present invention the switch may perform load balancing functions by allocating incoming or outgoing contacts among a plurality of logically and or geographically distinct contact centers. Illustratively the switch and or server may be a modified form of the subscriber premises equipment sold by Avaya Inc. under the names Definity Private Branch Exchange PBX based ACD system MultiVantage PBX Communication Manager S8300 media server and any other media servers SIP Enabled Services Intelligent Presence Server and or Avaya Interaction Center and any other products or solutions offered by Avaya or another company. Typically the switch server is a stored program controlled system that conventionally includes interfaces to external communication links a communications switching fabric service circuits e.g. tone generators announcement circuits etc. memory for storing control programs and data and a processor i.e. a computer for executing the stored control programs to control the interfaces and the fabric and to provide ACD functionality. Other types of known switches and servers are well known in the art and therefore not described in detail herein.

The first communication devices N are packet switched and may include for example IP hardphones such as the Avaya Inc. s 4600 Series IP Phones IP softphones such as Avaya Inc. s IP Softphone Personal Digital Assistants PDAs Personal Computers PCs laptops packet based H.320 video phones and conferencing units packet based voice messaging and response units packet based traditional computer telephony adjuncts peer to peer based communication devices and any other communication device.

The second communication devices M are circuit switched. Each of the communication devices M corresponds to one of a set of internal extensions Ext M respectively. The second communication devices M may include for example wired and wireless telephones PDAs H.320 videophones and conferencing units voice messaging and response units traditional computer telephony adjuncts and any other communication device.

It should be noted that the present invention does not require any particular type of information transport medium between switch or server and first and second communication devices i.e. the present invention may be implemented with any desired type of transport medium as well as combinations of different types of transport channels. In an embodiment of the present invention a communication network may also be a cloud based network.

The packet switched network may be any data and or distributed processing network such as the Internet. The packet switched network typically includes proxies not shown registrars not shown and routers not shown for managing packet flows.

The packet switched network as shown in is in communication with a first communication device via a security gateway and the circuit switched network with an external second communication device .

In a preferred configuration the server the packet switched network and the first communication devices N are Session Initiation Protocol SIP compatible and can include interfaces for various other protocols such as the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP H.248 H.323 Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Internet Message Access Protocol 4 IMAP4 Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN E1 T1 and analog line or trunk.

It should be emphasized that the configuration of the switch the server user communication devices and other elements as shown in is for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting the present invention to any particular arrangement of elements.

As will be appreciated the server is notified via the LAN of an incoming work item by the communications component e.g. the switch fax server email server Web Server and or other server receiving the incoming work item as shown in . The incoming work item is held by the receiving telecommunications component until the server forwards instructions to the component to forward or route the contact to a specific contact center resource such as the IVR unit the voice mail server and or first or second telecommunication devices N M associated with a selected agent. The server distributes and connects these work items to telecommunication devices of available agents based on the predetermined criteria noted above. When the server forwards a voice contact or first work item to an agent the server also forwards customer related information from the contact center reporting systems or database to the agent s computer work station for viewing such as by a pop up display to permit the agent to better serve the customer to achieve desired business goals e.g. an average revenue a customer satisfaction CSAT a service level agreement etc. of the contact center. Depending on the contact center configuration and current status of the business goals the server may reallocate the work items to the agents. The agents process the work items or contacts sent to them by the server . This embodiment is particularly suited for a Customer Relationship Management CRM environment in which customers are permitted to use any media to contact a business. In a CRM environment both real time and non real time contacts must be handled and distributed with equal efficiency and effectiveness.

The crawler is configured to automatically and repeatedly crawl in a Local Area Network LAN or Wide Area Network WAN environment that includes the plurality of contact center reporting systems N. In an embodiment of the present invention the LAN and WAN environment may be a contact center environment. Further the crawler is configured to access the contact center reporting systems N at predefined intervals for collecting the reporting data of the contact center. The predefined intervals may include but is not restricted to an intraday interval a daily interval a weekly interval and a monthly interval. In the intra daily interval the reporting data is retrieved periodically from the contact center reporting systems N at predefined time interval for example 1 minute 15 minutes 30 minutes and so forth. In the daily interval the reporting data is retrieved once a day and includes a single record for the day the customer report on. Next in the weekly interval the reporting data is retrieved once a week from the contact center reporting systems . Further in the monthly interval the reporting data is retrieved once a month from the contact center reporting systems N. The predefined intervals may be configured by a user and the configuration of the user is then stored in the configuration database . In an embodiment of the present invention the user may be an agent a supervisor or a manager of the contact center.

The configuration database may also include connection details of the contact center reporting systems N. In an embodiment of the present invention the connection details may include but is not restricted to an Internet Protocol address IP address a hostname communication protocols usernames and passwords for authenticating with the contact center reporting systems and so forth. The crawler retrieves the connection details of the reporting systems from the configuration database . In an embodiment of the present invention the crawler may retrieve the reporting data from the reporting systems N at the predefined intervals by using the connection details of the reporting systems N.

Further the crawler uses the plurality of database plug in interfaces for retrieving the reporting data from the contact center reporting systems N in an embodiment of the present invention. For example the crawler may use a database plug in interface to a Microsoft Structured Query language MSSQL database a database plug in interface to an ORACLE database and so forth. The plurality of database plug in interfaces are configured to connect communication links from the crawler to the reporting systems for retrieving the reporting data. For example if the reporting system N stores a table with data for 50 different callers then the database plug in interface retrieves the structure of the table as stored in the contact center reporting systems N and transmits it to the crawler .

In another embodiment of the present invention the crawler is configured to connect with the reporting systems N. The crawler retrieves the reporting data of the contact center from the reporting systems N and stores the reporting data into an indexing server . The indexing server receives the reporting data from the crawler and stores the reporting data in a memory index of the indexing server . For example if a database table having information of 50 callers is stored in a memory index of the indexing server the data management system enables the user to access the reporting data in a much faster way.

In an embodiment of the present invention the indexing server combines the reporting data together with dictionary items of a dictionary database . The dictionary items may include business definitions of reporting entities in an embodiment of the present invention. The reporting entities may include but is not restricted to element types e.g. agent skill etc. index type e.g. intraday daily weekly or monthly reporting statistics e.g. ACD calls ACD abandoned calls etc. time stamps e.g. date and time and mathematical operators e.g. bigger than smaller than etc. . In an embodiment of the present invention the dictionary database may get updated at predefined time interval that is configured based on predefined configurations of a user.

Further if the user adds a new column for a reporting statistics e.g. ACD calls in the contact center reporting systems N then the dictionary database may automatically add a column with a textual description of the reporting statistics. In an embodiment of the present invention the textual description of the reporting statistics may be modified based on the user needs.

In conventional databases the reporting data is stored in columns and every column has a name. Typically a column name is restricted to a predefined character length such as 10 as the conventional databases do not allow a user to create columns with names more than the predefined character length. Also if an agent of the contact center is not an expert or is familiar with business definitions of all the reporting entities and then the agent has to search for the business definitions of the reporting entities in a file or a document that may include thousands of pages that explain in detail the business definitions of the reporting entities. For example in conventional systems an agent searches for a business definition of a reporting entity hold ACD time in a database e.g. dictionary database that provides a business definition of the hold ACD time as the number of seconds a customer call was put on hold if the customer call arrived from the ACD and an agent moves to another customer ACD based call.

In the present invention the indexing server indexes this textual description and creates a business name that may explain the meaning of the reporting entities. For example the indexing server indexes the textual description of the hold ACD time and creates a business name such as time customer was on hold . In an embodiment of the present invention the business name is then stored as a dictionary data or item in the dictionary database together with the reporting data of the contact center. In another embodiment of the present invention the dictionary items may also include English words of a dictionary.

The data management system further includes a user interface and a third party system . In an embodiment of the present invention the agent of the contact center trigger search queries by using the user interface . In an embodiment of the present invention the search query may be a Structured Query Language SQL query. In another embodiment of the invention the query may be formed in other query languages but not limited to SQL Java Persistence Query Language JPQL or Query By Example QBE .

The search query of the user is then passed to a search Application Programming Interface API that is configured to search for an index logic and access different indexes that are created by the indexing server . In an embodiment of the present invention the search API breaks the user s search query into different words or phrases and then matches the phrases with relevant statistical column from the reporting systems N that includes the reporting data. The accessed reporting data is then displayed to the user on the user interface as a search result.

The agent daily index may index and store contact center reporting data that is gathered in a daily interval in an embodiment of the present invention. Further the agent daily index may include reporting data from the contact center reporting systems for each day e.g. Monday Tuesday Wednesday and so forth . In another embodiment of the present invention the agent daily index may also include information about agents of the contact center received from the contact center reporting systems . The information of the agents may include but is not restricted to agent name phone number address and so forth.

Further the agent weekly index may index and store contact center reporting data that is gathered in an interval of a week in another embodiment of the present invention. Further the agent weekly index may include reporting data from the contact center reporting systems for each week. In another embodiment of the present invention the agent weekly index may also include information about agents of the contact center received from the contact center dictionary . The information of the agents may include but is not restricted to agent name phone number address and so forth.

In another embodiment of the present invention the agent monthly index may index and store contact center reporting data that is gathered in an interval of a month. Further the agent monthly index may include reporting data from the contact center reporting systems for each month e.g. January February March and so forth . In another embodiment of the present invention the agent monthly index may also include information about the agents of the contact center received from the contact center reporting systems . The information of the agent may include but is not restricted to agent name phone number address and so forth. Similarly the indexing server may index tables for other reporting element types e.g. skills routing point etc. . Therefore each column of the reporting systems is translated into a business definition that can be searched very quickly and easily.

In another embodiment of the present invention the indexing server matches one or more contact center reporting entities such as an agent or a skill with one or more dictionary items and its synonyms as shown in . For example a contact center reporting entity such as an agent is mapped with one or more dictionary items such as an agent a user or an agent ID. Similarly a contact center reporting entity such as skill of an agent is matched with one or more dictionary items such as a skill a hunt or a capability.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the indexing server matches one or more mathematical operators for example is matched with a dictionary item bigger than or with its synonym big and another mathematical operator 

Traditionally if a manager of a contact center desires to search for a best agent one who answers most of the calls on Sunday he needs to export and run a report having information of all the agents of the contact center and then sort out the information in order to see the best agent of the contact center. In an embodiment of the present invention the indexing server indexes the reporting data with the dictionary items and searches for an agent that answered maximum number of calls on a day i.e. Sunday as the data management system knows what day is today and then calculates a time stamp to display a result based on the search query.

The indexing server then performs one or more lookups in different indexes of the indexing server in order to retrieve relevant results. In this case the search API may perform the lookup for each of the phrases in the indexes of the indexing server . The search API may perform the lookup for the phrase Agent in the index having a contact center reporting entity for example agent daily index then inside the agent daily index the phrase daily is searched. A statistic of the phrase ACD calls is searched in the column of the agent daily index and the phrase Today is matched to today s time stamp date and time and data with number of calls bigger than 100 are filtered. The phrase Mike Lewis is a name of an agent whose data is to be retrieved and therefore the phrase is then displayed as it is in a search result.

Therefore the search result may be displayed on the user interface that may display the result in an order such as 

By using the above mentioned order the user interface may show a full statistical description from the dictionary database for example the result may be displayed as 

First row of the search result may be a highest matching record and second row of the search result may display additional statistics from the same time stamp for the agent i.e. business definition of the reporting statistic ACD calls .

At step a data management system retrieves a list of contact center reporting systems from a configuration database in an embodiment of the present invention. The list of the contact center reporting systems may include a list of plurality of contact center systems from which reporting data is to be retrieved. In an embodiment of the present invention the reporting data may include but is not restricted to historical data of the contact center that may be a static data. The plurality of contact center reporting systems may include reporting data such as but is not restricted to information related to customers agent s behavior call recordings workforce management and so forth.

In another embodiment of the present invention the data management system may retrieve one or more connection details of the reporting systems from the configuration database. The connection details may include but is not restricted to an Internet Protocol address IP address hostnames communication protocols input output ports usernames and passwords. In an embodiment of the present invention the crawler is configured to retrieve the connection details and list of contact center reporting systems from the configuration database.

At step the data management system enables the crawler to connect with the plurality of reporting systems of the contact center in an embodiment of the present invention. The data management system uses a plurality of database plug in interfaces to connect the crawler of the data management system to the plurality of reporting systems for retrieving the historical reporting data. The plurality of database plug in interfaces may include but is not restricted to a database plug in interface to a Microsoft Structured Query Language MSSQL database a database plug in interface to an ORACLE database and so forth. For example if the reporting system stores a table with data of 50 different callers then the database plug in interfaces for retrieving structure of the table as it is from the reporting system and transmits it to the crawler of the reporting data index system.

At step the data management system collects the reporting data from the plurality of contact center reporting systems at predefined interval in an embodiment of the present invention. The predefined intervals may include but is not restricted to an intra daily interval a daily interval a weekly interval and a monthly interval. In the intra daily interval the reporting data is retrieved periodically from the reporting system at predefined time interval for example 1 minute 15 minutes 30 minutes and so forth. In the daily interval the reporting data is retrieved once a day and includes a single record for the day the customer report on. Next in the weekly interval the reporting data is retrieved once a week from the contact center reporting systems. Further in the monthly interval the reporting data is retrieved once a month from the contact center reporting systems. In another embodiment of the present invention the data management system may collect the reporting data from the contact center reporting systems that are included in the list of the contact center reporting systems retrieved from the configuration database.

At step the data management system stores the collected contact center reporting data into an indexing server in an embodiment of the present invention. The indexing server receives the contact center reporting data from the crawler and at the end of a day stores the contact center reporting data in a memory index of the indexing server. For example if a database table having information of 50 callers is stored in a memory index of the indexing server the data management system provides an ability to the user to access the reporting data in a much faster way.

At step the data management system combines the collected reporting data together with one or more dictionary items of a dictionary database in an embodiment of the present invention. The dictionary database may include but is not restricted to business definitions of reporting entities in an embodiment of the present invention. The reporting entities may include but is not restricted to element types e.g. agent skill etc. index type e.g. intraday daily weekly or monthly reporting statistics e.g. ACD calls ACD abandoned calls etc. time stamps e.g. date and time and mathematical operators e.g. bigger than smaller than etc. . In another embodiment of the present invention the dictionary database may get updated at predefined time interval that is configured based on predefined configurations of a user.

At step a data management system receives a search query from a user in an embodiment of the present invention. The user may be an agent or a supervisor of the contact center in an embodiment of the present invention. The user triggers a search query using a user interface or third party systems for example get agent Mike Lewis daily ACD calls bigger than 100 today. In an embodiment of the present invention the search query may be a SQL query. In another embodiment of the invention the query may be formed in other query languages but is not limited to SQL Java Persistence Query Language JPQL or Query By Example QBE .

At step the data management system segments the user search query into different words or phrases in an embodiment of the present invention. The user search query agent Mike Lewis daily ACD calls bigger than 100 today is segmented into different phrases and may include different phrases such as Agent Mike Lewis Daily ACD calls bigger than 100 today. Further the data management system describes the roles of each of the phrases by using the dictionary database. For example the phrase Agent is a contact center reporting entity type the phrase daily is matched to a daily index type the phrase ACD calls is matched to ACD calls reporting statistics type the phrase today is matched to a time stamp and the phrase bigger than is mapped to a mathematical operator .

At step the data management system determines whether each of the phrases of the search query is matched with the dictionary items. In an embodiment of the present invention the dictionary items may include business names of the reporting entities that are stored in the dictionary database. In another embodiment of the present invention the dictionary items may include English words of a dictionary. When it is determined that each phrase is matched with the dictionary items the method proceeds towards step . When any of the phrase does not match with the dictionary items the method proceeds towards step .

At step the data management system may display the phrase that does not match with the dictionary items as it is with a search query result. For example the phrase Mike Lewis is a name of an agent whose data is to be retrieved. Therefore this phrase may be displayed as it is in a search result.

At step the data management system performs lookup for each of the phrases across a plurality of indexes of the indexing server in an embodiment of the present invention. The data management system may perform lookup for the phrase Agent in an agent index having reporting data for a contact center reporting entity agent and then inside the agent daily index the phrase daily is searched. Then the data management system may perform lookup for a reporting statistic of the phrase ACD calls in the agent daily index and the reporting data of the phrase Today is matched with a time stamp date and time and reporting data with number of calls bigger than 100 are filtered.

At step the data management system displays the search query result to the user. In an embodiment of the present invention the search query result is displayed in the user interface of the data management system . The search result may be displayed in an order for example 

By using the above mentioned order the user interface may show a full statistical description from the dictionary database as for example 

In an embodiment of the present invention first row of the search result may be a highest matching record and second row of the search result may display additional statistics from the same time stamp for the agent i.e. business definition of the reporting statistic ACD calls .

The exemplary systems and methods of this present invention have been described in relation to a contact center. However to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention the preceding description omits a number of known structures and devices. This omission is not to be construed as a limitation of the scope of the present invention. Specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of the present invention. It should however be appreciated that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific detail set forth herein.

Furthermore while the exemplary embodiments of the present invention illustrated herein show the various components of the system collocated certain components of the system can be located remotely at distant portions of a distributed network such as a LAN and or the Internet or within a dedicated system. Thus it should be appreciated that the components of the system can be combined in to one or more devices such as a switch server and or adjunct or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network such as an analog and or digital telecommunications network a packet switch network or a circuit switched network.

It will be appreciated from the preceding description and for reasons of computational efficiency that the components of the system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network of components without affecting the operation of the system. For example the various components can be located in a switch such as a PBX and media server gateway in one or more communications devices at one or more users premises or some combination thereof. Similarly one or more functional portions of the system could be distributed between a telecommunications device s and an associated computing device.

Furthermore it should be appreciated the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links or any combination thereof or any other known or later developed element s that is capable of supplying and or communicating data to and from the connected elements. These wired or wireless links can also be secure links and may be capable of communicating encrypted information. Transmission media used as links for example can be any suitable carrier for electrical signals including coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics and may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Also while the flowcharts have been discussed and illustrated in relation to a particular sequence of events it should be appreciated that changes additions and omissions to this sequence can occur without materially affecting the operation of the present invention.

A number of variations and modifications of the present invention can be used. It would be possible to provide for some features of the present invention without providing others.

For example in one alternative embodiment of the present invention the systems and methods of this present invention can be implemented in conjunction with a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element s an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hard wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit a programmable logic device or gate array such as PLD PLA FPGA PAL special purpose computer any comparable means or the like.

In general any device s or means capable of implementing the methodology illustrated herein can be used to implement the various aspects of this present invention. Exemplary hardware that can be used for the present invention includes computers handheld devices telephones e.g. cellular Internet enabled digital analog hybrids and others and other hardware known in the art. Some of these devices include processors e.g. a single or multiple microprocessors memory non volatile storage input devices and output devices. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in conjunction with software using object or object oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively the disclosed system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this present invention is dependent on the speed and or efficiency requirements of the system the particular function and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the disclosed methods may be partially implemented in software that can be stored on a storage medium executed on programmed general purpose computer with the cooperation of a controller and memory a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In these instances the systems and methods of this present invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as an applet JAVA or CGI script as a resource residing on a server or computer workstation as a routine embedded in a dedicated measurement system system component or the like. The system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and or method into a software and or hardware system.

Although the present invention describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the present invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. Other similar standards and protocols not mentioned herein are in existence and are considered to be included in the present invention. Moreover the standards and protocols mentioned herein and other similar standards and protocols not mentioned herein are periodically superseded by faster or more effective equivalents having essentially the same functions. Such replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are considered equivalents included in the present invention.

The present invention in various embodiments configurations and aspects includes components methods processes systems and or apparatus substantially as depicted and described herein including various embodiments sub combinations and subsets thereof. Those of skill in the art will understand how to make and use the present invention after understanding the present disclosure. The present invention in various embodiments configurations and aspects includes providing devices and processes in the absence of items not depicted and or described herein or in various embodiments configurations or aspects hereof including in the absence of such items as may have been used in previous devices or processes e.g. for improving performance achieving ease and or reducing cost of implementation.

The foregoing discussion of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. The foregoing is not intended to limit the present invention to the form or forms disclosed herein. In the foregoing Detailed Description for example various features of the present invention are grouped together in one or more embodiments configurations or aspects for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. The features of the embodiments configurations or aspects of the present invention may be combined in alternate embodiments configurations or aspects other than those discussed above. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the present invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment configuration or aspect. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment of the present invention.

Moreover though the description of the present invention has included description of one or more embodiments configurations or aspects and certain variations and modifications other variations combinations and modifications are within the scope of the present invention e.g. as may be within the skill and knowledge of those in the art after understanding the present disclosure. It is intended to obtain rights which include alternative embodiments configurations or aspects to the extent permitted including alternate interchangeable and or equivalent structures functions ranges or steps to those claimed whether or not such alternate interchangeable and or equivalent structures functions ranges or steps are disclosed herein and without intending to publicly dedicate any patentable subject matter.

