---

title: Secure communication architecture including video sniffer
abstract: Secure communication of user inputs is achieved by isolating part of an endpoint device such that certificates and encryption keys are protected from corruption by malware. Further, the communication is passed through a trusted data relay that is configured to decrypt and/or certify the user inputs encrypted by the isolated part of the endpoint device. The trusted data relay can determine that the user inputs were encrypted or certified by the protected certificates and encryption keys, thus authenticating their origin within the endpoint device. The trusted data relay then forwards the inputs to an intended destination. In some embodiments, the isolated part of the endpoint device is configured to detect input created by auto-completion logic and/or spell checking logic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454677&OS=09454677&RS=09454677
owner: Truedata Systems, Inc.
number: 09454677
owner_city: Atherton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141114
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 055 706 filed Oct. 16 2013 which in turn claims benefit of and priority to provisional patent applications Ser. No. 61 714 629 filed Oct. 16 2012 Ser. No. 61 841 671 filed Jul. 1 2013 and 61 867 293 filed Aug. 19 2013 this application also claims benefit and priority to provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 904 456 filed Nov. 14 2013 and this application is a continuation in part of PCT application PCT US13 65323 filed Oct. 16 2013. All the above patent applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Computer security has become more difficult since the rise of the internet. Threats include financial fraud information theft and espionage. Once on a computing system malware can operate in stealth monitoring and stealing passwords and security information. Such malware is not only found on traditional computer systems but also mobile devices such as cell phones and tablets.

The security of a computing device is enhanced by logically isolating a part of the device such that it cannot be corrupted by malware and using the isolated part to encrypt and or certify user inputs. In some embodiments the isolated part functions as a bridge between a user input device and the rest of the computing device. The bridge can receive inputs directly from the user input device or can monitor the flow of data within the computing device to detect inputs.

In some embodiments the bridge is configured to encrypt user input using a protected key. The encrypted input is sent to an external trusted data relay where it is decrypted and relayed to a third party destination. The key may be a public key or a key that is protected by the physical architecture of the computing device. For example the computing device is optionally configured such that the contents logic and keys etc. of the bridge can only be accessed or modified once. In some embodiments an encryption key installed by the manufacturer or distributor of the computing device cannot be changed or read outside of the bridge. As such malware on the computing device cannot corrupt the functions of the bridge or use the correct key to encrypt data outside of the bridge.

In some embodiments the bridge is configured to certify user input using a certificate. The certificate is used to digitally sign the user input such that any modification of the user input is easily detected. The certified input is sent to a trusted data relay where it is authenticated e.g. verified and relayed to a third party destination. The certificate is optionally protected by the physical architecture of the computing device. For example the computing device may be configured such that the contents logic certificates and keys etc. of the bridge can only be accessed or modified once. Optionally a certificate installed by the manufacturer or distributor of the computing device cannot be changed or read outside of the bridge. As such malware on the computing device cannot corrupt the functions of the bridge.

The trusted data relay is configured to decrypt and or authenticate received input data. This process serves to assure the input data as coming from the computing device and has not been corrupted on the computing device. The decrypted and or authenticated data is then forwarded to a third party destination such as an online store or financial institution. The trusted data relay is configured to store decryption keys validation keys computing device identifiers user account information and the like for a plurality of computing devices and accounts. For each computing device there may be several accounts approved for access by that device.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computing system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive an input from a user a display configured to display the input a bus configured to communicate the input to the display a processing unit configured to process data and commands received via the bus an input capture module isolated from a less secure part of the computing system the isolation configured to prevent corruption of the input capture module by computing instructions received from outside of the input capture module the input capture module comprising storage configured to store an encryption key or certificate such that the encryption key or certificate cannot be read from outside the input capture module a data input configured to receive data resulting from the input apparatus the input module optionally being disposed between the input apparatus and the less secure part of the computing system such that input at the input apparatus goes through the capture module prior to being received by the less secure part and logic configured to encrypt or certify the data resulting from the input apparatus the encryption or certification using the encryption key or certificate and occurring within the input capture module and communication logic configured to communicate an output of the logic to a communication network.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computing system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive an input from a user a display configured to display the input a processing unit configured to process commands received from the user an input capture module isolated from a less secure part of the computing system the isolation configured to prevent corruption of the input capture module by computing instructions from outside of the input capture module the input capture module comprising storage configured to store a plurality of encryption keys and or certificates means for capturing data from the less secure part of the computing system a flag input configured to select from among the plurality of encryption keys and or certificates and logic configured to encrypt or certify the captured data the encryption or certification using the selected encryption key or certificate and occurring within the input capture module and communication logic configured to communicate the encrypted or certified data to a communication network.

Various embodiments of the invention include an endpoint system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive input from a user and including an input buffer the input buffer being configured to store the received input a processor configured to receive input via the input apparatus and to execute software applications on the endpoint system a bus configured to communicate the input from the input buffer to a storage accessible to the processor and a sniffer configured to detect the input as it is communicated on the bus from the input buffer the input as detected by the sniffer being unalterable by the processor prior to the detection.

Various embodiments of the invention include an endpoint system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive input from a user and including an input buffer the input buffer being configured to store the received input a processor configured to receive user input via the input apparatus a bus configured to communicate the input from the input buffer to a storage accessible to the processor and a capture module configured to detect the input such that the input detected is assured to be a true copy of the input as received from the user.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computing system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive an input from a user a display configured to display the input from the user a bus configured to communicate the input to the display a processing unit configured to process data and commands received via the bus an input capture module isolated from a less secure part of the computing system the isolation configured to prevent corruption of the input capture module by computing instructions received from outside of the input capture module the input capture module comprising storage configured to store an encryption key or certificate a sniffer configured to sniff the bus for input data resulting from the input from the user and logic configured to encrypt or certify the input data the encryption or certification occurring within the input capture module and communication logic configured to communicate an output of the input capture module to a communication network.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computing system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive an input from a user a display configured to display the input from the user a bus configured to communicate the input to the display a processing unit configured to process the input an input capture module isolated from a less secure part of the computing system the isolation configured to prevent corruption of the input capture module by computing instructions received from outside of the input capture module the input capture module comprising storage configured to store an encryption key or a certificate a sniffer configured to sniff the bus for video data character recognition logic configured to identify input data within the video data the input data resulting from the input from the user and logic configured to encrypt or certify the input data identified by the character recognition logic and communication logic configured to communicate an output of the logic to a communication network.

Various embodiments of the invention include an endpoint system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive input from a user and including an input buffer the input buffer being configured to store the received input a processor configured to receive the input via the input apparatus a bus configured to communicate the input from the input buffer to a storage accessible to the processor and a sniffer configured to detect the input as it is communicated on the bus from the input buffer to the storage the detection occurring prior to the input being modifiable by the processor.

Various embodiments of the invention include a secure communication system comprising an input configured to receive at least partially encrypted data from an endpoint system the at least partially encrypted data including an identifier of the endpoint system a key storage including decryption keys stored in association with device identifiers decryption authentication logic configured to decrypt the at least partially encrypted data to a decrypted output using a decryption key retrieved from the key storage the retrieval using the identifier of the endpoint system a remote service connector configured to forward the decrypted input to a remote computing system and to receive a communication from the remote computing system the received communication being in response to the forwarded decrypted output and an endpoint connector configured to forward the received communication from the remote computing system to a less secure part of the endpoint system.

Various embodiments of the invention include a secure communication system comprising a first I O configured to receive at least partially encrypted or at least partially certified data from a secure portion of a computing system the at least partially encrypted or certified data including an identifier of the computing device and including a user input to the computing system a storage including decryption keys or certification data stored in association with device identifiers encryption authentication logic configured to decrypt or authenticate the at least partially encrypted or certified data using a decryption key or certification data retrieved from the storage the retrieval using the identifier of the computing system and a second I O configured to forward the decrypted input to a remote computing system.

Various embodiments of the invention include a method of communicating secure data the method comprising displaying a video image on a display device detecting a form within the video image the form including one or more data entry fields identifying a member of the one or more data entry fields having a current focus gathering metadata characterizing the identified member of the one or more data entry fields sniffing a bus to capture data entered in the identified member of the one or more data entry fields encrypting the captured data or digitally signing the captured data inserting the encrypted or signed data in a data packet and sending the encrypted or signed data to a remote device via a communication network.

Various embodiments of the invention include a method of forwarding secure data the method comprising receiving a data packet from an endpoint system identifying a source of the data packet retrieving a decryption key or certification data based on the identity of the source decrypting or authenticating contents of the data packet identifying an account based on the identity of the source identifying a destination for the contents and forwarding the contents to the destination based on a status of the account.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computing system comprising a secure input apparatus including an input apparatus configured to digitize an input from a user the secure input apparatus further including a secure key storage configured to store an encryption key and encryption logic configured to encrypt the digitized input using the encryption key a less secure portion of the computing system the less secure portion being configured to receive the receive the encrypted input and to communicate the encrypted input to a TDR server and being configured to function as an endpoint to communications received from the TDR server and a communication circuit configured to communicate the encrypted input from the secure input to the less secure portion.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computing system comprising a secure input apparatus including an input apparatus configured to digitize an input from a user a secure key storage configured to store an encryption key encryption logic configured to encrypt the digitized input using the encryption key and a less secure portion of the computing system the less secure portion being configured to receive the encrypted input and to communicate the encrypted input to a TDR server and being configured to function as an endpoint to communications received from the TDR server the encryption logic being disposed in a communication circuit between the secure input apparatus and the less secure portion.

Various embodiments of the invention include a secure communication system comprising an input configured to receive at least partially encrypted or certified data from an endpoint system the at least partially encrypted or certified data including an identifier of the endpoint system an image and a user input a key storage including decryption keys or certification signatures stored in association with identifiers of endpoint systems decryption authentication logic configured to decrypt or authenticate the at least partially encrypted or certified data to a secure output using a decryption or authentication key retrieved from the key storage the retrieval using the identifier of the endpoint system image recognition logic configured to generate a reference image using the user input and to compare the reference image to the image included in the at least partially encrypted or certified data and to authenticate the user input based on a match in the comparison and a remote service connector configured to forward the secure output to a remote computing system.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computing system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive an input from a user a display configured to display the input a processing unit configured to process commands received from the user an input capture module isolated from a less secure part of the computing system the isolation configured to prevent corruption of the input capture module by computing instructions from outside of the input capture module the input capture module comprising storage configured to store a one or more encryption keys and or certificates means for capturing image data sent to the display and logic configured to encrypt or certify the captured data the encryption or certification using the one or more encryption keys and or certificates and occurring within the input capture module and communication logic configured to communicate the encrypted or certified data to a communication network.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computing system comprising an input apparatus configured to receive an input from a user a display configured to display the input a bus configured to communicate the input to the display a processing unit configured to process data and commands received via the bus an input capture module isolated from a less secure part of the computing system the isolation configured to prevent corruption of the input capture module by computing instructions received from outside of the input capture module the input capture module comprising storage configured to store an encryption key or certificate such that the encryption key or certificate cannot be read from outside the input capture module a data input configured to receive image data resulting from the input apparatus and logic configured to encrypt or certify the data resulting from the input apparatus the encryption or certification using the encryption key or certificate and occurring within the input capture module and communication logic configured to communicate an output of the logic to a communication network.

Systems and methods of the invention may be used for example to secure interactions between computing devices and internet based services. The interactions can include financial transactions such as accessing a bank account making a purchase or bidding. The interactions can also include accessing confidential information such as medical data web based e mail social networking accounts etc. Not only are interactions secured but in some embodiments authentication of a user s computing devices serves to supplement and or replace login steps.

Endpoint Device includes at least an Input Apparatus a Capture Module and what is referred to herein as the Rest of Device RoD . Input Apparatus includes a physical apparatus configured to provide input to Endpoint Device . For example Input Apparatus can include a keyboard a pointing device mouse touch pad etc. a camera a biometric device finger print or eye scanner etc. a global positioning system a local positioning system a touch screen voice to text logic a measurement device and or the like. In some embodiments Input Apparatus includes an audio input and voice to text logic. RoD Input Apparatus and or Capture Module are optionally disposed within a same housing. Typically Capture Module includes hardware elements configured to assure the direction of data flow such that the logic of Capture Module cannot be corrupted or configured as hardwired to perform those logic operations required to maintain security and integrity of the device.

Capture Module is optionally configured to detect inputs generated using Input Apparatus . In some embodiments Capture Module is disposed between Input Apparatus and RoD . For example Capture Module can be a dongle placed between a keyboard and a computer. In this example all keystrokes entered at the keyboard pass through Capture Module before being received by RoD . Capture Module may prevent malware from reaching logic within the keyboard by blocking communications from RoD to the keyboard. Capture Module may be referred to as a bridge.

Capture Module is optionally configured to detect inputs displayed on a display of Endpoint Device . This display may be for example Display discussed elsewhere herein. In some embodiments Capture Module is disposed between this display and RoD . For example Capture Module can be a dongle placed between a computer monitor and a computer. In this example all characters shown on the display pass through Capture Module as part of displayed video data. This video data may be in any of the standard formats used in displays for television of computer monitors may be interlaced or progressive may be compress etc. See http en.wikipedia.org wiki Video. Capture Module may prevent malware from reaching logic within the display by blocking communications from RoD to the display.

In some embodiments Capture Module is not disposed between Input Apparatus and RoD . Rather Capture Module is configured to monitor communications within Endpoint Device . As is described further elsewhere herein these communications may be between Input Apparatus and RoD and or between various parts of RoD . For example in some embodiments Capture Module is configured to sniff a data bus within Endpoint Device . As used herein the term sniffing a bus is meant to include monitoring a data bus for data communicated within the bus the data being destined for an element other than the sniffer. Typically sniffing is a one way communication. The bus sniffed can be a main system bus a video bus and or the like.

RoD Rest of Device is meant to include those parts of Endpoint Device other than Capture Module and Input Apparatus . As discussed elsewhere herein RoD can include a wide variety of components such as a microprocessor a bus and a display. RoD is a less secure part of the computing device relative to Capture Module .

TDR includes one or more servers configured to receive data packets from Endpoint Device . As is described further elsewhere herein TDR is configured to decrypt and or certify user input within the data packets and forward the user input to a final destination such as Server . TDR is optionally also configured to receive responses from Server and communicate these response to Endpoint Device . In some embodiments the data packets receive from Endpoint Device are communicated from Endpoint Device to TDR directly via Network . In some embodiments the data packets are communicated from Endpoint Device to Server where they are recognized as requiring decryption and or verification by TDR . In these embodiments Server forwards the data packets to TDR where they are decrypted and or verified and then returned to Server . This approach does not require communication directly from Endpoint Device to TDR .

Server is one or more computing device configured to provide a service. For example Server may be a server of a private corporate network a financial institution an auction site a medical data server an e mail server video or audio streamer a social networking website and or the like. Server is optionally managed by a different entity than TDR . Server optionally includes a gatekeeper configured to control access to a protected network. In some embodiments Server is configured to communicate with Endpoint Device via TDR for the purposes of authentication and administration of a security policy. Following satisfaction of the security policy Server may then allow direct access from Endpoint Device to a network protected by Server . Access may be allowed by setting an access control list assigning a VLAN etc. Embodiments in which this approach may be taken include for example logging into Servers configured to stream files music or video or logging into Servers configured to setup voice or video calls.

In some embodiments Server is configured to treat user input received from other external clients in the same way it treats user input received from TDR . However in other embodiments Server is configured to allow greater access privileges if Server is accessed via TDR relative to if Server is accessed from some other client. For example access via TDR may be required to transfer funds.

TDR and Server may communicate through Network and or via a private communication channel as illustrated . Typically TDR is configured to communicate with a large number of Endpoint Devices and or Servers . TDR can include a plurality of distributed computing devices.

RoD further includes an I O that includes communication logic configured to communicate with external devices for example via Network . I O can include a wireless transmitter an Ethernet connection a modem a router and or the like. I O can further include logic configured to place data in data packets add internet protocol addresses to data packets and or to encrypt data packets using standard internet protocols. I O typically includes data buffers configured to facilitate the sending and receiving of data over Network .

RoD further includes an Application Storage having non transient memory configured to store one or more computer applications. For example Application Storage may include a browser application configured for browsing the internet a social networking application configured to access a social networking website a media application configured to receive video or audio streams an e mail application configured to access e mail an application configured to access a specific website such as that of an auction house or financial institution and or the like. Application Storage may include decryption and or encryption logic. In some embodiments Application Storage includes applications configured to function as an operating system of Endpoint Device configured to auto fill text in data entry fields and or configured to correct spelling. Typically Processor is configured to execute the one or more applications.

RoD optionally includes a Display configured to present images to a user of Endpoint Device . Display can be for example a touch screen display of a tablet computer or smart phone. Display may be coupled to a microprocessor and memory not shown configured to generate video data for presentation on a screen. In some embodiments Display is closely associated with Input Apparatus for example in a touch screen. Display is configured to present images generated by applications stored in Application Storage . These images can include characters and data entry fields in which a user can enter information for communication to an associated Server . For example an application associated with a specific bank may present to a user a form configured for a user to enter account login information or an application associated with an online store may present a form configured for a user to enter shipping and credit card information. Such forms include data entry fields. In various embodiments Display is disposed within RoD or connected to RoD by Capture Module such that video data from Bus passes through Capture Module prior to being presented on Display .

RoD optionally further includes a Flag Control configured to provide binary data values flags to control Capture Module . Flag Control comprises electrical data inputs configured to perform specific functions. These functions include for example reset change key change certificate destroy certificate destroy key disable capture and or provide notice of a new focus new screen or form submission. The reset flag reinitiates Capture Module to return it to an initial state. The reset flag may be used to recover from errors or as part of resetting all of Endpoint Device . One or more change key flag may be used to alternate between different encryption keys or to permanently switch from one key to another. For example an instance of Endpoint Device may be used for both a user s personal security social networking and financial etc. and also be used for accessing secure corporate or government services. These two different levels of security can use different encryption keys and optionally different TDRs . Similarly one or more change certificate flag may be used to alternate between different certification certificates or to permanently switch from one certificate to another. The destroy key or certificate flags are used to permanently erase an encryption keys and or certificates respectively. In some embodiments a new key can be written to Capture Module only by returning Endpoint Device to an approved vendor or factory e.g. by disassembling Endpoint Device . In some embodiments Capture Module is permanently disabled by erasing an encryption key. The disable flag is used to temporally disable one or more function of Capture Module . Typically doing so would reduce the functionality of Endpoint Device . For example I O may be configured in hardware to require that the disable flag be off in order for I O to send data to and or receive data from external devices. Optionally call data is exempt from this restriction. A new focus new screen or submit flag is used to indicate that a change in focus has occurred on Display that the screen on Display has been refreshed a form has been submitted or that a new form has posted on Display .

RoD optionally further includes a Decryption Key Storage configured to store a decryption key configure for decrypting data received from TDR . For example in some embodiments TDR is configured to encrypt and forward a response from Server . In some embodiments RoD is configured to use standard encryption protocols such as SSL or TLS transport layer security . RoD may be configured to download a public key from TDR for use in a secure conversation with TDR . This public key is downloaded into RoD and thus does not provide all of the benefits of private keys securely stored in Capture Module .

RoD typically further includes a Storage including memory configured to store data associated with applications stored in Application Storage . This data can include video data form data e.g. metadata that is part of a data entry form account information security certificates internet protocol addresses and or the like. For example Storage may include a fixed IP addresses or domain name associated with TDR and or various Servers . Storage is optionally configured to store a serial number or other unique identifier of Endpoint Device . Storage is optionally configured to store unencrypted copies of user input received via Input Apparatus .

RoD optionally further includes a Substitution Logic configured to replace unencrypted input data with encrypted and or certified copies of the input data produced by Capture Module . This substation occurs prior to the input data being sent from Endpoint Device . Substitution logic may also be configured to substitute encrypted and or certified metadata for unencrypted metadata and to substitute an IP address of Server for an IP address or domain name of TDR . Substitution Logic is configured to identify data destined for Server and make the substitutions in that data. In some embodiments substation occurs as the data is being placed in packets for communication by I O . In some embodiments rather than substitution both the data produced by Capture Module and data from RoD are sent to TDR .

Capture Module includes a Secure Key Storage configured to store one or more protected encryption keys and or certificates. In some embodiments the encryption keys and or certificates are protected because Capture Module is isolated from RoD such the contents of Secure Key Storage cannot be read from outside of Capture Module e.g. from RoD . This can be accomplished by avoiding a read data path from Secure Key Storage to RoD in the circuits of Capture Module . In some embodiments Secure Key Storage is further configured such that the contents of Secure Key Storage cannot be changed once written. In some embodiments Secure Key Storage includes a clock and a key that changes as a function of time. In some embodiments Secure Key Storage includes a value configured to generate a rolling encryption key. In some embodiments Capture Module includes a clock or random number generator configured to create an encryption key based on a seed value stored in Secure Key Storage .

Input data is received by Capture Module via Sniffer and or Data Input . Data Input is configured to receive input data directly from Input Apparatus e.g. without the data passing through RoD prior to being received by Capture Module . Data Input is typically used in embodiments wherein Capture Module is physically disposed between Input Apparatus and RoD such that all input data from Input Apparatus passes through Capture Module prior to being passed on to RoD . This architecture isolates Input Apparatus from RoD .

Sniffer is configured to sniff input data from Bus . The sniffed input data can include for example data communicated from Input Apparatus to Bus and or from I O to Bus . However the sniffed input data can also include video data destined for presentation on Display . This allows Capture Module to capture input data generated by other sources such as spell correction or field auto completion logic. For example in embodiments where Application Storage includes applications that alter user s input by correcting spelling or completing a data field data entered using Input Apparatus may be changed as the data is displayed on Display . Specifically if a user is entering a name or address that has been entered before auto complete logic may finish the entry before all of the keystrokes have been provided through Input Apparatus . Sniffer is optionally configured to capture video data in which the full name or address is displayed. Sniffer also allows capture of input data generated by voice to text conversion logic.

Optional Character Recognition Logic is configured to examine video data captured by Sniffer and identify characters entered by a user and or inserted by spellchecking or auto complete logic. The identification process may include detection of a field having current focus observing data entered in that field and detecting when the current focus changes. Once the current focus changes character recognition for that field can be completed. Thus text provided by spellchecking auto complete or similar logic is captured by Capture Module . Character Recognition Logic may also recognize data received from I O such as form titles certificates metadata etc. Character Recognition Logic may be applied each time focus is changed from one field to another after a subset of fields are completed or after an entire form is ready for submission. As discussed elsewhere herein a flag is optionally used to indicate changes in focus or form submission to Capture Module . In alternative embodiments Character Recognition Logic is disposed on TDR and the captured video data is transferred to TDR for identification of characters. In some embodiments Capture Module is configured to send image pixel data rather than character data. The image data may be captured from Bus and or from an output of RoD to Display . For example if Capture Module includes a dongle disposed between RoD and Display image data sent to Display for presentation to a user will pass through Capture Module . After the image data is received by TDR Character Recognition Logic is optionally used to recognize characters or other symbols within the received image.

In some embodiments the image data includes a rasterized image. For example the image data can include pixel data of an image containing text. The content of this text can be confirmed by comparing images optionally rather than performing optical character recognition. For example an image containing text can be confirmed to contain the text of a given character string by comparison with another image. First the expected text string is used to construct a new pixel image containing the text with the same font and font size as the expected text in the original pixel image. The new and original pixel images containing text are then compared to one another in order to determine with high certainty whether the text in each image is the same. In a specific example if an image is expected to contain the text TrueData a new image is constructed containing the text TrueData in the same size font and font type. The two images can then be compared to verify that the new image containing the text TrueData matches the original image suspected of containing the text TrueData within some defined confidence threshold . In these embodiments Character Recognition Logic need not necessarily include OCR optical character recognition logic but may merely include logic configured to compare images and optionally to create images having known text to compare with captured images. This approach to confirming character content of a displayed image may be performed on Endpoint Device and or TDR . The approach is not limited to character strings and may be applied to cursor clicks screen touches special symbols and or image subsets e.g. pictures within an image . By capturing image data Capture Module can confirm that any text symbols and or images presented on Display .

In some embodiments Optical Character Recognition OCR of the information found on Bus is not performed with in the Capture Module of the Endpoint Device . For example when the user signals the completion of a form such as through the use of a submit button on the display the Capture Module may sniff the Bus or an output to Display to capture image data rendered on Display . The captured data is then optionally cropped such that only display pixels for one or more secure form field are retained and stored in a form field image. Each secure form field image is then digitally signed e.g. by Capture Module . In addition to the metadata for each secure form field and the digital signature for that form field the secure form field image is also sent directly to TDR and or to RoD where the data can be bundled into the HTTPS request packets destined for TDR .

In some embodiments Character Recognition Logic is configured to identify objects at the locations of specific screen coordinates. These locations may be the position of a mouse click or of a touch on a touch screen. For example if a user is touching a virtual keyboard on a smart phone or tablet computer Character Recognition Logic is configured to identify the keyboard character at this location. In addition Character Recognition Logic may be configured to recognize other objects such as a right arrow indicating a next screen a thumbs up or thumbs down symbol a floppy disk symbol to save and or any other computer icon that may be used as part of a graphical user interface.

In these embodiments Sniffer may sniff from Bus both the output of Input Apparatus and the video data provided to Display . The sniffed data is provided to Character Recognition Logic where correlation between the screen locations received from Input Apparatus and the graphics shown on Display are made. The graphic object that correlates with the location which may be a character or some other symbol is identified by Character Recognition Logic . The graphic object may itself be treated as the user input or the graphic object may be converted to an input object and the input object treated as the user input. For example the graphic object may be converted to a character code a command a character combination sequence and or the like. In one exemplary embodiment a save icon is converted to a Cntl S character combination a new icon is converted to a Cntl N character combination a paste icon is converted to a Cntl V character combination etc. As such any graphic representation can be converted to meaningful user input.

In some embodiments Sniffer is configured to sniff data received at I O . For example Sniffer may sniff form information received from an external web server. Character Recognition Logic may then be configured to recognize certificates fields and or metadata within the form and authenticate that the recognized fields and or metadata were received via I O .

Characters and other input captured by Capture Module are temporally stored in Character Storage . Character Storage is optionally also configured to store data associated with forms and form fields and to store this data in association with the captured input data. For example a form that includes a data field for an address may have metadata used to tag an entered address. Such tags are used by Server to identify which input data was entered in which field and optionally if the field was received via I O . The metadata may be captured using Sniffer . In alternative embodiments this metadata is stored in Storage and captured by logic included in Application Storage .

In some embodiments the metadata stored by Sniffer and or captured by Capture Module may characterize data entry fields be part of a data entry form be used to tag entered data include a check sum or digital signature included a unique identifier etc. In some embodiments this metadata is stored in Storage and captured by logic included in Application Storage . The metadata may be encrypted or communicated in an un encrypted form and or may be certified.

The metadata can be loosely classified as static or dynamic. Static metadata includes for example a display label a field name a field ordinal a unique global identifier a bounding shape e.g. a rectangle of a display label or a text entry box background color foreground color font size absolute or relative to a bounding shape operating system identifier device type identifier image dimensions and or the like. Dynamic meta data includes for example input keystrokes input touchscreen locations time between touchscreen events or keystrokes geographic location device movement e.g. small movements as detected by accelerometers or gyroscopes or large movements detected by global positioning systems device orientation identities of applications running on the device URLs open referring website browser type campaign identifier A B testing data identifiers for specific offers discounts prices programs etc. and or the like. The metadata is optionally used to perform lead tracking A B testing track users and or profile users.

Capture Module optionally further includes a device ID Storage . ID Storage is configured to store a unique identifier of Capture Module . Like Secure Key Storage ID Storage is optionally configured to be inaccessible from outside Capture Module . ID Storage may be configured to be unalterable from outside Capture Module .

Capture Module optionally further include Encryption Logic configured to encrypt data captured by Capture Module using one or more encryption keys stored in Secure Key Storage . The output of Encryption Logic optionally includes an encrypted copy of the unique identifier of Capture Module . The output of Encryption Logic optionally includes an encrypted copy of metadata stored in Character Storage and associated with captured characters. Encryption Logic is configured to encrypt data using any of a variety of encryption algorithms known in the art.

Capture Module optionally further includes Certification Logic configured to certify data captured by Capture Module e.g. to digitally sign the captured data. The data is certified using a certificate stored within Capture Module . For example the certificate may be stored in Secure Key Storage . The certified data optionally includes a certified copy of the unique identifier of Capture Module . The output of Certification Logic optionally includes a certified copy of metadata stored in Character Storage and associated with captured characters.

Capture module includes at least one and optionally both of Encryption Logic and Certification Logic . In some embodiments some data is certified and some data is encrypted. For example user input data may be certified while metadata is encrypted or vice versa. The unique identifier stored in ID Storage may be encrypted and or certified.

Capture Module optionally further includes a Flag Input . Flag Input is configured to detect the status of Flag Control and adapt the function of Capture Module accordingly. For example if a destroy key flag is set the current key may be permanently destroyed e.g. overwritten . If one or more change key flags are set then one of several alternative keys from Secure Key Storage are selected for use by Encryption Logic . A destroy certificate flag may be configured to permanently destroy a certificate in a manner similar to destroy key flag. A select certificate flag is optionally used to select between one of several alternative certificates from Secure Key Storage for use by Certification Logic . Alternatively Capture Module may be configured to select from among a plurality of different keys or certificates based on detecting an image on Bus or based on receiving a specific input such as a password or biometric key via Input Apparatus .

In some embodiments the metadata associated with each field is detected by Sniffer and encrypted by Encryption Logic optionally along with the characters entered in the respective field. In some embodiments certified and or encrypted copies of entered characters received from Capture Module are stored in Storage in association with the metadata of the field in which the characters were entered. Fields are optionally filled by auto completion logic and or modified by spell checking logic as discussed elsewhere herein. For example in some embodiments address data fields relating to billing information are automatically filled by auto completion logic in response to a user indicating that a billing address is the same as a shipping address or vice versa .

In some embodiments characters entered in a field are masked so as not to be displayed. See for example the Credit Card Number field in . In these embodiments Capture Module is optionally configured to sniff the entered characters from Bus as they are communicated from Input Apparatus or to receive the entered characters directly from Input Apparatus . The operation of Capture Module is optionally dependent on which Field in Data Input Form has the current focus. For example if the field is subject to auto completion then the characters may be captured from video data. If the field is subject to masking then the characters may be captured as they are communicated from Input Apparatus .

In some embodiments Endpoint Device includes a virtual keyboard. For example Endpoint Device may include an iPhone . In these embodiments a letter is displayed above the keyboard when a key is typed. The image data displayed including these displayed keys can be captured by Capture Module . The image data can be communicated to TDR and or the character output of Character Recognition Logic operating on the image data.

In some embodiments Endpoint Device includes an application configured to insert additional metadata into Data Input Form . This metadata can server security functions such as establishing a check sum for the form can help notify Capture Module when focus changes between Fields can help notify Capture Module when a next Button is used to submit a form can help sniffer by tagging certain data and or can help capture Labels .

Input data may be sent from Endpoint Device to Server when Data Input Form is completed and submitted and or as the focus is moved from one of Fields to another. For example a value in one of Fields may influence the presence or absence of additional Fields and or Data Input Form may be configured to send partial data before Data Input Form is entirely completed and or submit e.g. using next Button . Regardless of how the input data is sent from Endpoint Device Substitution Logic is configured to substitute encrypted and or certified copies of the input data received from Capture Module for unencrypted uncertified copies of the input data. As discussed elsewhere herein the encrypted and or certified copies may or may not include associated metadata. The metadata input data and or identifier of Capture Module can be encrypted and or certified in any combination. For example in some embodiments the metadata and identifier are encrypted while the input data is certified. In some embodiments the input data and identifier are encrypted while the metadata is certified. In some embodiments the identifier is encrypted while the metadata and user input are certified. In some embodiments the metadata is encrypted while the user input is certified and an identifier is optional. In some embodiments the unique identifier and user input are encrypted while the metadata is certified. All of these data elements user input metadata and unique identifier may be encrypted and or certified.

Substitution Logic is optionally further configured to substitute an IP address of TDR for the IP address or domain name of Server such that data packets including the encrypted input data are sent to TDR rather than to Server . Optionally the original IP address is retained elsewhere in the data packet such that TDR can easily identify the intended final destination of the data packet. This functionality is optional where the IP address of TDR is in the data packets by default. Note that the substitution of an IP address is not necessary if the same party controls TDR and Server . In some embodiments any address that TDR would forward data to is pre registered. As such there can be a 1 1 mapping between the IP address to which the data is originally address and an IP address to which the data is forwarded. TDR can thus automatically look up a destination address based on the address at which the data was received.

The input data metadata and or identifier of Capture Module are optionally sent from Endpoint Device using SSL secure socket layer or SSH secure shell protocols for example HTTPS communications. These protocols may be implemented by I O and constitute a second layer of encryption on the input data metadata and identifier. For example in some embodiments the identifier and or metadata are encrypted using both Encryption Logic and SSL while associated input data optionally authenticated is encrypted using just SSL. In some embodiments the metadata and or the identifier are encrypted twice while the input data is encrypted using just SSL. In some embodiments the input data the unique identifier and or at least part of the metadata are encrypted using both Encryption Logic and SSL or SSH . Other combinations of single and double encryption will be apparent based on the teachings herein.

TDR further comprises Decryption Authentication Logic and Key Storage . Decryption Authentication Logic is configured to decrypt and or authenticate data received from Endpoint Device using a decryption key and or certificate verification information stored in Key Storage . Certificate verification information can include for example a public key associated with the certificate used a symmetric key and or the like. Optionally a certificate is used to establish a pair of symmetric keys in a communication session between Endpoint Device and TDR . Further communications that are part of that communication session may make use of these symmetric keys. As used herein the term certificate verification information is used to refer in general to information that can be used to verify a digital signature. The digital signature may or may not have been generated using a private or third party certificate. One example if certificate verification information is a public or private key used for validating a digital signature. Decryption Authentication Logic is configured to generate a decrypted authenticated secure output which is optionally provided to Forwarding Logic as described elsewhere herein.

In some embodiments the appropriate decryption key is identified within Key Storage by identifying the source of the encrypted data e.g. identifying Endpoint Device . This identification can be accomplished in a variety of different ways. In some embodiments a MAC Media Access Control address unique identifier and or serial number or is used to look up the appropriate key in Key Storage . In some embodiments the decryption key is identified using the unique identifier or digital signature of Capture Module . For example if the metadata is encrypted by Encryption Logic and the input data and identifier are certified using Certification Logic and optionally also SSL encrypted the identifier or the digital signature associated with the certification may be used to look up the decryption key needed to decrypt the metadata.

A Device Data Storage is optionally configured to store the unique identifier certificate verification information MAC address IP address and or other identifier of Capture Module . The information stored in Device Data Storage optionally includes associations configured for authentication of received input data. For example Device Data Storage can include associated data records configured to store the certificate verification information serial number unique identifier of Capture Module and or a MAC address of I O . Received input data and or metadata can be authenticated by confirming that the digital signature serial number unique identifier and or MAC address match. In some embodiments authentication is also inherent in that only the correct decryption key can be used to successfully decrypt data that was encrypted using Encryption Logic . The authentication is optionally used to authorize financial transactions to merchants. For example a user may enter an amount of currency and an identifier of a payee e.g. merchant service provider or seller . The systems and methods described to authenticate the entries and or the device may be used to authorize a financial transaction to the payee.

In addition to looking up the decryption key any of the above information can be used to look up account information associated with Endpoint Device . This account information is stored in an Account Data Storage . Account Data Storage is configured to store the account information through for example proper data structures. Secure Communication System can provide security by protecting and authenticating Endpoint Device without the use of a user s personal information. This can be an advantage. However in alternative embodiments The account information can include registered names of users of Endpoint Device bank account information credit card information account status the identities of Servers for which access is authorized via TDR administrative authority over the account passwords and login information for accessing user accounts on Servers and or the like. The inclusion of user identifying information within Account Data Storage is optional. In some embodiments the stored account information includes a password and login information provided by a manager of Server e.g. a financial institution . The identity of the account holder associated with the password and login information need only be known by the financial institution. By authenticating Endpoint Device and not necessarily requiring that a user provide the password and login information to authenticate the user privacy protection can be greatly enhanced.

The account status stored in Account Data Storage is optionally used to control the functionality of Endpoint Device . For example if Endpoint Device is stolen this fact may be reported and stored in Account Data Storage and as a result access to authorized Servers via TDR can be blocked. This approach can be used to control any function of Endpoint Device that involves network communication including but not limited to texting establishing voice communications e mail access access to specific websites financial transactions and or the like. This control of functionality is reversible by merely changing the account status stored in Account Data Storage .

For each Endpoint Device access to one or more Server may be authorized. For example Endpoint Device may be associated with an eBay.com account a bank account an e mail account a streaming music account and a Facebook account. Each of these accounts can be serviced by a different independent instance of Server . The authorization to access an account can include providing login information and IP addresses of the Servers to TDR and storing this data in Account Data Storage in association with an identifier of Endpoint Device and or Capture Module . This information is optionally provided by a manager of Server . For example a user may bring a cellular phone including Capture Module into a bank and asked that the bank authorize access to a bank account via the cellular phone. The bank can obtain an identifier identifier of Capture Module certificate etc. from the phone and then provide TDR with the identifier and authorization information for the phone the authorization information including login identifier and optionally a password. At TDR the provided information is stored in association with the identifier of the phone. The Server is then optionally set to only allow access to the user s account from TDR when a request includes the authorization information. TDR need not store personal information of the user because the authorization information can be anonymous to anyone but the bank. In some embodiments different levels of access to the user s account are granted dependent on whether the access is requested from an authorized Endpoint Device . Even though in some embodiments TDR stores an account password the user may or may not be required to enter an additional optionally different password on Endpoint Device to access the account. Access to some Server may require both that a user provide a correct password and that the password be provided from an Endpoint Device authenticated using the systems and methods described herein.

TDR further includes Forwarding Logic configured to forward decrypted copies and or copies that have been certified jointly referred to as secure output of the input and metadata received from Endpoint Device . The forwarded data is forward to a correct instance of Server as identified in Account Data Storage . In some embodiments Forwarding Logic is configured to check account status and or authorization of the Server prior to forwarding. In some embodiments data input and metadata is automatically forwarded but the forwarded data is meaningless unless the proper decryption key or certification was used by Decryption Authentication Logic . I O is typically used to place the forwarded data in appropriate data packets.

TDR typically further includes Encryption Logic which is configured to encrypt data packets sent from TDR to Server . In some embodiments Encryption Logic is configured to perform encryption according to SSL or SSH protocols. Server may be configured to for certain user accounts and or forms be configured to only accept input data forwarded by TDR .

TDR further includes a Processor configured to execute Decryption Authentication Logic and or Encryption Logic . In some embodiments Processor is an electronic microprocessor configured for a specific purpose by Decryption Authentication Logic and or Encryption Logic .

TDR optionally further includes an Audit Log Storage configured to store an audit of data transactions. This audit can include records of transaction Endpoint Devices from which data was received Servers to which data was sent and or the like.

In some embodiments TDR is configured to receive a response to data forwarded to Server . This response may be decrypted using Decryption Authentication Logic and or encrypted using Encryption Logic prior to forwarding to Endpoint Device . The response may include an additional form configured to receive user input.

In some embodiments TDR is configured to receive the image data from Endpoint Device . This image data can include for example pixel image for each secure form field. An embodiment of Character Recognition Logic within TDR is configured to apply OCR in order to validate that the form field text sent by the application via an HTTPS name value pair matches the text within the signed pixel image also sent. If the digital signature is correct and the text captured by performing OCR on the secure form field image matches the received text and the other metadata checks are confirmed then the HTTPS request is considered valid and forwarded on to Server .

In some embodiments TDR receives the pixel images e.g. for each secure form field and uses an Image Recognition Logic in order to validate received data. Image Recognition Logic is configured to perform Rasterized Text Verification RTV . RTV includes for example comparing the form field text sent optionally as plain text by Endpoint Device via an HTTPS matches the text within a signed pixel image also sent by Capture Module . This assures that text displayed to a user is the actual text sent and prevents tampering with this text. If the digital signature is correct and the sent text and the text within the signed pixel image can be validated using RTV and the other metadata checks are confirmed then the HTTPS request is considered valid and forwarded on to the Sever . Image Recognition Logic is optionally part of Decryption Authentication Logic .

In some embodiments Image Recognition Logic is configured to take text received and determine the font and size of this text using the associated metadata. Image Recognition Logic then generates a reference image including this text. The reference image is compared with the signed pixel image. If the two images match within a predetermined confidence threshold then is can be validated that the received text is the same as displayed to the user. As discussed elsewhere herein this approach is not limited to standard character strings and sets. For example the sent text may alternatively be a special symbol or an authentication image specific to a user or device account. The authentication image may be an image selected by the user to appear on a webpage to confirm the source of the webpage. Image Recognition Logic includes hardware firmware and or software stored on a computer readable medium.

In some embodiments a run time library running inside an operating system of Endpoint or Capture Module steganographically adds information to a secure form field when text is entered into the field at runtime. Steganography is the art or practice of concealing a message image or file within another message image or file. An advantage of steganography over cryptography alone is that the intended secret message does not attract attention to itself as an object of scrutiny. The steganography values optionally correspond to the UTF 8 ASCII and or other character set values for the form field text. When the Sniffer sniffs the display data from the Bus the encoded character values are decoded from the secure form field image. They may later be combined e.g. by Image Recognition Logic or Capture Module to reconstruct the supposed text within the field. The TDR or Capture Module then utilizes the decoded text along with the pixel image of the secure form field to validate the values are the same through Raster Text Verification RTV using an embodiment of Image Recognition Logic . If this process is performed on Capture Module using a local embodiment of Image Recognition Logic and if the Raster Text Verification successfully matches the decoded text with the secure form field pixel image the a digital signature is created for the decoded text and that signature along with the metadata for that secure form field is then sent to the RoD where it is then bundled with the HTTPS request to be consumed by the TDR . Alternatively the steganography values are sent to TDR with the text and these steps are performed at TDR for authentication.

Bus is configured to communicate the input from Input Buffer to storage accessible to Processor e.g. Storage . As such Processor can receive the user input via Input Apparatus .

Sniffer is optionally configured to detect the user input in a way that assures that the detected input is not corrupted by logic operating outside of the input apparatus e.g. by malware. For example Sniffer may accesses the user input as it is being communicated from a part of input apparatus that cannot be changed by an operating system or other logic executing on Processor . Or Sniffer may access the user input before it can be changed by an operating system or other logic executing on Processor . In some embodiments this part of input apparatus is Input Buffer . As such the detection occurs prior to the user input being accessible to or modifiable by Processor and or other elements outside of User Input Apparatus . The input as detected by Sniffer is unalterable by Processor prior to detection. After detection the input is within a protected part of Capture Module . Thus the integrity of the input through the time it is encrypted or certified is assured. The encrypted or digitally signed copy of the input that is detected by Sniffer is assured to be a true copy of the input as received from the user. Because the output of Sniffer is in a protected area of Capture Module any malware located on RoD cannot corrupt the input prior to encryption or certification.

Display Buffer is storage configured to receive video data and to provide the video data to a display screen where it may be observed by a user. Display Buffer is the last storage in that can be accessed via Bus before it is presented at the display screen. Typically between Display Buffer and the display screen the video data is merely prepared e.g. placed in the right formation and given the correct timing for display. Sniffer is optionally configured to detect the video data in a way that assures that the detected video data is what is actually presented to the user. For example Sniffer may be configured to detect all communications via Bus to Display Buffer such that Capture Module can detect a copy of the video data that is assured to be the same as is presented to the user on the display screen. The video data may be detected at a point in the communication of the video data to the video display after which the video data is no longer modifiable by Processor . The video data may be detected at a point in the communication of the video data to the video display at which any change to the video data by an operating system or other logic executing on Processor is detectable by Sniffer .

In some embodiments of Endpoint Device do not include a Display Buffer . For example in less sophisticated mobile devices there is no intermediary buffer between an operating system and other logic executed by Processor and the screen of Display . In these devices the operating system may be responsible for continually communicating video data to the screen at a fixed refresh rate e.g. 60 Hz . In these cases Sniffer is optionally configured to sniff Bus where the video data is communicated to the screen for example between Processor and the screen.

In a Display Form Step a form configured for user input is displayed on Display of Endpoint Device . Data Input Form is an example of such a form. The displayed form may come from an application running on Endpoint Device or may be part of a webpage displayed in a browser.

In a Detect Form Step the presence of the form on Display is detected by Capture Module . This is accomplished by an application providing a notice to e.g. by setting a flag discussed elsewhere herein or by Capture Module sniffing data on Bus . For example Capture Module may be configured to detecting of a new display page to Display .

In an Identify Field Step one or more data entry fields are identified within the displayed form. The data entry fields are typically configured for entry of characters such as illustrated in . However in alternative embodiments data entry fields may include checkboxes icons a virtual keyboard and or the like. Data entry fields may be identified by their images as displayed on Display and or by metadata associated with the fields.

In an optional Gather Metadata Step metadata associated with identified data fields is gathered. This metadata is optionally gathered using Sniffer . The metadata is stored in Character Storage .

In a Sniff Bus Step Bus is sniffed for input data using Sniffer . Bus may be sniffed for user input data coming from Input Apparatus and or for input data displayed on Display . In some embodiments user input is received directly from Input Apparatus via Data Input in Sniff Bus Step . Use of Sniffer is optional.

In a Detect Submit Step the submission of a form or subset thereof is detected. This detection may be accomplished using Sniffer . Submission of the form means that data entered in the form is submitted for further processing such as sending to Server . Detect Submit Step may occur in response to the change focus flag new screen flag and or a submit flag discussed elsewhere herein.

In an optional Extract Data Step input data entered in the form is extracted from associated metadata. This step is used for example when the input data and metadata are processed differently. Extract Data Step may also include use of Character Recognition Logic to identify input data within images displayed on Display . The extracted input data is stored in Character Storage .

In an optional Sign Data Step Certification Logic is used to certify e.g. digitally sign an identifier of Capture Module stored in ID Storage input data and or associated metadata. The certification may be accomplished using a digital certificate stored in Secure Key Storage .

In an optional Encrypt Step Encryption Logic is used to encrypt an identifier of Capture Module stored in ID Storage input data and or associated metadata. The input data and associated metadata are those obtained and optionally the extracted in proceeding steps above. The methods illustrated by include at least one of Sign Data Step and Encrypt Step . As described elsewhere herein the input data and associated metadata are optionally processed differently.

In an Insert Data Step the data certified in Sign Data Step and or Encrypted in Encrypt Step are inserted into data packets addressed to TDR . The insertion optionally includes replacing non certified and or non encrypted copies of the data. The insertion optionally further includes adding an address e.g. IP address of TDR to the data packets. This address may be obtained from within Capture Module RoD or a location external to Endpoint Device .

In a Send Data Step the data packets including the certified and or encrypted data are sent to TDR . Send Data Step optionally includes encrypting the data packets using standard protocols such as secure socket layer SSL encryption. The data packets may be sent to a fixed IP address domain name or fixed location on a network. An address of the destination is optionally stored in Storage .

In a Receive Packet Step a data packet is received from one of a plurality of Endpoint Devices . This data packet is typically received via Network and may be one of several related data packets received.

In an optional Decrypt Packet Step the received data packet is decrypted using standard protocols such as secure socket layer decryption. In an Identify Source Step the Endpoint Device from which the data packet was received is identified. This may be accomplished using a MAC address and or other unique identifier of the Endpoint Device using a unique identifier of Capture Module and or using any of the other identifiers discussed herein.

In an optional Direct Packet Step the received data packet is sent to a server configured to process data packets received from the Endpoint Device identified in Identify Source Step . For example TDR may include a plurality of distributed servers each configured to process data from a different set of Endpoint Devices .

In a Retrieve Key Step an identifier of Endpoint Device is used to retrieve a decryption key from Key Storage . Typically the identifier used in Retrieve Key Step is the same identifier used in Identify Source Step . Retrieve Key Step optionally includes retrieving certificate verification information from Key Storage in addition to or as an alternate to retrieving a decryption key.

In a Decrypt Authenticate Data Step the data packet received in Receive Packet Step is decrypted and or authenticated using the information retrieved from Key Storage in Retrieve Key Step . This may occur in various combinations. For example metadata may be decrypted while input data is authenticated or vice versa. In some embodiments an identifier of Capture Module is decrypted in Decrypt Authenticate Data Step and is then used in a repeat of Retrieve Key Step to retrieve certificate verification information from Key Storage . The certificate confirmation data is then used to authenticate other information received in the data packet or associated data packets .

In an optional Re Encrypt Data Step the data decrypted and or authenticated in Decrypt Authenticate Data Step is re encrypted using Encryption Logic . This encryption may be accomplished using SSL protocols private and or public keys.

In a Forward Step the data decrypted and or authenticated in Decrypt Authenticate Data Step and re encrypted using Encryption Logic is forwarded to an instance of Server . Forward Step optionally includes retrieving an address of the instance of Server from Account Data Storage . Forward Step further optionally includes checking an account status stored in Account Data Storage and or checking that the Endpoint Device from which the data was received is authorized to access the account or Server . In some embodiments Forward Step includes retrieving a login identifier and or password from Account Data Storage and adding this information to the forwarded data. The login identifier and or password may be unique to a user account. In some embodiments Forward Step is not performed unless the received data is successfully authenticated and or decrypted via one of the approaches taught herein. In some embodiments Forward Step includes retrieving an address of Server based on a 1 1 or X 1 mapping of addresses at which data was received to addresses to which the data should be forwarded. Data is optionally communicated from TDR to Server via a virtual private network VPN .

In an optional Receive Response Step a response to the forwarded data is received from the instance of Server . This data is optionally encrypted in an Encrypt Step . This encryption may be accomplished using SSL protocols private and or public keys. The resulting encrypted data is sent to Endpoint Device in an optional Forward Step .

Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and or described herein. However it will be appreciated that modifications and variations are covered by the above teachings and within the scope of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof. For example while input including characters are discussed as examples embodiments of the invention are applicable to non character input data such as screen captures images image subsets images of input fields click locations clicking of a checkbox GPS data voice or video data biometric data and or the like. For example in some embodiments the systems and methods disclosed herein are used to protect the initial handshaking routines that are involved is establishing a voice or video call. In some embodiments cookie data is included in the packets sent from Endpoint Device to TDR and forwarded to Server . The cookie data may or may not be encrypted by Capture Module . While some encryption and digital signing techniques are discussed herein one or ordinary skill in the art will understand that based on the teachings here other encryption and digital signing techniques may be used. These may involve any combination of public and private keys public and private certificates session keys symmetric keys etc.

The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used in conjunction with one time passwords. For example the device authentication may be used as credential information in the systems and methods of U.S. Pat. No. 8 527 417. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to automatically initiate a financial transaction with a merchant upon the user being located in a particular geographic vicinity as taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 527 415. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate cross border transactions at taught in for example US patent application publication 2013 0138561. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate dynamic gift verification and redemption as taught in for example US patent application publication 2012 0271697. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate a transaction using a dynamic authorization code as taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 527 427. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate optionally automatic bill payment. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate transactions using cloud based credentials as taught in for example US patent application publication 2013 0275307. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate two or three stage authentication with or without geolocation as taught in for example US patent application publication 2013 0275303.

The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used within a payment card so as to authenticate the payment card. The payment card is optionally prepaid. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used within a contactless identification card so as to authenticate the contactless identification card. The card may be active or passive.

The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate multi factor identification such as those taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 511 547. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate using a proximity payment device such as taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 515 872. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate control of applications on an IC card as taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 544 735. For example the systems and methods may be used to place a hold on a financial transaction card grant first use of a financial transaction card place transaction limits on a card and or the like.

The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate use of a cellular telephone or table as a credit or debit card. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate website security as taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 448 229. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate transaction recovery as taught in for example US patent application publication 2013 0246269.

The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate passage of card transaction variables such as taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 439 271. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate monitoring of financial transactions in multiple accounts and optionally adjusting credit based on this monitoring. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate adjustment of offline balances such as taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 458 092. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate encoding of user information such as that disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 401 964. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate access to open application programming interface systems and methods such as that disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 458 808. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate providing integrated electronic commerce marketplace and settlement functionality such as that disclosed in for example US patent application publication 2013 0232035. The systems and methods disclosed are optionally used to facilitate user identification using the methods and systems taught in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 548 914.

The embodiments discussed herein are illustrative of the present invention. As these embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to illustrations various modifications or adaptations of the methods and or specific structures described may become apparent to those skilled in the art. All such modifications adaptations or variations that rely upon the teachings of the present invention and through which these teachings have advanced the art are considered to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Hence these descriptions and drawings should not be considered in a limiting sense as it is understood that the present invention is in no way limited to only the embodiments illustrated.

Computing systems referred to herein can comprise an integrated circuit a microprocessor a personal computer a server a distributed computing system a communication device a network device or the like and various combinations of the same. A computing system may also comprise non transient volatile and or non volatile memory such as random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM magnetic media optical media nano media a hard drive a compact disk a digital versatile disc DVD and or other devices configured for storing analog or digital information such as in a database. The various examples of logic noted above can comprise hardware firmware or software stored on a computer readable medium or combinations thereof. A computer readable medium as used herein expressly excludes paper. Computer implemented steps of the methods noted herein can comprise a set of instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed cause the computing system to perform the steps. A computing system programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software becomes a special purpose computing system for performing those particular functions. Data that is manipulated by a special purpose computing system while performing those particular functions is at least electronically saved in buffers of the computing system physically changing the special purpose computing system from one state to the next with each change to the stored data.

