---

title: Insulated bag
abstract: Insulated bags having at least three unitary layers of durable material are provided. In one embodiment, a first set of unitary layers of durable material forms a front wall, a bottom wall, and a rear wall. Two additional sets of unitary layers of durable material form side-walls. Edges of the two additional sets are joined to side and bottom edges of the first set by adding webbing and stitching together the joined edges and webbing. Disposed within the two inner most layers of the first set and the two additional sets is at least one layer of insulation. The first set and the second set are sealed at their top edge to secure the insulation. Horizontal webbing is attached to the bag via stitching through the horizontal webbing, each of the layers of the first set and the second set, and the at least one layer of insulation. Vertical straps are integrated into the bag between the horizontal webbing and the outer most layer of durable material of the first set. On the top of the bag is a mini-flap. Hook/loop fasteners are strategically positioned on the bag to secure access points on the bag. Optional features can be incorporated into the bag (e.g., side handles, a top handle, a durable bottom, a grommet, and a liner). Other embodiments of insulated bags are described herein (e.g., a bag that has the outer layer of the first set and the second set sandwiched between two layers of horizontal webbing).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09265318&OS=09265318&RS=09265318
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09265318
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140416
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 042 760 filed Oct. 1 2013 which in turn is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 304 832 filed Nov. 28 2011.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Embodiments herein generally relate to apparatuses for portable insulated fluid bags. In particular the present invention relates to novel apparatuses for portable insulated bags for a jerry can.

War fighters for extended periods of time e.g. from 6 hours to 48 hours are in extreme temperatures. During these extended periods war fighters often need to carry water. The water can be unpalatable due to extremely low and extremely high ambient temperatures. For example water can become warm due to extremely high ambient temperatures solar radiation and or from vehicles that are used to transport the water. Neither warm nor hot water is palatable thereby reducing the voluntary intake of water.

A lack of water intake can initiate heat induced ailments such as heat syncope heat exhaustion heat stroke and dehydration. These factors can reduce the combat effectiveness of the war fighter which can be detrimental to mission requirements. Drinking cold water 70 F. can drastically thwart heat related ailments as well as improve cognitive function and endurance. When compared to drinking warm water water at palatable temperatures can increase exercise endurance capacity by 23 16 as well as reduce heart rate and psychological strain.

Implementing an advanced insulated bag in conjunction with a system which would allow war fighters to cool their drinking water via any military vehicle in a reasonable time and then keep it cooler for longer periods would improve the war fighter s physical stamina health and morale. It would also save money by reducing the quantity of bottled water used by allowing the war fighters to more effectively utilize and cool on site purified drinking water at any time during a mission. Keeping the water cool for longer periods via an insulated bag would also reduce of frequency of having to cool the water. In addition the war fighters would discard less water because more water would be consumed before it reaches an unpalatable temperature.

War fighters often carry water in a five gallon jerry can. Providing insulation for the jerry can would help keep the water contained therein at palatable temperatures. Prior art insulative bags for the jerry cans contain a single strap to carry the jerry can on the war fighter s side. Carrying the jerry can using the single strap causes the war fighter to carry the jerry can off the war fighter s center of gravity is uncomfortable and causes undue back strain pain. For durability the prior art insulative bags utilize a wooden bottom which adds significant weight to the insulative bag and the war fighter s carry load. The prior art insulative bags use a fiberglass based insulation which can absorb moisture. After the fiberglass based insulation has absorbed moisture the moisture become stagnant and allows bacteria to grow.

There are prior art bags that act as part of a hydration system. These systems have very specific designs to strap the system to a user s back. Some of these systems adjust a water level as water is removed from the hydration system. However none of these systems are designed and constructed in a manner described in greater detail below.

Some prior art systems merely include an outer insulative material sandwiched between an outer layer and inner layer. However these systems are not designed and constructed as described below.

Available prior hydration systems also known as coolers are hard rigid and occupy space when not in use. In addition it is extremely difficult to keep these hydration systems safely restrained to an object when the object sustains an impact. As a result of the impact these coolers and the contents therein e.g. water bottles can become dangerous projectiles.

Thus there is a need in the art for insulative bag that increases the time that water remains at palatable temperatures reduces weight is easier to carry reduces the likelihood of bacterial growth is less expensive than the prior art insulative systems has greater structural integrity than prior art systems and is designed to remain secured to a structure when the structure is impacted.

Embodiments herein generally relate to apparatuses for portable insulated fluid bags. In particular the present invention relates to novel apparatuses for portable insulated bags for a jerry can.

In one embodiment an insulated bag includes a body having a substantially rectangular footprint and four distinct exterior sides. A flap connects the body to a lid. The lid includes for distinct exterior sides. An interior of the body allows a jerry can bag to fit snugly therein. The exterior of the bag has handles on two of its sides to allow multiple users to simultaneously carry the bag. The exterior of the bag also includes two padded shoulder straps to allow a user to carry the bag across the user s upper back and in line with the user s center of gravity. The bag includes a lay of hydrophobic insulation sandwiched between two layers of durable material. A bottom of the bag includes an additional lay of a different durable material.

In another embodiment an insulated bag has at least three unitary layers of durable material. A first set of unitary layers of durable material forms a front wall a bottom wall and a rear wall. Two additional sets of unitary layers of durable material form side walls. An outer most layer of the first set and an outer most layer of the two additional sets are sandwiched between two layers of horizontal webbing. Side edges of the two additional sets are joined to side and bottom edges of the first set by adding webbing and stitching together the joined edges and webbing. Disposed within the two inner most layers of the first set and the two additional sets is at least one layer of insulation. The first set and the two additional sets are sealed at their top edges to secure the insulation. Vertical straps are integrated into the bag between the horizontal webbing and the outer most layer of durable material of the first set. On the top of the bag is a mini flap. Hook loop fasteners are strategically positioned on the bag to secure access points on the bag. In this embodiment no stitching goes through the insulation.

In yet another embodiment an insulated bag has at least three unitary layers of durable material. A first set of unitary layers of durable material forms a front wall a bottom wall and a rear wall. Two additional sets of unitary layers of durable material form side walls. Edges of the two additional sets are joined to side and bottom edges of the first set by adding webbing and stitching together the joined edges and webbing. Disposed within the two inner most layers of the first set and the two inner most layers of the two additional sets is at least one layer of insulation. The first set and the two additional sets are sealed at their top edges to secure the insulation. Horizontal webbing is attached to the bag via stitching through the horizontal webbing each of the layers of the first set and the two additional sets and the at least one layer of insulation. Vertical straps are integrated into the bag between the horizontal webbing and the outer most layer of durable material of the first set. On the top of the bag is a mini flap. Hook loop fasteners are strategically positioned on the bag to secure access points on the bag. Other embodiments of insulated bags are described herein.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used wherever possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

In the following description numerous specific details are set fourth to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art however various changes using different configurations may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. In other instances well known features have not been described in order to avoid obscuring the invention. Thus the invention is not considered limited to the particular illustrative embodiments shown in the specification and all such alternate embodiments are intended to be included in the scope of the appended claims.

The insulated bag includes a single sling strap for carrying the insulated bag over a shoulder and along one s side. The single sling strap is a nylon shoulder strap sewn to the bag on one side and attached to the bag on the other via a stainless steel clip not shown .

For durability and rigidity the insulated bag includes a wooden bottom not shown . The wooden bottom adds weight to the insulated bag . The insulated bag includes a fiberglass based insulation not shown usually about 1 inches thick sandwiched between two layers of heavy duty vinylized canvas. Although treated for mildew resistance the vinylized canvas and other materials typically used often allows moisture to seep through and into the insulation. Because the insulation absorbs and holds the moisture bacteria can grow in the damp insulation and wooden bottom. In addition trapped moisture can become stagnant and emanate an unpleasant odor. The weight of the insulated bag is about 8.75 lb. The insulated bag costs 115.00 United States currency .

Embodiments of the invention are designed to allow items e.g. a 5 gal jerry a bladder filled with fluid and or water bottles to reside therein and to extend the duration that the fluid e.g. water will remain at a palatable temperature in ambient temperatures e.g. up to about 120 F. such as the temperatures in Iraq or in extremely cold temperatures . For example the duration of time that fluids are to be kept warm is extended when the jerry can is placed inside of insulated bag described below . Various embodiments of construction of an insulated bag in accordance with aspects disclosed herein are depicted in and described in greater detail below.

In addition other bag systems can be used in conjunction with the material disclosed herein. For example this application incorporates by reference all of the material disclosed with commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 718 249 filed 18 Dec. 2012 and entitled BEVERAGE COOLING UNIT. 

The lid includes either strips of hook members or loop members also known as VELCRO around the inner periphery of the lid to secure the lid to the bag body . The lid also includes multiple V shaped flap cutaways . The flap cutaways allow a user to insert a hand even when wearing a mitten under a flap cutaway and lift up on the lid to open the insulated bag . When the insulated bag is open the lid is held to the insulated bag by a flap .

Although the flap cutaways are described herein as having a V shape those are not intended in any way to limit the scope of the invention. In various embodiments flap cutaways have any shape that allows a user leverage to open the insulated bag .

The bag body includes an interior sufficient in size for the jerry can to reside therein. The bag body includes side handles positioned on either side of the bag body to allow multiple individuals to simultaneously carry the insulated bag . The bag body also includes multiple shoulder straps to allow a user to simultaneously carry the insulated bag over both shoulders simultaneously for better distribution of the weight of the insulated bag less fatigue on the user s back and less fatigue on a single shoulder if the insulated bag were only carried by a single strap. Also on the outer periphery of the bag body are loop members or hook members which mate with the hook members or loop members to secure the insulated bag .

In various embodiments the insulated bag includes padding not shown on a portion of the insulated bag that is in contact with a user s back. Padding provides additional comfort to a user carrying the insulated bag .

In various embodiments the insulated bag includes a hip strap not shown to further secure the insulated bag to the user. The hip strap is secured to a lower portion of insulated bag and can be worn the around the user s waist.

The insulated bag can be made of various hydrophobic and durable materials. For example in various embodiments the insulated bag utilizes SPACELOFT insulation a registered trademark of Aspen Aerogels headquartered in Northborough Mass. sandwiched between two layers of CORDURA fabric a registered trademark of Invista headquartered in Wichita Kans. .

In contrast to the insulation used in the prior art jerry bag the insulated bag utilizes a hydrophobic insulation that is substantially thinner than the moisture absorbing fiberglass based material utilized in jerry bag . Although the SPACELOFT insulation utilized in various embodiments of the invention has an R value of about 10.3 inch and a thickness of about 0.2 to about 0.4 inches other embodiments of the invention utilize insulation having a higher R value than the SPACELOFT insulation and a different thickness.

Although CORDURA fabric has been provided as an example that is not intended in any way to limit the scope of the invention. For example various embodiments of the invention utilize materials having a linear density greater than or less than 500 denier and more durable than CORDURA fabric.

In various embodiments the weight of the insulated bag is about 4.65 lbs. to about 4.8 lbs and the thickness of the hydrophobic insulation is about 0.2 inches to about 0.4 inches. However in other embodiments of the invention the thickness of the hydrophobic insulation is different than the ranges indicated above. In addition the weight of the insulated bag can also be different than the weight range indicated above. The cost of the insulated bag is of the same as the prior art insulated bag .

MOLLE utilizes a Pouch Attachment Ladder System PALS which includes webbing attached to the insulated bag to secure a pouch s to the insulated bag . The pouches can be of various sizes.

In various embodiments the interlock attaching system allows the fastening together of the insulated bag with at least one pouch by a semi flexible vertical strap on the pouch and not shown . The semi flexible vertical strap is attached at one end of the pouch and then interwoven between the horizontal strap and a horizontal strap not shown on the pouch in a manner which permits the insulated bag and the pouch to be attached together in a removable fashion.

At the one end of the vertical strap is a fastening element not shown which after passing through the straps on the insulated bag and then again through the horizontal straps on the pouch is attached to the pouch by a fastener not shown also secured to the pouch .

The straps can be made of any suitable narrow fabric that are generally evenly spaced one from the other and attached across outer surfaces of the insulated bag . Spacing between the straps should be of sufficient dimensions to permit the placement there between of the horizontal straps on the pouch to reside in channels formed between the straps .

Specifically bag includes two side walls only one of the side walls is visible in a front wall a rear wall not visible in a bottom wall not visible in a first bag flap portion and a second bag flap portion .

Note that although the front wall e.g. front wall the rear wall e.g. rear wall and the bottom wall are described herein as being separate walls that description is only to make it easier to understand the geographical orientation of different components with respect to each other. It is to be understood that some components of the front wall the rear wall and the bottom wall are the same unitary piece of material. A more detail explanation is provided below regarding the description of .

Each of the walls i.e. the side walls the front wall the rear wall the bottom wall the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion is made of a durable material e.g. CORDURA fabric . Although the durable material is described herein as being made from CORDURA that description is for illustrative purposes only and not intended in any way to limit the scope of the invention. Other durable materials can be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention. For example various embodiments of the invention utilize materials having a linear density greater than or less than 500 denier and more durable than CORDURA fabric.

The first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion are attached to the bag front wall and the bag rear wall respectively.

The first bag flap portion includes a min flap . Illustratively the mini flap is depicted in an open position. When in the mini flap is in the open position a cavity is exposed. The cavity allows access to the contents of the bag without opening the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion . Illustratively depicts a bottle protruding from the cavity to demonstrate that a user not shown can remove an item from the bag while the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion are in a closed position. The mini flap includes a buckle portion illustratively a male buckle portion that interlocks with a corresponding buckle portion illustratively a female buckle portion located on the bag front wall when the mini flap is in the a closed position.

On an interior side of the mini flap visible while the mini flap is in the open position are a plurality of hook loop fasteners . These hook loop fasteners have corresponding hook loop fasteners on the first bag flap portion that interlock when the mini flap is in the closed position. The mini flap can be placed in the closed position by placing hook loop fasteners into contact with hook loop fasteners with or without interlocking buckle portion with buckle portion . However interlocking buckle portion with buckle portion provides greater resistance to an unwanted opening of the mini flap than just contacting hook loop fasteners with hook loop fasteners .

The second bag flap portion includes male buckle portions coupled to female buckle portions these coupled buckles are shown in as side buckle and are depicted in as uncoupled . Note that in only one side buckle is visible.

The front wall includes a grommet . The grommet allows a spigot not shown to protrude from the bag while the spigot is coupled to a bladder inside the bag . The grommet is made of a flexible material e.g. rubber silicon or CORDURA that allows movement of a portion of the grommet for insertion of the spigot while the rest of the grommet acts as a barrier between a bladder not shown and outside of the bag .

Stitching attaches horizontal MOLLE webbing to the various layers not shown of the bag . A more detailed explanation is provided below and depicted in indicating how the stitching secures the various layers of the bag together that are not visible in . The bag also includes pleats that also secure the durable material to other components to form the side walls the front wall the rear wall and the bottom wall. A more detailed explanation is also provided below regarding the pleats and the layers of material that are secured together to form the side walls the front wall the rear wall and the bottom wall.

In addition to serving as part of an interlock attaching system the MOLLE webbing provides additional structural integrity to the bag similar to horizontal bands on a barrel . Illustratively depicts two bands of horizontal webbing around the periphery of the bag . However the depiction of two bands is not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. It is appreciated that in various embodiments the bag can include more or less than two bands of webbing .

The stitching is stitched to the webbing in such a manner that spaces tunnels are formed for the passage of side handle straps on the side walls and vertical straps on the front wall and rear wall . Note that in one side wall and the rear wall are not visible.

Side walls also include part of a hook loop fastener for securing the first bag flap portion and second bag flap portion to the side walls . Although not shown in the interior of the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion include hook loop fasteners that correspond with hook loop fastener .

The bag can be placed in the closed position by placing hook loop portions into contact with corresponding hook loop portions not shown located on the underside of the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion with or without interlocking the buckle . However interlocking the buckle provides greater resistance to an unwanted opening of the bag than just contacting hook loop portions with the corresponding hook loop portions on the underside of the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion .

Although not shown in each of the vertical straps is sewn to the bag and the various layers of material of the bag in at least one location. Sewing the vertical straps to the bag secures the vertical straps to the bag at a strategic location s . However sewing the vertical straps to the bag does not prevent loosening of the vertical straps when desired.

In slack is placed on the vertical straps so that the vertical straps can be repositioned off of the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion and the bag can be partially fully opened. The male buckle portions are decoupled from female buckle portions when coupled these portions formed side buckle in .

A flap on the first bag flap portion is in an open position i.e. pulled back exposing a zipper that joins the first bag flap portion to the second bag flap portion . An underside of the bag flap visible when the bag flap is pulled back includes a hook loop fastener . The second bag flap portion includes a hook loop fastener that mates with the hook loop fastener when the flap is in a closed position.

On the inside of the bag is a liner . The liner is secured to the bag by snaps . The liner is optional and in various embodiments is made of a water resistant and or water proof material. For illustrative purposes includes an optional bladder and spigot . The spigot is inserted through the grommet and into the bladder . The spigot allows a user not shown to fill a secondary reservoir e.g. a cup or canteen from the bladder while the bag is completely sealed and mounted to a rigid structure.

In the bag rear wall is visible. Also visible are buckles that are used to loosen tighten the vertical straps by adjusting the tension that the vertical straps place upon the bag . The vertical straps can be loosened and one end of each of the vertical straps placed through the slots . Thereafter the ends of the vertical straps are brought back together e.g. via the buckle carabineers or other locking mechanism and tightened to secure the bag to the fixed structure . In addition a durable rope e.g. paracord a.k.a. parachute chord a.k.a. chord uses the horizontal webbing to help hold the bag to the fixed structure .

The outside layer of durable material is a unitary piece that forms the outside layer of the front wall the bottom wall and the rear wall of the bag . At the bottom of the bag and under the outside layer of durable material is a base support . In various embodiments of the invention the size of the bag varies and depending upon the size of the bag a base support is not needed.

On the inside of the bag is another unitary layer of durable material . An insulation material e.g. double bubble insulation is placed between the two layers of durable material .

Under the base support is a bottom layer of durable material . The bottom layer of durable material is folded along its edge. Stitches bind the two unitary layers of durable material and the folded edges of the bottom layer of durable material . Stitches bind the two unitary layers of durable material .

Under the bottom layer of durable material is a base layer . The base layer can be made of various materials e.g. a rubberized material a silicon or CORDURA . The base layer is stitched along the corners to the two layers of durable material . However the stitching of the base layer to the two layers of durable material stops in certain areas so that the vertical strap can pass through the bottom of the bag between the base layer and the bottom layer of durable material .

The vertical strap extends across the bottom of the bag and up to the other side in this instance the back wall of the bag . The extension of the vertical strap across the bottom of the bag is shown in .

Stitching and help to define and separate the interior of the front wall bottom wall and rear wall. The stitching and also provides and compartmentalizes insulation placed between the unitary layers of material .

On the top edge of the bag each of the durable layers of material is folded to form four layers of durable material. These four layers of durable material are stitched together and seal the insulation into the formed compartments. In various embodiments of the invention a layer of webbing e.g. seam tape is stitched over the four layers of durable material.

Snap portions are placed through the stitched four layers of durable materials. An optional liner can be used with the bag . The liner includes webbing e.g. seam tape sewn via stitching along its top edge and corresponding snap portions .

Note that although the front wall e.g. front wall the rear wall e.g. rear wall and the bottom wall are described herein as being separate walls that description is only to make it easier to understand the geographical orientation of different components with respect to each other. It is to be understood that some components of the front wall the rear wall and the bottom wall are the same unitary piece of material. A more detail explanation is provided regarding the descriptions of .

Each of the walls i.e. the side walls the front wall the rear wall the bottom wall the top wall and the mini flap is made of a durable material e.g. CORDURA fabric . Although the durable material is described herein as being made from CORDURA that description is for illustrative purposes only and not intended in any way to limit the scope of the invention. Other durable materials can be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention. For example various embodiments of the invention utilize materials having a linear density greater than or less than 500 denier and more durable than CORDURA fabric.

The min flap is part of the top wall . Illustratively the mini flap is depicted in an open position. When the mini flap is in the open position a cavity is exposed. The cavity allows access to the contents of the bag with minimal exposure to other contents in the bag . Illustratively depicts a bottle protruding from the cavity to demonstrate that a user not shown can remove a single bottle from the bag while leaving bottles that may still be in the bag unexposed. The mini flap includes a buckle portion illustratively a male buckle portion that interlocks with a corresponding buckle portion illustratively a female buckle portion located on the bag front wall when the mini flap is in a closed position.

On an interior side of the mini flap visible while the mini flap is in the open position are a plurality of hook loop portions . These hook loop portions have corresponding hook loop portions on the top wall and the front wall when the mini flap is in the closed position. The mini flap can be placed in the closed position by placing hook loop portions into contact with hook loop portions with or without interlocking buckle portion with buckle portion . However interlocking buckle portion with buckle portion provides greater resistance to an unwanted placement of the mini flap in the opened position than just contacting hook loop portions with hook loop portions .

Stitching attaches horizontal webbing to the outer periphery of the bag i.e. to side walls the front wall the rear wall not shown in .

The bag also includes pleats that also secure the durable material to other components to form the side walls the front wall the rear wall the top wall and the bottom wall.

In various embodiments the layers of materials and how they are secured together that form the bag can be constructed as described above with respect to . In other embodiments the layers of materials and how they are secured together that form the bag can be constructed as described below with respect to .

Vertical straps are positioned between the horizontal webbing and the outer surfaces of the front wall and the rear wall . The vertical straps extends from the front wall past the bottom wall up the rear wall and forms a handle at the top wall . Although not shown in each of the vertical straps is sewn to the bag and the various layers of material of the bag in at least one location. Sewing the vertical straps to the bag secures the vertical straps to the bag at a strategic location s .

The horizontal webbing and the vertical webbing provide additional structural integrity to the bag . Illustratively depicts two bands of horizontal webbing around the periphery of the bag . However the depiction of two bands is not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. It is appreciated that in various embodiments the bag can include more or less than two bands of horizontal webbing .

In the bag includes optional rings for securing a shoulder strap not shown to the bag . The vertical straps and or the horizontal straps can be used with paracord or other rope and or straps to tie down the bag to a stationary structure e.g. a fixed point on a vehicle .

Although the durable material is described herein as being made from CORDURA that description is for illustrative purposes only and not intended in any way to limit the scope of the invention. Other durable materials can be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention. For example various embodiments of the invention utilize materials having a linear density greater than or less than 500 denier and more durable than CORDURA fabric.

One of the ways in which bag differs from bag is that bag does not include the pleating contained in bag . As such there is no stitching of the durable layers of material through the insulation in bag .

Note that although the front wall e.g. front wall the rear wall e.g. rear wall and the bottom wall are described herein as being separate walls that description is only to make it easier to understand the geographical orientation of different components with respect to each other. It is to be understood that some components of the front wall the rear wall and the bottom wall are the same unitary piece of material. A more detail explanation is provided regarding the description of .

In only one layer of webbing is visible. However the bag includes two layers of webbing that sandwich the durable material i.e. on the two side walls the front wall and the rear wall . Greater detail regarding the sandwiching of the two layers of webbing is provided below.

The first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion are attached to the bag front wall and the bag rear wall respectively.

The first bag flap portion includes a min flap . Illustratively the mini flap is depicted in a closed position. The mini flap is secured in the closed position by hook loop fasteners not shown and front buckle . However when the mini flap is in the open position a cavity not shown is exposed. The cavity allows access to the contents of the bag without opening the first bag flap portion and or the second bag flap portion . The operation of the mini flap operates similarly the mini flap and mini flap described above and depicted in respectively.

The bag includes an optional handle . Note that in various embodiments of the invention bag includes other optional features such as side handles described above as handles and depicted and a grommet also described above as grommet and depicted in .

Stitching attaches horizontal MOLLE webbing to the outer periphery of the bag and to horizontal MOLLE webbing not shown on the opposite side of the bag . A more detailed explanation is provided below indicating how the stitching secures other components together that are not visible in .

In addition to serving as part of an interlock attaching system the MOLLE webbing provides additional structural integrity to the bag similar to horizontal bands on a barrel . The Illustratively depicts two bands of horizontal webbing around the periphery of the bag . However the depiction of two bands is not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. It is appreciated that in various embodiments the bag can include more or less than two bands of webbing .

The stitching secures the webbing to the bag in such a manner that spaces tunnels are formed for the passage of optional side handle straps not shown on the side walls and vertical straps on the front wall and rear wall . Note that in one side wall and rear wall are not visible.

Side walls also include part of a hook loop fastener for securing the first bag flap portion and second bag flap portion to the side walls . The bag can be placed in the closed position by placing hook loop fasteners into contact with corresponding hook loop fasteners not shown located on the underside of the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion with or without interlocking the side buckle . However interlocking the buckle provides greater resistance to an unwanted opening of the bag than just contacting hook loop portions with the corresponding hook loop portions on the underside of the first bag flap portion and the second bag flap portion .

On the front wall and back wall not shown an outside layer of durable material is sandwiched between outside webbing and inside webbing . Stitching secures the durable material outside webbing and inside webbing together. Stitching does not pass through vertical strap or unitary layer of durable material .

The outside layer of durable material is a unitary piece that forms the outside layer of the front wall the bottom wall and the rear wall of the bag . At the bottom of the bag and under the outside layer of durable material is a base support . In various embodiments of the invention the size of the bag varies and depending upon the size of the bag a base support is not needed.

Under the base support is a bottom layer of durable material . The bottom layer of durable material is folded along its edge. The folded edge is stitched to the outside layer of durable material .

Under the bottom layer of durable material is an optional durable bottom . Depending upon the size of the bag the durable bottom is not needed. The durable bottom is stitched to the outside layer of durable material . However the stitching of the durable bottom to the outside layer of durable material stops in certain areas so that the vertical strap can pass through the bottom of the bag between the durable bottom and the bottom layer of durable material .

The vertical strap extends across the bottom of the bag and up to the other side in this instance the back wall of the bag . The extension of the vertical strap across the bottom of the bag is shown in .

Inside the bag are two unitary layers of durable material and respectively . Stitching along the bottom corners of the bag help to define and separate the interior of the front wall bottom wall and rear wall. The stitching also provides and compartmentalizes insulation e.g. various insulation made by Aerogel placed between the unitary layers of material and .

On the top edge of the bag the outside durable material the inside layer of durable material and the inner most layer of durable material are stitched together. In various embodiments of the invention a layer of webbing e.g. seam tape is stitched with durable materials and .

Snap portions are placed through the stitched layers of durable materials and . An optional liner can be used with the bag . The liner includes webbing e.g. seam tape sewn along its top edge and corresponding snap portions .

It is appreciated that the layering and securing of materials as described herein in can be used to construct other embodiments of the invention described above with respect to and . It is also appreciated that various embodiments of the invention depicted in and utilize the layering and securing of materials described herein without utilizing vertical straps.

Although the bags have been described herein as bags that hold water. Those descriptions are for illustrative purposes only. It is appreciated that that the bags disclosed herein can hold other items e.g. meals ready to eat MREs .

In addition buckles have been used herein to describe a locking mechanism. However the use of the term buckles is not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. It is appreciated that other locking mechanisms can be used in accordance with the invention.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

