---

title: Data driven schema for patient data exchange system
abstract: A patient data exchange system comprises at least one device. Each of the devices implements an interface. When a device in the patient data exchange system publishes patient data, the device generates a metadata envelope that encapsulates the patient data. The metadata envelope conforms to a schema that defines allowable metadata attributes of the metadata envelope. When a device in the patient data exchange system receives a metadata envelope that conforms to the schema, the device determines, based at least in part on a metadata attribute of the metadata envelope, a particular patient data handling policy to apply to patient data encapsulated by the metadata envelope. In some instances, the metadata attribute indicates that authorization is required from an authorization service to access the patient data encapsulated by the metadata envelope.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467450&OS=09467450&RS=09467450
owner: 
number: 09467450
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140820
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 868 461 filed Aug. 21 2013 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

There are currently many heterogeneous systems for collecting processing and analyzing data associated with medical patients i.e. patient data . Traditional information technology IT systems may be built to generate data courier the data through defined secured channels proprietary or otherwise to an ecosystem of receivers for further processing analysis and exchange. These complex systems may be difficult to manage and maintain over their lifecycles. For instance technologies may evolve and may be introduced into new ecosystems with uncertain consequences. Furthermore these systems may be complex in part because of the varying and changeable regulations applicable to patient data. For instance particular types of patient data cannot be shared with particular individuals or entities without particular types of consent from patients. Furthermore such regulations may prescribe how patient data must be stored. At the same time patients and researchers may want to be able to have access to patient data. For instance patients may want to be able to access their medical records and search results on their mobile computing devices. Furthermore only limited security is applied at the data layer today. For example varying types of encryption EAS Blowfish DES etc. and levels AES where the key value may be 128 bit 512 bit etc. at various points components e.g. the network firewalls gateways storage devices may exist as data traverses cyber systems such as the Internet.

This disclosure describes techniques that may simplify systems for collecting processing and analyzing patient data. The techniques of this disclosure may place metadata attributes on patient data via encapsulation. The metadata attributes may include security and privacy schema attributes. In other words patient data may be encapsulated within a metadata envelope that has particular attributes specified by a schema. The metadata envelope may be specified by a system designer. The schema may indicate the allowable metadata attributes of the metadata envelope. The metadata envelope may be a set of data that logically encapsulates another set of data.

Encapsulating patient data in this way may make the patient data hardened resilient and more reliable on its own. The patient data may remain encapsulated within the metadata envelope even while at rest i.e. while in storage . This may be in contrast to systems that add layers of security only as the patient data is transmitted through one or more computer networks e.g. cyberspace . Encapsulation of patient data in a metadata envelope that conforms to such a schema may add an additional layer of security and privacy as close to the patient data as is possible adding protection and logic to ensure that the patient data is safe beyond its intended uses even if the patient data is leaked outside secured systems in which the patient data was intended to remain.

The techniques of this disclosure may improve patient outcomes. In accordance with one or more example techniques of this disclosure a data driven systems model made up of simple publisher subscriber data exchanges built from a standard device data schema may be executed. The data driven systems model may include as an example native security and privacy attributes enabling a more secure robust data exchange environment easily adaptable to emerging technologies innovative products and services.

Although the techniques of this disclosure are described with reference to patient data and are generally described with reference to a health care setting the techniques of this disclosure are not necessarily so limited. Rather the techniques of this disclosure may be applicable to other types of data and in other types of settings such as governmental data military data industrial data commercial data and so on.

In one aspect this disclosure describes a system for exchanging patient data. The system comprises at least one device that implements an interface. When the interface receives a metadata envelope that conforms to a schema that defines each allowable metadata attribute of the metadata envelope the interface determines based at least in part on a first metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope a particular patient data handling policy from among a plurality of available patient data handling policies that the interface is configured to apply. Each of the available patient data handling policies prescribes a different way of handling patient data. In addition the interface applies the particular patient data handling policy with regard to a particular set of patient data encapsulated within the received metadata envelope. When the particular patient data handling policy indicates that receiving authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data the interface requests to receive from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope the authorization to access the particular set of patient data.

In another aspect this disclosure describes a method of handling patient data. The method comprises receiving at an interface implemented by a device a metadata envelope that encapsulates a particular set of patient data associated with a patient. The metadata envelope conforms to a schema that defines each allowable metadata attribute of the metadata envelope. The method also comprises determining by the interface based at least in part on a first metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope a particular patient data handling policy from among a plurality of available patient data handling policies that the interface is configured to apply. Each of the available patient data handling policies prescribes a different way of handling patient data. Furthermore the method comprises applying by the interface the particular patient data handling policy with regard to the particular set of patient data. The method also comprises when the particular patient data handling policy indicates receiving authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data requesting by the interface from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope authorization to access the particular set of patient data.

In another aspect this disclosure describes a computer readable data storage medium e.g. a non transitory computer readable data storage medium having instructions stored thereon that when executed configure an interface implemented by a device to receive a metadata envelope that encapsulates a particular set of patient data associated with a patient. The metadata envelope conforms to a schema that defines each allowable metadata attribute of the metadata envelope determine based at least in part on a first metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope a particular patient data handling policy from among a plurality of available patient data handling policies that the interface is configured to apply. Each of the available patient data handling policies prescribes a different way of handling patient data. The instructions also configure the interface to apply the particular patient data handling policy with regard to the particular set of patient data. The instructions configure the interface such that when the particular patient data handling policy indicates receiving authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data the interface requests to receive from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope the authorization to access the particular set of patient data.

The details of one or more examples of the techniques are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the techniques will be apparent from the description drawings and claims.

A patient data exchange system may comprise at least one device e.g. a plurality of devices . The devices in the patient data exchange system may include implantable medical devices device programmers for implantable medical devices i.e. programmer devices personal computers mobile computing devices server computing devices and or other types of computing devices. The devices in the patient data exchange system may exchange patient data. Such patient data may include data regarding patients. For example the patient data may include clinical study data collected from a patient. In another example the patient data may include an electronic medical record or an electronic health record. In another example the patient data may include insurance records regarding a patient. In yet another example the patient data may include prescription medication data regarding a patient.

Each of the devices in the patient data exchange system may act as a publisher and or a subscriber. Each device in the patient data exchange system that acts as a publisher may implement a publisher interface. Each device in the patient data exchange system that acts as a subscriber may implement a subscriber interface. In this context an interface may be a hardware and or software structure that may act as a point of interaction between software and or hardware.

When a device acts as a publisher the device may receive store and or generate data that is to be protected i.e. protected data . The protected data may be encrypted and may include patient data. Furthermore when a device is preparing to transmit the protected information the publisher interface implemented by the device may generate a metadata envelope that encapsulates the protected data. In some examples where the protected data includes patient data the patient data encapsulated by a metadata envelope may relate to or may be based on one or more patients. In some examples the patient data comprises clinical study data such as data generated in a clinical study. The metadata envelope may comprise metadata that is associated with the protected data. The publisher interface may transmit or store the metadata envelope. A subscriber interface of a device in the patient data exchange system may receive metadata envelopes that encapsulate protected data. In some examples the subscriber interface may be a plug in or extension for an existing software application such as a web browser application or a PDF reader.

The metadata envelope may conform to a schema. In other words the schema may define a format of the content of the metadata envelope. The schema may indicate allowable metadata attributes of the metadata envelope. In other words a metadata attribute is an allowable metadata attribute if the schema indicates that the metadata attribute is allowable. A metadata envelope that conforms to the schema cannot include metadata attributes that are not allowed by the schema. For instance the schema may require the metadata envelope to include various attributes. Each of the metadata attributes may comprise a particular type of data. In accordance with one or more techniques of this disclosure the metadata attributes of the metadata envelope may specify how the protected data encapsulated by the metadata envelope is to be treated. When a subscriber interface receives a metadata envelope that conforms to the schema the subscriber interface may determine based at least in part on a metadata attribute of the metadata envelope how to handle protected data encapsulated by the metadata envelope. For example a metadata attribute of a metadata envelope may indicate a particular patient data handling policy to apply to patient data encapsulated by the metadata envelope. Hence in accordance with one or more techniques of this disclosure the patient data may be a declarative piece of data that one or more policies can be executed acted upon based on the schema attributes. The patient data handling policy may be a policy that dictates a manner in which patient data is to be handled. In this example a subscriber interface may determine the particular patient data handling policy based on the metadata attribute and may apply the particular patient data handling policy with regard to the patient data encapsulated by the metadata envelope.

For example a metadata attribute of a metadata envelope may specify that patient data encapsulated by a metadata envelope is to be handled according to a particular policy e.g. a governmental regulation an organization specific rule an industry standard etc. . In other words the metadata attribute may indicate a governmental regulation applicable to the particular set of patient data. In some examples the metadata attribute may indicate an identifier e.g. an index of the applicable governmental regulation. In this example a subscriber interface that receives the metadata envelope may process and or store the patient data encapsulated by the metadata envelope in accordance with the particular policy. Example governmental regulations applicable to patient data include regulations associated with the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA . In another example a metadata attribute may specify that the patient data encapsulated by a metadata envelope belongs to a particular class. In this example a particular policy may apply to patient data belonging to the particular class. In this example a subscriber interface may process and or store the patient data in accordance with the particular policy. Furthermore in this example if the particular policy is updated the subscriber interface may be modified without modifying the patient data or its metadata envelope such that the subscriber interface processes and or stores the patient data in accordance with the updated policy.

In one example a subscriber interface may receive a metadata envelope that encapsulates a particular set of patient data associated with a patient. The metadata envelope may conform to a schema that defines each allowable metadata attribute of the metadata envelope. Furthermore in this example the subscriber interface may determine based at least in part on a first metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope a particular patient data handling policy from among a plurality of available patient data handling policies that the interface is configured to apply. Each of the available patient data handling policies may prescribe a different way of handling patient data. In this example the subscriber interface may apply the particular patient data handling policy with regard to the particular set of patient data.

When the particular patient data handling policy indicates that authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data the subscriber interface may request from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope authorization to access the particular set of patient data. In this context authorization may be an act of confirming that an entity that is seeking to access the particular set of patient data is authorized to access the particular set of patient data. In some examples the authorization service only provides authorization to access the particular set of patient data when the interface provides evidence to the authorization service that the interface is configured such that the interface does not transmit the particular set of patient data in encrypted or unencrypted form outside the metadata envelope and does not generate copies of the particular set of patient data in unencrypted form that persist after termination of the interface. In other words the interface receives the authorization to access the particular set of patient data only when the interface provides evidence to the authorization service that the interface is configured such that the interface does not transmit the particular set of patient data in encrypted or unencrypted form outside the metadata envelope and does not generate copies of the particular set of patient data in unencrypted form that persist after termination of the interface. In some examples a remote computing device provides the authorization service. In some such examples the subscriber interface may send a request to the authorization service via one or more communication networks such as the Internet. In other examples a unit of the computing device implementing the subscriber interface provides the authorization service.

In another example the schema may specify that the metadata envelope is allowed to include a security attribute that identifies an authorization service. In this example the authorization service may provide to subscriber interfaces authorized to access the protected data decryption keys for the protected data. An authorized subscriber interface may use a decryption key for the protected data to decrypt the protected data. Furthermore in this example the authorization service may only provide the decryption key to a subscriber interface if the authorization service is able to validate that the subscriber interface meets particular criteria. The authorization service may determine whether the subscriber interface is trusted software. Furthermore in this example the authorization service may track authorization requests.

In some examples the authorization service may only provide access to the patient data e.g. provide a decryption key to a subscriber interface if the subscriber interface satisfies a requirement that the subscriber interface does not transmit the protected data in encrypted or unencrypted form outside the metadata envelope and does not generate copies of the protected data in unencrypted form that persist after termination of the subscriber interface. In this example the authorization service may require evidence that the subscriber interface satisfies this requirement. In some such examples the evidence may comprise authorization data encrypted according to an encryption key. In such examples a requirement to receive the decryption key for the particular set of patient data to the interface from the authorization service may be that the authorization service is able to successfully decrypt the authorization data.

In another example the protected data may include patient data and the schema may specify that the metadata envelope is allowed to include a privacy attribute that provides information about a consent given by a patient to share the patient data. For instance the metadata attribute may indicate a type of consent given by a patient regarding sharing of the particular set of patient data. In another example the metadata attribute may indicate a country in which consent was given by a patient regarding sharing of the particular set of patient data. In this example if a publisher interface receives a request for the patient data the publisher interface may determine based at least in part on the privacy attribute whether to provide the metadata envelope in response to the request. Similarly if a subscriber interface receives a metadata envelope the subscriber interface may determine based on the privacy attribute whether to accept the metadata envelope. If the subscriber interface does not accept the metadata envelope the subscriber interface may delete the metadata envelope and the protected data encapsulated by the metadata envelope. For example the subscriber interface may determine based on the particular patient data handling policy whether to delete the particular set of patient data. In this example the subscriber interface may delete based on the determination the particular set of patient data.

In this way the manner in which each unit of protected data in the patient data exchange system is handled may be governed by the attributes of the metadata envelope that encapsulates the protected data. This may obviate the need for complex heterogeneous systems for different types of patient data. Rather all protected data may be handled by the same set of publisher interfaces and subscriber interfaces according to the attributes of the metadata envelopes that encapsulate the protected data. Thus although different types of protected or unprotected data are handled differently in the patient data exchange system publisher interfaces and subscriber interfaces may determine in the same way how to handle particular pieces of protected or unprotected data.

Furthermore the publisher interfaces and subscriber interfaces may handle metadata envelopes that conform to different schemas. In some examples the publisher interfaces and subscriber interfaces may exchange schemas to enable extension of types of metadata envelopes in the patient data exchange system.

As indicated above many medical devices and their solutions are heterogeneous coupled and complex systems that collect process and analyze data from an implantable device so as to manage a patient s disease state via algorithms mapped to therapies. These solutions are regulated and controlled in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration FDA . As new information technologies IT emerge and are introduced into consumer markets users may need ready access to digital data. Current systems may be built and designed around technologies to solve discrete health challenges yet they are not designed with regard to the accessibility of the data that these technologies create store and or share. An opportunity may exist to define a standard data schema for all implantable medical device data or all implantable medical data from an enterprise or organization . The resulting standard may enable improved methods to share and exchange device data with other implantable medical devices and extend to external data domains hosted locally regionally or globally e.g. electronic health record system health information technologies national healthcare systems etc. . This standard may include a set of schema attributes focused on information security and privacy. This approach may form the basis for a data centric secure publisher and subscriber systems model for health data exchanges to simplify current complex systems.

The proposed approach may leverage projects to define a sample data schema including security and privacy components. This may be important because 

Clinical Businesses due to the nature of clinical studies are accustomed to working new solutions and are receptive to investigating new data proposals.

This approach may afford a real world exercise. After a system model is mapped and shared with other experts in the clinical domain a mind mapping of data flows and systems integration may be created. These models may be used to better understand where and how a data schema standard can be scrutinized and scrubbed across changing policy domains. That is the system solution may not need to be modified or redesigned to support a policy change with regard to the access exchange or usage of the data being described. Instead changing a policy engine within the system may make the policy engine compliant with modified or newly defined regulations.

In this disclosure a model for exchanging device data is developed and demonstrated throughout a healthcare ecosystem using a publisher subscriber systems model. This model may be advanced by the creation and execution of a standard data schema that encapsulates content making the model more resilient and secure. This effort may lay the foundations for many other data driven domain specific schemas for the seamless and secure access of data within complex just in time systems.

Information technologies are advancing. As a result consumers may become further engaged in building personal solutions made up of composite applications systems and devices to support the exchange of information e.g. financial personal social medical etc. to improve their lives. An organization may consider how its devices specifically the valuable data they generate play a part in this improved automation and data processing analytics environment. In some examples one possible interpretation of the organization s role is as follows 

Vision Evolve legacy complex systems into a simple secure and efficient structure using a publisher subscriber model. Medical devices and traditional information technology IT systems may converge. For example medical devices including sensors and telemetry are maturing and producing information data that has the potential to lower healthcare costs deliver higher quality care and be data mined to provide healthcare systems feedback and analysis to improve patient outcomes.

Goal Standardize medical device data with a standard schema having native security and privacy attributes. This standardization may form a foundation to make simple building blocks composed of basic publisher and subscriber systems model for information exchanges. The scope and results of this disclosure may demonstrate vision feasibility and investigate alternatives.

Why The publisher subscriber model may be a simple system that can be extended to build more complex data exchange models and ultimately improve a decision maker s ability to balance risk and reward. The flow of critical data may enable the correct information systems to analyze measure and respond with the highest quality and value. In addition this analysis may identify gaps provide next steps and suggest options on how to gather more data and refine measurements to determine metrics for improved outcomes.

How Conduct feasibility testing with a clinical project to standardize data for FDA submissions and include security and privacy which may not be a primary intention of the clinical project to improve data exchange controls. Experience gained may reinforce the vision mentioned above and or identify other opportunities for reducing complexity of healthcare data exchange to improve patient outcomes.

The techniques of this disclosure may prepare organizations to re evaluate their roles from a medical device manufacturer only to data authority publishing critical and valued information for a global health care ecosystem. More specifically one or more technique of this disclosure may define a standard data centric set of device data schema for all its devices sensors and telemetry . In some examples one or more techniques of this disclosure may suggest a data schema and demonstrate feasibility of an efficient secure and highly exchangeable data environment encompassing local regional and global Health Information Systems HIS such as illustrated by .

Human data domain may comprise the traditional location of implantable wearable devices e.g. pacemakers insulin pumps sensors drug pumps neurostimulators etc. that generate record and act on data sensed from patients. This data i.e. device data may be critical to algorithms used to manage and improve a patient s quality of life by providing improved therapies throughout the lifecycles of diseases. This device data may be critical sensitive and during a clinical trial valued information such as during a controlled scientific study to prove the efficacy and safety of a new product therapy technology being introduced for a regulating entity s approval for human use e.g. by an FDA regulatory approval board. The value of the device data may imply a need to ensure integrity confidentiality and availability of the device data. Today this data and corresponding disease state it is managing may be a monolithic data set that does not interface with other human data domain devices e.g. a pacemaker that shares information with an insulin pump . Although shows a human the human does not form a part of the techniques of this disclosure.

A standard data schema outlined later in this document may enable new data exchanges within the body from device to device. For example this communication channel may improve therapy reaction times early identification of co morbidity states and reduce patient hospital visits.

Programmer data domain may comprise a controller that uses a proprietary communications link to create a secure channel to the implantable device for the purpose of maintenance management and data acquisition. As shown in the example of devices in programmer data domain may send program data to devices in human data domain . The program data may comprise data to program devices in human data domain . Furthermore as shown in the example of devices in programmer data domain may exchange via publisher and subscriber interfaces data e.g. health data device data etc. with devices in human data domain and cloud data domain . Standardizing on a data schema may enable a programmer model e.g. a programmer for programming a medical device designed with common off the shelf hardware running standard operating systems. For example this hardware and a hardened operating system of the hardware may be used to host virtual machine solutions similar to the hardware equivalent solutions used today however all software components may have been encapsulated into a virtualized layer . Such a solution may reduce programmer costs and may enable multiple programmer options.

Personal device data domain may comprise the realm of consumer information technology product proliferation and the convergence of a patient s instant data access expectations. For instance personal device data domain may include mobile phones personal computers tablet computers laptop computers wearable computing devices and other types of computing devices used by patients. In the example of devices in personal device data domain may also exchange via publisher and subscriber interfaces data with devices in human data domain and devices in cloud data domain . That is in some examples a patient s belief that their medical information can be accessed anytime anywhere and from any device they have access to or buy from consumer electronic providers may be realized. US Food and Drug Administration http www.fda.gov MedicalDevices ProductsandMedicalProcedures GeneralHospitalDevic esandSupplies MedicalDeviceDataSystems default.htm U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 19 04 2011. Online available from http www.fda.gov MedicalDevices ProductsandMedicalProcedures GeneralHospitalDevicesandSupplies MedicalDeviceDataSystems default.htm provides some guidance regarding these types of system components. However it is the responsibility of the device manufacture to comply with these regulations. These regulations may be difficult to comply with in a controlled and well managed environment versus a new dynamic environment with little control of personal devices. A standard data schema model may provide an opportunity to build just in time systems where interfaces can control data flow that is auditable secure and compliant with today s regulations and devices. In addition this modularity may make the systems more resilient to changes in the future.

Cloud data domain may comprise the traditional Internet of resources data repositories services providers e.g. insurers personal health records hospital electronic medical records payers etc. and applications that interface and exchange data generated by devices. As shown in the example of devices in cloud data domain may exchange via publisher and subscriber interfaces data e.g. health data with devices in programmer data domain and devices in personal device data domain . This may be further refined by network controls that zone the cloud data domain into three types local Intranet on premise only data exchanges regional Intranet private only data exchanges that span geo locations and political boundaries and the Internet itself.

A standard data schema model may provide layers of information encapsulation that provide additional context like privacy and security as close to the data source as possible. The result of this encapsulation may be data hardening resiliency and reliability of the data being exchanged. To support this a different methodology using a publisher subscriber model further simplifies the complexity of the device data exchanges. This methodology may be enabled by the creation of taxonomy a schema adding context to data being exchanged from a publisher to a subscriber. Traditional systems may be built to generate data courier the data through defined secured channels proprietary or otherwise to an ecosystem of receivers for further processing analysis and exchange. This may be difficult to manage and maintain over the lifecycle of the defined system and its components i.e. technologies may evolve and be introduced into ecosystems with uncertain consequences . In addition the only security placed on data is encryption of varying types EAS Blowfish DES etc. and levels AES the key value may be 128 bit 512 bit etc. at various points components e.g. the network firewalls gateways storage devices etc. as the data traverses these systems.

The techniques of this disclosure may place content attributes e.g. security and privacy attributes via encapsulation on the data e.g. protected data to make the data hardened resilient and more reliable on its own instead of systems being built to add layers of security on the data s journeys in cyberspace. This data schema may add an additional layer of security again as close to the data as possible adding protection at the data level to ensure the data is safe beyond the data s intended uses if leaked outside secured systems within which the data was intended to remain. As data exchanges from each publisher subscriber interfaces e.g. software or hardware policy engines make decisions to add additional layers of defense more encapsulation around the content to be shared and the resulting data model may be conceptually similar to that of Russian dolls.

The following portion of this disclosure describes example tools used and results assembled from these methods to demonstrate that an organization embraces information technologies with a device data driven strategy to define a standard data schema for all the organization s devices and solutions. This goal may support a vision of an ecosystem made of simple data exchanges between publishers and subscribers thereby reducing data flow complexities and challenges with numerous regulatory and compliances. The results may be better patient outcomes due to the exchange of high valued device data throughout the healthcare s information technology s ecosystems.

To achieve a simple secure and efficient health care ecosystem having discrete publishers and subscribers collaborating and exchanging data a common shared data standard may be defined. Clinical business leaders identified in an internal clinical data standardization project may be targeted to investigate such a schema standard. The clinical business and clinical studies may be accustomed to looking at new solutions the challenges they introduce and may be receptive to the investigation of this proposed new data strategy. In addition the data maintained by clinical teams may be already warehoused in global IT solutions.

An example purpose of the project is to leverage a defined industry standard data model for all clinical trials to improve the FDA submissions processes. Gartner Inc. an IT research and advisory group published a paper outlining cost savings and corresponding areas in clinical trials where data standardization may streamline activities for FDA submissions. Gartner s suggestion was the use of Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Inc. s CDISC Study Data Tabulation Model SDTM version 1.2.

Table 1. Clinical Study Activities Streamlined with CDISC standards exhibits process areas that benefit from data schema standardization of clinical record data exchange storage analysis etc.

In Table 1 italicized text indicates clinical study activities that may be streamlined with standards. From Gartner s research the majority of cost savings including improved FDA submissions are process enhancements which equated to the reduction of eight months of clinical study efforts.

An important but unfortunate observation is that there is no privacy or security built into this model. However the SDTM has built into it a method to extend the standard for industries requiring further enhancements via the special purpose class. To improve the quality integrity and value of the clinical data the SDTM schema was extended to include two new domains. Privacy and security domains were included via the special purpose class and contained new variables and attributes which are described later in this disclosure.

An approach to leverage one or more techniques of this disclosure throughout an organization is twofold 

This leverage may translate into a simple low risk opportunity to gain knowledge and feasibility on proposed concepts. If the project for the organization presents any negative impact to the original project goals then the project can easily be shelved and the proposed security and privacy additions can be revisited at a more appropriate time.

It may be important to define a standard data schema e.g. define a taxonomy of standard attributes to describe the content generated stored and shared for all device data. This is because security of data and exchange of the data may be paramount for ensuring quality safety and building a foundation for future innovation using the data. As the trends presented above unfold device data may be subject to the five laws of data stated by Intel s Chief Information Security Officer Malcolm Hawkins 

What appears to be constant is the exchange of information between users applications and systems that are built to herd and shepherd data within complex digital systems. To improve the controlled exchange of information from container to container controls on the data being transferred may be applied. That is security or other controls like privacy may be baked into the design of information technologies data exchanges at the data level. Discrete publisher subscriber systems built to exchange device data metadata standards may be able to apply new policies refine controls and provide granular logs at their interfaces to help reduce the impacts to the threats above.

The evolution from status quo to a data authority i.e. a data publisher in an ecosystem of subscribers may begin by implementing a defined device data schema for improved data exchanges. Using new tools like the Trend Coupling Matrix Idea Mapping and Technology Space Mapping may work to re enforce the need for a device data classification standard for better internal data exchanges which may also benefit customers and improve patient outcomes as the data is shared outside systems.

In the example of Information Technologies device data may be a compelling technology and may be pursued within the strategies across all devices that collect store or transmit data for further processing and or decision making. A result of this exercise was the reinforcement of concerns related to the additional energy consumption in order to store transmit and maintain constant connectivity i.e. increased mobility to the Internet for sending receiving device data. Further downstream effects of implementing Information Technologies device data standards may result in prolonging the life of its users and have the potential of adding to the total costs of healthcare. However the net result of Information Technologies device data on other healthcare related savings e.g. inventory management return visits emergency room visits may result in a net improvement in savings.

The resulting data standard i.e. a defined device schema may enable improved methods to share and exchange this data with other implantable medical devices within the body and create new therapy opportunities external Health IT ecosystems and still afford an organization the ability to control the data flow ensuring regulatory and compliance. Additional results may be proof of therapy compliance and co morbidity detection from other device data coloration to mention a few .

Information technology device data may be critical to the organization s mission outlined above. The tools have demonstrated the convergence of Information Technologies device data and its use in the organization s technologies and the synergies with industry trends. The previous sections may convey the benefits and rewards of implementing a standard device data schema. The following section of this disclosure provides additional considerations regarding the techniques of this disclosure.

The previous sections are very positive outcomes and consequences of implementing a standard schema for an organization s device data. However the organization may need to address the following challenges at a minimum with the implementation of this new methodology i.e. standard schema for device data 

The publisher subscriber model may be a foundational two party transactional data exchange system used to build higher ordered and more complex ecosystems. The interfaces hardware or software may be designed to understand interpret and execute functions depending on the data being exchanged. More specifically the interfaces may comprise policy engines that gate data exchanges evaluated by the contextual metadata encapsulated in the shared information. This may translate into a more adaptive system because the interfaces add feedback to the higher order systems made of other publisher subscriber components and driven by the data. Further as data demands change or the ecosystem of publisher subscriber components are impacted by disruptive technologies e.g. new laws regulations intended data uses malicious actors or protocols and devices the interfaces or schema are modified to meet these new challenges. Other portions of this document provide more detail on the components of this model.

The following describes the sequence diagram of simple transactions from between a publisher and subscriber. The model demonstrates the concept of the data being shared yet protected at rest and in transit while data and encapsulated policy e.g. security and privacy are exchanged.

Table 2 below is a strengths weakness opportunities and threats SWOT analysis demonstrating the benefits of this new systems model over present day systems without a standard data schema encapsulation methodology.

Since the threats remain the same between the current methods of today systems designs and models the remaining items may become the differentiators for the techniques of this disclosure. Table 3 below indicates solutions to remediate potential weaknesses presented in the publisher subscriber model and standard device data schema.

The publisher subscriber model may be leveraged to prototype a sample use case representing a mock clinical trial. The purpose of the use case is to describe what data needs to be exchanged between the data repository safeguarding clinical trial data the publisher and the organization the subscriber .

Again one example goal is to place controls on the data to be exchanged as close to the data source as possible. For the objectives of a pan organization clinical project in accordance with one or more techniques of this disclosure the focus is on privacy and security attributes highlighted in the example of .

Inclusion of the security and privacy attributes may make data as resistant and resilient as possible for exchange in open yet regulated ecosystems. Below are the proposed lists of requirements metadata key and value pairs that map out the specific variables attributes for the privacy and security domains to be added to the CDISC SDTM 

Finally as IT systems change and become more integrated into the healthcare ecosystem laws and policies may continue to evolve. Leveraging a standard set of device data schema as proposed for clinical studies may position an organization to react recover and focus on exchanging its data more securely and compliant with privacy concerns. This improved exchange of information may increase the capability speed and control of data transformations analysis and feedback into other IT systems to support the organization s mission and improve patients outcomes.

The techniques of this disclosure can be extended into other digital data domains financial military energy etc. As more domains are mapped new task items may be defined to generalize these results into a periodic table of data domain standards with unique metadata for each domain which enables higher order data exchanges in future cloud universes.

Computing device is a physical device that processes information. In the example of computing device comprises a data storage system a memory a secondary storage system a processing system an input interface a display interface a communication interface and one or more communication media . Communication media enable data communication between processing system input interface display interface communication interface memory and secondary storage system . Computing device can include components in addition to those shown in the example of . Furthermore some computing devices do not include all of the components shown in the example of .

A computer readable medium may be a medium from which a processing system can read data. Computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media may include physical devices that store data for subsequent retrieval. Computer storage media are not transitory. For instance computer storage media do not exclusively comprise propagated signals. Computer storage media may include volatile storage media and non volatile storage media. Example types of computer storage media may include random access memory RAM units read only memory ROM devices solid state memory devices optical discs e.g. compact discs DVDs BluRay discs etc. magnetic disk drives electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM programmable read only memory PROM magnetic tape drives magnetic disks and other types of devices that store data for subsequent retrieval. Communication media may include media over which one device can communicate data to another device. Example types of communication media may include communication networks communications cables wireless communication links communication buses and other media over which one device is able to communicate data to another device.

Data storage system may be a system that stores data for subsequent retrieval. In the example of data storage system comprises memory and secondary storage system . Memory and secondary storage system may store data for later retrieval. In the example of memory stores computer executable instructions and program data . Secondary storage system stores computer executable instructions and program data . Physically memory and secondary storage system may each comprise one or more computer storage media.

Processing system is coupled to data storage system . Processing system may read computer executable instructions from data storage system and executes the computer executable instructions. Execution of the computer executable instructions by processing system may configure and or cause computing device to perform the actions indicated by the computer executable instructions. For example execution of the computer executable instructions by processing system can configure and or cause computing device to provide Basic Input Output Systems operating systems system programs application programs or can configure and or cause computing device to provide other functionality.

Processing system may read the computer executable instructions from one or more computer readable media. For example processing system may read and execute computer executable instructions and stored on memory and secondary storage system .

Processing system may comprise one or more processing units . Processing units may comprise physical devices that execute computer executable instructions. Processing units may comprise various types of physical devices that execute computer executable instructions. For example one or more of processing units may comprise a microprocessor a processing core within a microprocessor a digital signal processor a graphics processing unit or another type of physical device that executes computer executable instructions.

Input interface may enable computing device to receive input from an input device . Input device may comprise a device that receives input from a user. Input device may comprise various types of devices that receive input from users. For example input device may comprise a keyboard a touch screen a mouse a microphone a keypad a joystick a brain computer interface device or another type of device that receives input from a user. In some examples input device is integrated into a housing of computing device . In other examples input device is outside a housing of computing device .

Display interface may enable computing device to display output on a display device . Display device may be a device that displays output. Example types of display devices include monitors touch screens display screens televisions and other types of devices that display output. In some examples display device is integrated into a housing of computing device . In other examples display device is outside a housing of computing device .

Communication interface may enable computing device to send and receive data over one or more communication media. Communication interface may comprise various types of devices. For example communication interface may comprise a Network Interface Card NIC a wireless network adapter a Universal Serial Bus USB port or another type of device that enables computing device to send and receive data over one or more communication media.

In accordance with some examples of this disclosure communication interface may receive or send a metadata envelope that conforms to a schema that defines each allowable metadata attribute of the metadata envelope. Responsive to communication interface receiving the metadata envelope processing system may determine based at least in part on a first metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope a particular patient data handling policy from among a plurality of available patient data handling policies that the interface is configured to apply. Each of the available patient data handling policies prescribes a different way of handling patient data. Furthermore processing system may apply the particular patient data handling policy with regard to a particular set of patient data encapsulated within the received metadata envelope. When the particular patient data handling policy indicates that authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data processing system may request via communication interface from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope authorization to access the particular set of patient data. In some examples processing system may perform these actions when processing system executes computer executable instructions and or which are stored on computer readable data storage media.

Furthermore the subscriber interface may determine whether the particular patient data handling policy indicates that authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data . When the particular patient data handling policy indicates that receiving authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data YES of the subscriber interface may request from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope authorization to access the particular set of patient data . Subsequently the subscriber interface may or may not receive the authorization to access the particular set of patient data . In some examples such as the example of when the particular patient data handling policy indicates that authorization is not required in order to access the particular set of patient data NO of the subscriber interface does not request authorization to access the particular set of patient data . Furthermore in some examples where the particular patient data handling policy indicates that authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data the subscriber interface may perform some other action such as directly accessing the particular set of patient data.

A system for exchanging patient data the system comprising at least one device that implements an interface wherein when the interface receives a metadata envelope that conforms to a schema that defines each allowable metadata attribute of the metadata envelope the interface determines based at least in part on a first metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope a particular patient data handling policy from among a plurality of available patient data handling policies that the interface is configured to apply wherein each of the available patient data handling policies prescribes a different way of handling patient data and the interface applies the particular patient data handling policy with regard to a particular set of patient data encapsulated within the received metadata envelope wherein when the particular patient data handling policy indicates that receiving authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data the interface requests to receive from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope the authorization to access the particular set of patient data.

The system of example 1 wherein the at least one device includes at least one implantable medical device.

The system of examples 1 or 2 wherein the at least one device includes at least one programmer device for an implantable medical device.

The system of any of examples 1 3 wherein the interface receives the authorization to access the particular set of patient data only when the interface provides evidence to the authorization service that the interface is configured such that the interface does not transmit the particular set of patient data in encrypted or unencrypted form outside the metadata envelope and does not generate copies of the particular set of patient data in unencrypted form that persist after termination of the interface.

The system of example 4 wherein the evidence comprises authorization data encrypted according to an encryption key and a requirement to receive a decryption key for the particular set of patient data to the interface from the authorization service is that the authorization service is able to successfully decrypt the authorization data.

The system of any of examples 1 5 wherein the particular set of patient data comprises clinical study data.

The system of any of examples 1 6 wherein the first metadata attribute indicates a governmental regulation applicable to the particular set of patient data.

The system of any of examples 1 7 wherein the first metadata attribute or an additional metadata attribute of the metadata envelope indicates a type of consent given by a patient regarding sharing of the particular set of patient data.

The system of any of examples 1 8 wherein the first metadata attribute or an additional metadata attribute of the metadata envelope indicates a country in which consent was given by a patient regarding sharing of the particular set of patient data.

The system of any of examples 1 9 wherein the interface is further configured to determine based on the particular patient data handling policy whether to delete the particular set of patient data and delete based on the determination the particular set of patient data.

The system of any of examples 1 10 wherein the metadata envelope includes a third metadata attribute the third metadata attribute indicating a type of encryption applied to the particular set of patient data.

The system of any of examples 1 11 wherein the metadata envelope includes a third metadata attribute the third metadata attribute indicating a source of the particular set of patient data.

The system of any of examples 1 12 wherein the particular set of patient data is a first set of patient data and the metadata envelope is a first metadata envelope and when the interface publishes a second set of patient data the interface encapsulates the second set of patient data within a second metadata envelope that includes one or more metadata attributes wherein the second metadata envelope conforms to the schema.

The system of any of examples 1 13 wherein the schema is an extension of a Study Data Tabulation Model.

A method of handling e.g. exchanging patient data the method comprising receiving at an interface implemented by a device a metadata envelope that encapsulates a particular set of patient data associated with a patient wherein the metadata envelope conforms to a schema that defines each allowable metadata attribute of the metadata envelope determining by the interface based at least in part on a first metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope a particular patient data handling policy from among a plurality of available patient data handling policies that the interface is configured to apply wherein each of the available patient data handling policies prescribes a different way of handling patient data and applying by the interface the particular patient data handling policy with regard to the particular set of patient data wherein when the particular patient data handling policy indicates receiving authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data requesting by the interface from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope to receive the authorization to access the particular set of patient data.

The method of examples 15 or 16 wherein the device is a programmer device for an implantable medical device.

The method of any of examples 15 17 wherein the interface receives the authorization to access the particular set of patient data only when the interface provides evidence to the authorization service that the interface is configured such that the interface does not transmit the particular set of patient data in encrypted or unencrypted form outside the metadata envelope and does not generate copies of the particular set of patient data in unencrypted form that persist after termination of the interface.

The method of example 18 wherein the evidence comprises authorization data encrypted according to an encryption key and a requirement for receiving a decryption key for the particular set of patient data to the interface from the authorization service is that the authorization service is able to successfully decrypt the authorization data.

The method of any of examples 15 19 wherein the particular set of patient data comprises clinical study data.

The method of any of examples 15 20 wherein the first metadata attribute indicates a governmental regulation applicable to the particular set of patient data.

The method of any of examples 15 21 wherein the first metadata attribute or an additional metadata attribute of the metadata envelope indicates a type of consent given by a patient regarding sharing of the particular set of patient data.

The method of any of examples 15 22 wherein the first metadata attribute or an additional metadata attribute of the metadata envelope indicates a country in which consent was given by the patient regarding sharing of the particular set of patient data.

The method of any of examples 15 23 wherein the interface is further configured to determine based on the particular patient data handling policy whether to delete the particular set of patient data and delete based on the determination the particular set of patient data.

The method of any of examples 15 24 wherein the metadata envelope includes a third metadata attribute the third metadata attribute indicating a type of encryption applied to the particular set of patient data.

The method of any of examples 15 25 wherein the metadata envelope includes a third metadata attribute the third metadata attribute indicating a source of the particular set of patient data.

The method of any of examples 15 26 wherein the schema is an extension of a Study Data Tabulation Model.

A computer readable data storage medium having instructions stored thereon that when executed configure an interface implemented by a device to receive a metadata envelope that encapsulates a particular set of patient data associated with a patient wherein the metadata envelope conforms to a schema that defines each allowable metadata attribute of the metadata envelope determine based at least in part on a first metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope a particular patient data handling policy from among a plurality of available patient data handling policies that the interface is configured to apply wherein each of the available patient data handling policies prescribes a different way of handling patient data and apply the particular patient data handling policy with regard to the particular set of patient data wherein when the particular patient data handling policy indicates receiving authorization is required in order to access the particular set of patient data request to receive from an authorization service identified by a second metadata attribute of the received metadata envelope the authorization to access the particular set of patient data.

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented at least in part in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example various aspects of the described techniques may be implemented within one or more processors including one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components. The term processor or processing circuitry may generally refer to any of the foregoing logic circuitry alone or in combination with other logic circuitry or any other equivalent circuitry. A control unit including hardware may also perform one or more of the techniques of this disclosure.

Such hardware software and firmware may be implemented within the same device or within separate devices to support the various techniques described in this disclosure. In addition any of the described units modules or components may be implemented together or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices. Depiction of different features as modules or units is intended to highlight different functional aspects and does not necessarily imply that such modules or units must be realized by separate hardware firmware or software components. Rather functionality associated with one or more modules or units may be performed by separate hardware firmware or software components or integrated within common or separate hardware firmware or software components.

The techniques described in this disclosure may also be embodied or encoded in a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium containing instructions. Instructions embedded or encoded in a computer readable medium including a computer readable storage medium may cause one or more programmable processors or other processors to implement one or more of the techniques described herein such as when instructions included or encoded in the computer readable medium are executed by the one or more processors. Computer readable storage media may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory a hard disk a compact disc ROM CD ROM a floppy disk a cassette magnetic media optical media or other computer readable media. In some examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

