---

title: Strum pad
abstract: Various embodiments are provided generally relating to providing a strum pad on a user device. In some embodiments, a musical arrangement may be provided on a user device. A score of the musical arrangement may be tracked as it plays. In some embodiments, gestures may be detected on the user device while the user device plays the musical arrangement. In response to detecting the gesture, a component piece for the musical arrangement may be outputted. In some embodiments, the outputted component piece may correspond to the tracked score of the musical arrangement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573049&OS=09573049&RS=09573049
owner: MIBBLIO, INC.
number: 09573049
owner_city: Brooklyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140107
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 749 861 filed Jan. 7 2013 the disclosure of which is fully incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Musical instruments while being extremely enlightening and inspiring can be difficult for novices to play. Individuals who are not proficient in a particular instrument such as a guitar may still desire to jam with friends or to play along with a particular musical arrangement. However this may prove to be difficult when some of the friends involved in the jam have different skill levels or if the user does not know the particular chord progression of the musical arrangement. For example individuals who are at a lower skill level may not be able to keep up with others in the jam who are at a higher skill level. These issues may be compounded by the difficulties associated with particular instruments that require greater hand eye coordination or dexterity. For example a violin or ukulele may be more difficult for someone to play than a tambourine because of the need for one hand to form chords with an instrument s strings and the other to strum or pluck the strings. Thus it would be beneficial for there to be systems and methods that allow users to play a variety of component pieces associated with a musical arrangement such as a guitar or drum part in time with the progression of the musical arrangement regardless of the user s musical proficiency.

Systems methods and non transitory computer readable media for presenting a user with an interactive user interface that may enable a user to play along with a musical arrangement in time are provided. Such systems may include control circuitry communications circuitry input and output interfaces and memory including instructions.

Such methods may include providing a musical arrangement on a user device. In some embodiments the musical arrangement may be a sing a long such as The Wheels on the Bus . A score of the musical arrangement may be tracked as the musical arrangement plays. For example a chord progression of the musical arrangement may be tracked as the musical arrangement plays. The musical arrangement may play a first chord for a certain period of time and then it may play another chord for another period of time. For example the musical arrangement may play a C Major chord for four 4 measures followed by two 2 measured of a G Major chord. Thus the progression from the first chord to the second chord may be tracked as the musical arrangement plays.

In some embodiments a gesture may be detected by the user device while the musical arrangement plays. For example the musical arrangement may be outputted through speakers located on the user device and a swiping gesture may be detected by a user interface displayed on the user device. In response to detecting the gesture the user device may play a component piece for the musical arrangement along with the musical arrangement. The component piece may correspond to any instrument s musical part within a certain musical arrangement. For example a certain musical arrangement may include a guitar piano and drum parts. The component piece may in some embodiments correspond to the tracked score of the musical arrangement. For example the musical arrangement may be tracked and determined to be in a particular chord or key at the tracked position. The detected gesture may cause the user device to output the determined chord for the particular component piece in time with the musical arrangement at the tracked position. This may provide a harmonious sound at any point of the musical arrangement because at any point the outputted component piece will be in time as well as in tune with the musical arrangement. For example as the chord progression changes from the first chord to the second chord the outputted component piece may change from playing in the first chord to the second chord.

Such methods may also include playing a musical arrangement using one or more audio outputs located on a user device. For example the user device may include one or more speakers and or may be connected to one or more external speakers which may output the musical arrangement. In some embodiments a component piece for the musical arrangement may be assigned to a strum pad. The strum pad may be an interactive portion of a user interface displayed on a display screen of the user device. In some embodiments the strum pad may display virtual strings corresponding to a stringed instrument. For example the strum pad may correspond to a guitar and may include six 6 strings corresponding to the six guitar strings typically found on a physical guitar. In some embodiments the strum pad may allow a user to play the stringed instrument using the user device. In response to detecting a user input on the strum pad a component piece may output from the one or more audio outputs along with the musical arrangement. In some embodiments the musical arrangement may be tracked and the component piece output may correspond to the tracked position of the musical arrangement. For example the user may strum a guitar part of the musical arrangement using the strum pad. As the musical arrangement plays the user may provide strumming gestures to the strum pad and the guitar part of the musical arrangement may be played in time and in tune with the musical arrangement.

Such methods may additionally include orientating a user device to play a strum pad displayed within a user interface on a user device. For example a user may want to play a guitar part of a musical arrangement using the strum pad. In some embodiments the user may orient their user device substantially horizontal as if the user device were a guitar to play the guitar portion. In some embodiments the user may position the strum pad within the user interface based on a user preference. For example if the user is right handed the strum pad may be positioned in a lower right corner of the user interface whereas if the user is left handed the strum pad may be position in a lower left corner of the user interface. In some embodiments a component piece for the musical arrangement may be selected based on the orientation of the user device. For example the user may orient their user device substantially like a guitar and the guitar part for the musical arrangement may be selected to be played by the strum pad.

In some embodiments an input may be provided to the strum pad to play the component piece along with the musical arrangement. The input may be provided to the user device in a direction corresponding to the orientation and positioning of the strum pad. For example the user may provide a guitar strumming gesture to play the guitar part of the musical arrangement. In this scenario the user may have oriented the device substantially like a guitar and placed the strum pad in a suitable position on the user device. In response to providing the strumming input the guitar part for the musical arrangement may play along with the musical arrangement in time and in tune with a current position of a score of the musical arrangement.

The present invention may take form in various components and arrangements of components and in various techniques methods or procedures and arrangements of steps. The referenced drawings are only for the purpose of illustrated embodiments and are not to be construed as limiting the present invention. Various inventive features are described below that can each be used independently of one another or in combination with other features.

Control circuitry may include one or more processors operative to control operations and performance of a user device such as device . Control circuitry may run the device s operation system applications resident on the device firmware applications media applications and or any other type of application or any combination thereof. In some embodiments control circuitry may process one or more inputs detected by device and perform one or more actions in response to the detected inputs. In some embodiments control circuitry may facilitate communications between various components within device .

Memory and storage may be any component or combination of components within device . In some embodiments memory and or storage may include one or more storage media. Various types of storage media may include but are not limited to hard drives solid state drives flash memory permanent memory e.g. ROM or any other storage type or any combination thereof. Any form of data or content may be stored within memory and or storage such as photographs music files videos contact information applications documents or any other file or any combination thereof. Memory may include cache memory semi permanent memory e.g. RAM or any other memory type or any combination thereof. In some embodiments memory and or storage may be used in place of and or in addition to external storage for storing data on device .

Communications circuitry may include any circuitry capable of connecting to a communications network and or transmitting communications voice or data to one or more devices and or servers. Communications circuitry may interface with a communications network using any suitable communications protocol including but not limited to Wi Fi e.g. 802.11 protocol Bluetooth radio frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 1.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communications systems infrared GSM GSM plus EDGE CDMA quadband VOIP or any other protocol or any combination thereof.

Input interface may include any suitable mechanism or component for receiving inputs from a user operating device . In some embodiments user interface may include camera . Camera may correspond to any image capturing component capable of capturing images and or videos. For example camera may capture photographs sequences of photographs rapid shots videos or any other type of image or any combination thereof. In some embodiments device may include one or more instances of camera . For example device may include a front facing camera and a rear facing camera. Although only one camera is shown in to be within device persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any number of cameras and any camera type may be included and the use of only one camera within device is merely exemplary.

In some embodiments device may include microphone . Microphone may be any component capable of detecting audio signals. For example microphone may include one more sensors for generating electrical signals and circuitry capable of processing the generated electrical signals. Input interface may also include but is not limited to an external keyboard mouse joystick musical interface e.g. musical keyboard or any other suitable input mechanism or any combination thereof. For example input interface may include an external strum pad or external drum pad capable of being connected to user device .

Output interface may include any suitable mechanism or component for generating outputs from a user operating device . In some embodiments output interface may include display screen . Display screen may include any type of display capable of presenting content to a user and or on a user device. Display may be any size and may be located on one or more regions sides of device . For example display may fully occupy a first side of device or may occupy a portion of the first side. Various display types may include but are not limited to liquid crystal displays LCD monochrome displays color graphics adapter CGA displays enhanced graphics adapter EGA displays variable graphics array VGA displays or any other display type or any combination thereof. In some embodiments display may be a touch screen and or an interactive display. In some embodiments the touch screen may include a multi touch panel coupled to control circuitry . In some embodiments display may be a touch screen and may include capacitive sensing panels.

In some embodiments output interface may include speaker . Speaker may correspond to any suitable mechanism for outputting audio signals. For example speaker may include one or more speaker units transducers or array of speakers and or transducers capable of broadcasting audio signals and audio content to a room where device may be located. In some embodiments speaker may correspond to headphones or ear buds capable of broadcasting audio directly to a user.

User interface may in some embodiments correspond to an interactive musical arrangement or content management system allowing a user to purchase one or more interactive musical arrangements. In some embodiments a user may connect with the content management system using communications circuitry such as communications circuitry of . Upon connecting to the content management system the user may be presented with one or more interactive musical arrangements capable of being purchased and or downloaded to the user device. For example interactive musical arrangement may be displayed within user interface . In some embodiments a user may preview interactive musical arrangement by pressing preview button . For example preview button may download a small version a clip or one or more images or slides of interactive musical arrangement that the user may view prior to downloading or purchasing.

In some embodiments interface may include purchase button which may enable the user to purchase arrangement . Selection of button may cause the user to input purchasing information e.g. credit card information username password fingerprint etc. which may allow the user to purchase arrangement . In some embodiments the user may purchase arrangement through the content management system.

In some embodiments musical arrangement may include title information . Any information may be included within title information such as arrangement title and or arrangement description . For example title may display the title of musical arrangement . As another example description may present a brief written and or pictorial description of arrangement . Although only title information and arrangement description may be displayed within user interface persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any information corresponding to arrangement may be included and the previous illustrations are merely exemplary.

In some embodiments a user may view one or more additional musical arrangements presented by the content management system within user interface by providing one or more gestures. Such gestures may include but are not limited to swipes flicks taps hoverings motions retinal tracking and or any other type of gesture or any combination thereof. For example the user may swipe a finger in a first direction of arrow to be presented with musical arrangement and or in a second direction of arrow to be presented with musical arrangement . In some embodiments musical arrangements and may be substantially similar to musical arrangement with the exception that they may correspond to a different musical arrangement. For example musical arrangement may correspond to an interactive musical arrangement of The Wheels on the Bus whereas interactive musical arrangement may correspond to an interactive musical arrangement of The Itsy Bitsy Spider .

In some embodiments upon purchasing musical arrangement the musical arrangement may be downloaded to the user device. The various parts images videos and or component pieces associated with the musical arrangement may all be downloaded to the user device. In some embodiments after purchasing the musical arrangement the user may connect to the content management system to interact with the musical arrangement. In this scenario any actions taken by the user with the interactive musical arrangement may be communicated to the content management system. For example the content management system may provide one way communications to an application programming interface API . The API may in some embodiments interface with the user device and may allow any user action to be invoked or cause an output by the user device. For example a user may select one or more component pieces to mute from the musical arrangement. The request to mute the component piece s may then be transmitted to the API and the musical arrangement including the muted component piece may be transmitted back to the user device.

At step the user may select an interactive musical arrangement from a listing of interactive musical arrangements provided by the content management system. For example display may display musical arrangements and or . In some embodiments the user may provide one or more gestures to switch between and or view the various musical arrangements. For example the user may swipe a finger in a first direction of arrow to view musical arrangement .

In some embodiments process may include optional step . At step a user may preview the selected interactive musical arrangement. For example the user may download a clip portion and or selected images corresponding to the selected interactive musical arrangement. By previewing the interactive musical arrangement the user may be able to determine whether or not to purchase the selected musical arrangement. In some embodiments the user may not preview the selected arrangement and may skip optional step .

At step the user may purchase the selected musical arrangement. For example the user may select button and purchase selected musical arrangement . In some embodiments the user may provide login credentials and or purchasing information e.g. credit card number billing address user account password etc. to purchase the musical arrangement. In some embodiments the user may have logged into their user account previously while accessing the content management system and then upon purchasing the musical arrangement re provide and or automatically purchase the selected musical arrangement.

At step the user may download the purchased musical arrangement from the content management system to their user device. In some embodiments the download may be queued until the user device has a Wi Fi connection. In other embodiments the download may take place across any suitable internet connection. In some embodiments multiple musical arrangements or a musical arrangement and additional content may download from the content management system in parallel.

At step the musical arrangement may play on the user device. In some embodiments the musical arrangement may include an audio portion and a video portion. For example if the musical arrangement corresponds to a sing a long or a karaoke arrangement the words of the musical arrangement may be presented on the user interface as the audio outputs from the user device.

In some embodiments in response to purchasing the musical arrangement user interactions with the arrangement may occur via an API. For example the content management system may transmit data corresponding to the arrangement with the API. The API may present the arrangement to the user on the user device and any interactions the user takes on the user device with the musical arrangement may be transmitted back to the API. Thus the API may facilitate communications between the user device and the musical arrangement.

User interface may also include control region . Control region may include one or more options for the user while interfacing with the interactive musical arrangement. In some embodiments control region may include home button . Home button may allow the user to exit out of an interactive musical arrangement currently being viewed on the user device and may return the user to a home screen. For example after viewing a first interactive musical arrangement the user may press home button to return to a home screen where the user may be able to select or purchase other interactive musical arrangement to watch. The home screen may in some embodiments include all of the interactive musical arrangements that the user has previously downloaded or purchased to their user device. In some embodiments control region may also include restart button . Restart button may allow a user to restart an interactive musical arrangement currently being watched or played. For example while playing The Wheels on the Bus the user may decide to restart the song from the beginning by pressing restart button

In some embodiments control region may also include drum button bass button acoustic guitar button electric guitar button and keyboard button . A user may select one or more of buttons to turn on off those component pieces within the musical arrangement. For example if a user does not want to hear the drum part of the audio being played with the interactive musical arrangement the user may press drum button which may turn the drum part off. The user may in some embodiments choose to turn the drum part back on by pressing drum button again. Similarly the user may select any instrument button e.g. buttons to turn off and or turn on that instrument s component piece within the musical arrangement. In some embodiments one or more visual features of buttons may occur upon being pressed by the user. For example the buttons may virtually depress change color become highlighted or outlined and or may modify in any other suitable way to indicate to the user that a particular button has been selected.

Control region may include any number of buttons related to any number of functions and the use of buttons is merely exemplary. For example region may include a draw button that allows a user to draw figures or pictures within the interactive musical arrangement. As another example region may also include a chat button. The chat button may in some embodiments allow a user to communicate with one or more additional users across a network. For example a user may be part of a multi person interactive musical arrangement and may select the chat button to send a message to another user while playing prior to playing or after playing the interactive musical arrangement.

User interface may also include percussion region . Percussion region may in some embodiments include one or more percussion instruments for the user to play while interacting with the musical arrangement being presented within display region . For example the user may play tambourine along with the interactive musical arrangement using a tambourine button located within percussion region .

In some embodiments percussion region may include first percussion region second percussion region and third percussion region . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the use of three percussion regions is merely exemplary and one or more additional percussion regions may be added and or one or more of percussion regions may be omitted. In some embodiments a user may tap or select one of percussion regions to play a particular percussion instrument. For example a user may press first percussion region to play a tambourine. Each time the user taps on region a tambourine sound may be played. In this way a user may interactively play a tambourine and or another percussion instrument while playing along to the interactive musical arrangement.

In some embodiments each of percussion regions may allow a user to play one or more percussion instruments. The user may perform one or more gestures to select a particular percussion instrument from a plurality of percussion instruments stored and or programmed to be included with the interactive musical arrangement. For example third percussion region may display a tambourine. However in response to a user swiping across region a different percussion instrument may be displayed. For example swiping from right to left across region may cause a cowbell to be displayed within third percussion region . In this scenario the user may now tap and or select region to play a cowbell along with the interactive musical arrangement. Any number of percussion instruments or sounds may be capable of being played within one or more of the percussion regions including but not limited to tambourines cowbells hand claps bongos congas triangles vibraslaps cymbals maracas and or snare drums. In some embodiments a user may manually add in additional percussion sounds by importing samples of particular musical instruments to their user device and or user account on the content management system. For example the user may want to include the sound of a didgeridoo and may import the sound of an exemplary didgeridoo to their user device. In some embodiments the user may be able to purchase additional percussion instruments from the API and or the content management system.

In some embodiments each of regions may display a different percussion instrument. For example first percussion region may display a conga second percussion region may display a snare drum and third percussion region may display a tambourine. A user may tab and or select any of regions separately or at a substantially same time to play the corresponding percussion instrument. In some embodiments one or more of regions may include a same instrument. For example both regions and may correspond to a tambourine and therefore a user may select either region or to play a tambourine along with the interactive musical arrangement. In some embodiments multiple versions of a same type of musical instrument may be included. For example region may correspond to a small cowbell whereas region may correspond to a large cowbell.

User interface may also include keyboard . Keyboard may in some embodiments include a full octave of keys. For example keyboard may include eight 8 keys corresponding to a root note an octave above the root and the six notes within that root note s scale. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any number of keys may be used for keyboard including but not limited to sixteen 16 keys thirty two 32 keys forty four 44 keys or eighty eight 88 keys. In some embodiments keys included within keyboard may be colored to help signify to the user their positioning or corresponding note. For example key may correspond to a root note of the key of the interactive musical arrangement. Key may in some embodiments be highlighted in a first color e.g. red and or include a tip or outer region having the first color. In some embodiments key may also include the same coloring scheme as key signifying that both keys may correspond to a same note. For example key may correspond to the note C and key may correspond to the note C that may be an octave higher in pitch than key

In some embodiments the notes included within keyboard may correspond to notes harmonically in tune with the key of the musical arrangement. For example if the musical arrangement is in the key of C only notes included within the key of C may play when the user plays the various keys on keyboard e.g. C D E F G A B . In some embodiments as the musical arrangement plays the particular chord or key of the arrangement may change. For example a first measure of the musical arrangement may be in the key of C and keyboard may include appropriate notes for that particular key. However a second measure of the musical arrangement may be in the key of G and therefore the notes capable of being played by keyboard may change to include some or all of the keys in the key of G e.g. G A B C D E F . Thus no matter the key of the musical arrangement even as the musical arrangement plays the user may always play harmoniously in tune notes on keyboard .

In some embodiments one or more notes capable of being played by keyboard may correspond to a passing note which may not be included within the key of the musical arrangement but may still harmoniously fit with the musical arrangement. For example one or more passing notes corresponding to a blues scale of the root note may be included on keyboard . As another example one or more passing notes may be a sharped or flatted note.

User interface may also include selection bar . In some embodiments selection bar may include play pause button . Play pause button may allow the user to begin playing the interactive musical arrangement on the user device. In some embodiments if the musical arrangement is already playing selection of or pressing button may cause the musical arrangement to pause. The user may resume playing the musical arrangement by selecting or pressing button again.

In some embodiments selection bar may also include instrument buttons . Instrument buttons may correspond to any musical instrument capable of being played using keyboard . For example the user may select instrument button corresponding to a piano. In this scenario when the user plays keyboard the outputted sounds for the keys played may correspond to notes of a piano. As another example instrument button may correspond to an acoustic guitar. In this scenario when the user plays keyboard the keys may correspond to sounds representative of an acoustic guitar. For example a user may press a key on keyboard and the outputted sound may be a single note sounding like an acoustic guitar or the keys may correspond to a chords as if it were played on an acoustic guitar. For example if the user plays key a chord corresponding to the note of key may play. In this scenario a user may press a key for the note C and the a C chord may play. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that keyboard may play any instrument corresponding to buttons including but not limited to keyboards pianos acoustic guitars electric guitars sitars xylophones saxophones trumpets trombones French horns clarinets flutes and or accordions.

In some embodiments selection bar may include one or more additional features such as a record button. The record button may allow the user to record some or all of the component piece they may play with the musical arrangement. The recorded portion may be stored in some embodiments locally on the user device e.g. storage and or on the content management system.

In some embodiments selection bar may include an octave bar. The octave bar may allow the user to select a particular range of notes for keyboard to play within. For example if the user is in piano mode the octave bar may be centrally located so that the keys of keyboard may correspond to those keys near or substantially near middle C . The user may provide one or more gestures to change a highlighted area of the octave bar to allow the keys of keyboard to correspond to other regions of the instrument. For example the user may move a highlighted region of the octave bar to allow the user to play the region of a piano an octave or more above middle C . The octave bar may be especially useful in the situation that keyboard may only include a limited amount of keys. In this scenario the user may move the octave bar to various positions to allow keyboard to play various notes outside of the range of keyboard .

User interface may also include strum pad . Strum pad may allow user to play a string instrument along with the interactive musical arrangement. For example a user may play a guitar part of a musical arrangement by providing strumming gestures to the strum pad. In some embodiments the user may position the strum pad in any suitable location within user interface . For example a right handed user may position the strum pad in a lower right section of the user interface. This may allow a right handed user to easily interact with the strum pad with their right hand while having the ability to perform other tasks or operations on the user interface with their left hand. As another example a left handed user may position the strum pad in a lower left section of the user interface thereby allowing the rest of the user interface to be more easily accessed by the user s right hand.

In some embodiments strings may include one or more strings corresponding to an instrument selected to be played by the strum pad. Strings may include strings which may correspond to the selected instrument s component piece. For example a user may select an acoustic guitar to play along with an interactive musical arrangement. In this scenario strings may correspond to the six strings found on a standard acoustic guitar e.g. low E A D G B and high E . As another example the user may select a bass guitar to play along with the interactive musical arrangement and strings may include strings corresponding to the four strings found on a stand bass guitar e.g. E A D and G .

In some embodiments the user may select the instrument to be played by the strum pad from a grouping of instruments stored on the user device associated with the musical arrangement and or on the content management system. For example the musical arrangement may have one or more stringed instrument component pieces and one of the stringed instruments may be selected by the user and played via the strum pad. In some embodiments the component piece for a particular instrument may be played with the musical arrangement even if that instrument does not have a part within the arrangement. For example if there is no ukulele part in the musical arrangement the user may still play a ukulele part by selecting that instrument on the strum pad.

In some embodiments the user may scroll or scan through the various instruments available to be played on the strum pad. For example the user may select back button or forward button to see which stringed instruments are available to be played. As the user scans through the available stringed instruments the name of the stringed instrument may be displayed as instrument name . For example a user may currently have selected an acoustic guitar and therefore title may read ACOUSTIC GUITAR . In some embodiments as the user scrolls through the available instruments an image of the instrument may be displayed within the background of strum pad . For example image may correspond to an image of an acoustic guitar corresponding to title . As another example the user may press button to view the next instrument which may be an electric guitar. In this scenario title may now read ELECTRIC GUITAR and image may now correspond to an image of an electric guitar. Any number of stringed instruments may be played using the strum pad including but not limited to acoustic guitars electric guitars 7 string guitars 12 string guitars electric bass guitars acoustic bass guitars upright bass guitars violins cellos violas ukuleles harps and banjos.

In some embodiments strings may change depending on the selected stringed instrument. For example if the user selects the acoustic guitar for the strum pad strings may include strings corresponding to the six 6 respective strings found on an acoustic guitar. In response to selecting a ukulele however strings may include four 4 strings corresponding to the four strings found on a ukulele. For example strings may be displayed on strum pad and may be tuned to the respective ukulele string tunings e.g. G C E and A . As another example the user may select a banjo to be played using strum pad . In this scenario strings may now include strings corresponding to the five strings typically found on a banjo and having the tunings of banjo strings e.g. low G D high G B and D . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any tuning pattern for any instrument may be implemented and the aforementioned tunings schemes are merely exemplary. In some embodiments a user may be capable of selecting an instrument to be played using the strum pad as well as the tuning of the selected instrument. For example if the user selects a guitar the user may also select the guitar to be tuned in any suitable manner e.g. drop D tuning a half step down tuning an open chord tuning etc. .

In some embodiments a user may strum across one or more of strings to play a component piece corresponding to a musical arrangement. For example a user may select a musical arrangement to play such as The Wheels on the Bus and as the music for the musical arrangement plays the user may strum along a component piece e.g. a guitar part for the arrangement. In some embodiments the user may strum across all of strings . For example the user may strum strings which may cause the audio output to include each string of the currently selected instrument e.g. acoustic guitar to output a sound. In some embodiments the user may only strum across a select few strings such as strings and . This may cause only the output corresponding to those strings to be produced along with the musical arrangement. In some embodiments a user may tap or strum a single string of strings . For example the user may tap string which may cause only that string s note to play.

Typically when an individual plays a stringed instrument such as a guitar one hand strums while the other hand forms chords. The combinations of specific strings being held in specific arrangements form the various musical chords capable of being played. For example to play an E Major chord on a guitar a user may hold a first finger down on a second fret of the A string a second finger down on a second fret of the D string and a third finger down on a first fret of the G string while keeping the rest of the strings open. If a user strums all six strings of the guitar the resulting notes that will be played are E B E G B and E . These notes are all part of what is typically referred to as an E Major chord as they are all notes included within the key of E Major .

In some embodiments as the musical arrangement plays the output produced by strumming the strum pad may change with the music. Because the strum pad allows the user to play along with the musical arrangement with a single hand or finger there may be no need for the second hand to form chords. Thus as the musical arrangement plays the interactive musical arrangement may cause the strum pad to automatically change the chords that may be outputted in response to strumming the strum pad. For example the musical arrangement may be playing in the key of E Major . If the user strums the strum pad then the strum pad may output an E Major chord in the sound of the selected stringed instrument e.g. acoustic guitar . In some embodiments as the musical arrangement progresses the chord structure of the arrangement may be tracked. For example the musical arrangement may initially be played in E Major however it may change after a certain amount of time or a certain number of measures to play in G Major . In this scenario any gesture detected by the strum pad may cause the strum pad to produce the sound of a G Major chord. This may allow the user to play along with the musical arrangement no matter what the chord progression may be thus making it much easier for a user to enjoy interacting with the musical arrangement especially if the user may be a novice at a particular instrument. For example a young child may play along with a simple song such as The Wheels on the Bus by swiping their hand across the strum pad thereby playing the chords associated with the song without having to form the chords with one hand and strum with the other.

In some embodiments the user may tap one or more strings of the strum pad instead of strumming across all the strings or the user may strum less then all the strings and produce the same sounds that would occur if the user was physically playing the stringed instrument. For example if the musical arrangement is in the key of E Major the chord currently arranged for the strum pad may be an E Major chord. As previously mentioned the E Major chord may include the notes E B E G B and E . Thus if the user strums just the first and second strings the output of the strum pad may be the notes E and B . As another example if the user strums across the third through sixth strings then the notes E G B and E may play. In some embodiments a user may individually tap any of strings thus producing the individual sounds of those strings. Continuing the previous example if the user taps on string corresponding to the first string the outputted sound may correspond to that of the E note of the E Major chord. As another example if the user taps on third string and then fourth string the strum pad may play the notes G and B respectively. In some embodiments as the musical arrangement plays the chord progression may be tracked so that the user may tap individual strings that remain in tune with the musical arrangement as the musical arrangement plays. For example the musical arrangement may initially be in E Major and the user may have tapped on string corresponding to the note E . After a certain amount of time or measures the key may change to a G Major and therefore string may now correspond to the note G . Thus the outputted sound of string may remain in tune with the musical arrangement as the chords of the musical arrangement change.

Chart may also include chord progression . Chord progression may indicate the chords to be played by a musical arrangement. In some embodiments chord progression may indicate a portion of the musical arrangement however any amount of the musical arrangement may be charted. For example chord progression may include chords and . Chord may correspond to a first chord or root chord of key . For example chord may correspond to a C Major chord which may be the root chord or note of the interactive musical arrangement playing in the key of C Major . Chords and may respectively correspond to a fourth and fifth chord or note of key . For example the fourth and fifth chords of C Major are F Major and G Major respectively. Thus as the musical arrangement plays chord progression may indicate that the musical arrangement plays a first chord a fourth chord and then a fifth chord.

Strum indicators may indicate a particular point during the musical arrangement where the user may provide a gesture to a strum pad such as strum pad of . For example as the musical arrangement plays the arrangement and its corresponding chord progression may be tracked. Thus if a user provides a gesture while chord progression of the musical arrangement is playing chord the outputted audio signal may correspond to chord . For example if the user provides a gesture to the strum pad while the musical arrangement plays in C Major e.g. chord the outputted component piece from the user device may be a C Major chord. As another example if the user provides a gesture to the strum pad while the musical arrangement plays in G Major e.g. chord the outputted component piece may be an F Major .

In some embodiments the outputted component piece may change in response to chord progression changing from a first chord to a second chord. For example the user may continually strum on the strum pad as the chord progression of the musical arrangement is tracked. As the user strums the outputted audio signal may change in response to the chord changes of the chord progression. For example as the user strums chord progression may change from being in the key of chord to being in the key of chord . Thus the outputted audio signal may change from playing a C Major chord to an F Major chord in response to the musical arrangement changing the key that it is in.

The user s strumming may allow the user to output audio that may be musically in time with the musical arrangement. This may allow the user to continually play music that is harmonious with the interactive musical arrangement. By enabling the user to continually play music along with the musical arrangement users having a variety of skill levels may each take part in playing the musical arrangement and play harmonious music. This may be especially beneficial for young children who may not have developed the coordination to play instruments such as the guitar but still would like to play along with interactive musical arrangements.

In some embodiments strumming indicators may correspond to any type of input by the user. For example the user may pluck an individual string or strings on the strum pad. Indicators may in this scenario correspond to plucks by the user. In some embodiments the user may be able to pluck individual strings of the strum pad s selected instrument and each string may be maintained in tune with the chord progression. For example as chord progression of the musical arrangement plays the user may pluck individual strings e.g. strings of associated with an acoustic guitar playable with the strum pad.

As an illustrative example the musical arrangement may play music following chord progression . The user may individually pluck or tap one or more of the strings on the strum pad e.g. strings and individual string sounds may output from the user device. In some embodiments the individual string outputs may correspond to the key currently being played by chord progression of the musical arrangement as well as the notes of the various strings that make up that particular chord. For example while the musical arrangement plays in the key of chord corresponding to C Major the user may tap or pluck an individual string from strings of which collectively may correspond to the C Major chord. Thus any string that the user taps may be both in tune and in time with the musical arrangement as it plays. The user may continually tap strings as chord progression is tracked and the tapped strings may output audio that may conform to the key associated with the chord progression of the musical arrangement. Thus even as the musical arrangement plays the user may tap on strings to play notes in time and in tune with the musical arrangement.

At step a score of the musical arrangement may be tracked as it plays. In some embodiments as the musical arrangement plays the chord progression associated with the musical arrangement may be tracked. For example chord progression of may track a musical arrangement being played on a user device. By tracking the score of the musical arrangement a current chord of the musical arrangement may be determined. For example chord progression may indicate that the musical arrangement is playing a C Major chord followed by a F Major chord followed by a G Major chord.

At step a gesture may be detected on the user device while the user device plays the musical arrangement. In some embodiments the user device may include a display screen such as a touch sensing display screen. The display screen may in some embodiments display a user interface including a strum pad. For example user interface of may present strum pad therein. In some embodiments the user may provide a gesture to the user interface that may be detected by the input circuitry on the user device and processed by control circuitry on the user device. For example in response to detecting a user swiping across a strum pad an audio signal may be produced.

In some embodiments the strum pad may include one or more virtual strings corresponding to one or more stringed instruments capable of being played on the strum pad. For example strum pad of may include strings . In some embodiments strings may correspond to a selected component piece to be played with the musical arrangement. For example strum pad may have been selected to output audio corresponding to an acoustic guitar and therefore strings may include virtual strings corresponding to the six 6 strings typically found on an acoustic guitar e.g. low E A D G B E . In some embodiments the detected user input may correspond to the user providing a virtual strumming motion across all the strings two or more strings and or a tap or a pluck of one or more strings. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any number of stringed instruments having any number of strings may be displayed within the strum pad and the use of an acoustic guitar having six 6 strings is merely exemplary.

At step the user device may output a component piece for the musical arrangement. In some embodiments the outputted component piece may be played in response to the gesture being detected on the user device. For example the user may strum on strum pad and a component piece corresponding to a selected stringed instrument e.g. guitar part may output in response. In some embodiments the outputted component piece may correspond to the tracked score of the musical arrangement. For example chord progression may indicate that the musical arrangement may change from playing music in the key of chord to playing music in the key of chord . In response to detecting a gesture such as a strum while the chord progression is playing chord the user device may output a component piece corresponding to chord . Furthermore if the user strums the strum pad while the chord progression plays in the key of chord the outputted component piece of the strum pad may correspond to chord . Thus regardless of when the user may strum or provide a gesture to the user device the outputted component piece may be in time with the musical arrangement as well as be harmonically in tune with the current position chord or key of the musical arrangement.

In some embodiments the key of the musical arrangement may be determined. For example if the selected musical arrangement is in the key of C Major the user device and or the strum pad may determine the key and provide component pieces in tune with the key of C Major . Thus only chords in the key of the musical arrangement may be outputted by the selected component piece. In this scenario harmonious sounds for the musical arrangement may be produced.

In some embodiments the chords in the key of the musical arrangement may be based on the root note of the key of the musical arrangement. Continuing the aforementioned example if the musical arrangement is in the key of C Major the root note may be C . If the key of the musical arrangement is a major key e.g. C Major then the chords of that key correspond to a major chord of the root note fourth note and fifth note and minor chords of the second third sixth and seventh notes. In other keys such as a minor key the chords may vary. For example in the key of A Minor the root note may be A and the chords within the key may include a minor chord of the first second fourth and fifth notes whereas the third sixth and seventh notes may be major chords.

At step a component piece from the musical arrangement may be assigned to a strum pad. In some embodiments the user device may include a display screen. The display screen may in some embodiments display a strum pad such as strum pad of . The strum pad may capable of outputting audio that may correspond to a stringed instrument. For example the strum pad may be assigned a particular stringed instrument such as an acoustic guitar. Any stringed instrument may be assigned to the strum pad including but not limited to acoustic guitars electric guitars violins violas cellos bass guitars ukuleles banjos and harps. In some embodiments a picture of the assigned stringed instrument for the component piece may be displayed within the strum pad on the user interface. For example strum pad of may be assigned an acoustic guitar part as its component piece and image may correspond to an image of an acoustic guitar.

At step a user input may be detected with the strum pad. For example the user may perform a strumming gesture or motion on the strum pad. In some embodiments the type of user input detected by the strum pad may correspond to the component piece and associated stringed instrument assigned to the strum pad. For example the detected gesture may be a strumming motion similar to a motion an individual would provide while playing a physical acoustic guitar. As another example the detected user input may be a pluck or slap which may correspond to a bass guitar and therefore the strum pad may be assigned a bass guitar part.

At step an audio signal for the assigned component piece may be outputted in response to detecting the user input. In some embodiments the audio signal may be outputted using one or more audio outputs of the user device in addition to the musical arrangement. For example the user device may include one or more speakers for outputting sound. In response to the user providing an input e.g. strumming gesture the component piece assigned to the strum pad may output the corresponding audio signal through the one or more speakers. In some embodiments the user may select one or more component pieces to turn on or off while the musical arrangement plays. For example the musical arrangement may include a guitar a bass guitar vocals and percussion. A user may select one or more buttons such as buttons of to turn on or off one or more of the aforementioned examples.

At step the strum pad may be positioned on the user interface. In some embodiments the positing of the strum pad may be based on a user preference. Strum pad of may for example be positioned in any suitable portion of user interface . For example if the user of the device is right handed the user may position the strum pad in a lower right portion of user interface thus making it easier for a right handed user to interact with strum pad while being capable of interacting with the other features of user interface with their left hand. Conversely if the user of the device is left handed the user may position strum pad in a lower left portion of user interface . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the user may position the strum pad at any suitable position on user interface based on any user preference. For example the user may rotate the strum pad 90 degrees and or enlarge or shrink the strum pad.

At step a component piece to be played by the strum pad may be selected based on the orientation of the user device. For example the user may hold the user device substantially horizontal like a guitar. In this scenario a guitar may be selected as the component piece for the strum pad based on the device being orientated substantially like a guitar would be. As another example the user may have oriented their user device like a harp in a substantially vertical position. In this scenario the selected component piece for the strum pad may be a harp based on the user device being oriented substantially like a harp would be positioned.

At step a musical arrangement may be selected to be played along with the component piece. In some embodiments the musical arrangement may be selected because it may include the selected component piece. For example if the selected component piece is a guitar the user may select a musical arrangement including a guitar part. However the musical arrangement may also be selected because it may be capable of having a component piece added or played along with it. For example a song may not have a guitar part but based on the musical arrangement s chord progression a guitar part may be capable of being played along with the musical arrangement.

At step an input may be provided to the strum pad. In some embodiments the provided input may cause the user device to play the selected component piece along with the musical arrangement. For example if the selected component piece is a guitar then in response to providing an input to the strum pad a guitar part may play along with the musical arrangement from the user device. In some embodiments the input may be provided in a direction corresponding to the orientation and position of the strum pad. For example strum pad of may be positioned such that strings are horizontal and parallel to one another. In this scenario the user may swipe the strum pad in an up down and or down up direction. Swiping the strum pad in those directions may cause the selected component piece for the strum pad to play on the user device. In some embodiments the direction of the input may also correspond to the orientation of the strum pad. For example the user may be holding the user device vertical and therefore the strum pad may be positioned such that the strings are vertical. This may cause the strum pad to look substantially similar to strum pad with the exception that it may be rotated 90 degrees to the right or left. In this scenario the user may provide an input in the direction of the strings of the strum pad which may be left right and or right left. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any orientation and position of the user device and strum pad may be used and the input provided by the user may be in any suitable direction s and the use of a left right and or up down or vice versa input is merely exemplary.

At step a strum pad may detect a gesture. The strum pad may be displayed on a user interface displayed on a user device. For example strum pad of may be displayed on user interface . In some embodiments the strum pad may include virtual strings such as strings of strum pad of . The gesture may in some embodiments interact with a first virtual string of the strum pad. For example the first gesture may correspond to the user tapping on string . In some embodiments the first gesture may interact with two or more strings of the strum pad. For example the user may provide a swiping motion across strings and .

At step a first note of the component piece may be outputted in response to the detected gesture. In some embodiments the first note may be in a key of the musical arrangement. For example the musical arrangement may be in the key of C Major and the first note may correspond to a note within the key of C Major . In some embodiments the musical arrangement may have a chord progression that may change as the score of the musical arrangement plays. For example the musical arrangement may initially play one measure in the key of C Major followed by a measure of F Major . In this scenario as the musical arrangement plays the user may provide the gesture and depending on where the tracked score of the musical arrangement may be a note from either the C Major chord or the F Major chord may be outputted. This may be substantially similar to what a user may experience if they were playing a physical guitar except the position of the chords may be automatically performed in time with the musical arrangement and the inputted gesture may correspond to the user s strumming hand.

The various embodiments described herein may be implemented using a variety of means including but not limited to software hardware and or a combination of software and hardware. The embodiments may also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may be any data storage device that is capable of storing data that can be read by a computer system. Various types of computer readable media include but are not limited to read only memory random access memory CD ROMs DVDs magnetic tape or optical data storage devices or any other type of medium or any combination thereof. The computer readable medium may be distributed over network coupled computer systems. Furthermore the above described embodiments are presented for the purposes of illustration are not to be construed as limitations.

