---

title: Systems, devices, and methods for obfuscating location
abstract: Described are techniques and systems for obfuscating a location of a computing device as determined using data acquired from wireless devices within communication range of the computing device. The computing device may be configured to generate report data that includes synthetic data which is representative of data of a different location than the actual location of the computing device. As a result, when the report data is analyzed, the computing device appears to be present at an apparent location which differs from the actual location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635547&OS=09635547&RS=09635547
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09635547
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140728
---
Services may determine locations of computing devices such as mobile devices. For example the services may determine locations by analyzing service set identifiers SSIDs that are acquired by the computing devices from other computing devices operating in an access point mode. Users of the computing devices or service providers of the computing devices may not wish for certain services to be able to determine the actual locations of the computing devices.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Services may determine the location of a computing device e.g. a mobile device or a stationary device . A service may include one or more servers. The location of the computing device may include geolocation data such as latitude and longitude of the computing device a street address room designation e.g. kitchen banquet hall room A and so forth. The computing device may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer a wearable computing device an electronic book eBook reader an in vehicle communication system a desktop computer a television a gaming console a server and so forth.

The service may use a database for looking up the location of the computing device based on information provided by the computing device. In one example the information provided by the client device includes a list identifying detected wireless networks. The service may determine a location of the client by looking up a location that is associated with the received list. However users of the computing device or a service provider of the computing device may not wish for certain services to be able to determine the actual locations of the computing device.

This disclosure describes systems devices and methods for obfuscating locations of the computing device. In one example the location of the computing device is obfuscated when the service is unable to determine a true or actual location of the computing device. In another example the location of the computing device is obfuscated when the service determines that the computing device is located at a location other than the actual location of the computing device.

In some implementations the location is obfuscated based on synthetic data. The synthetic data may represent information transmitting from devices that are located at locations other than the actual location of the computing device. In one example the information transmitting from the devices includes information representative of the device transmitting the information. The synthetic data may include identification information such as a SSID. The SSID may include a string. For example a Wi Fi compliant SSID may be 1 to 32 bytes in length. In another example the synthetic data may include identification information such as a basic service set identification BSSID . The BSSID may be described as unique information that identifies a network hub for connecting multiple network devices. For example the BSSID may comprise a media access control MAC address.

The computing device may be configured to generate report data that is provided to one or more services for analysis. The one or more services analyze the report data to determine or attempt to determine the location of the computing device actual or obfuscated. The report data may comprise information about at least one of wireless devices or wireless networks that were detected by the computing device. For example at a particular location e.g. a coffee shop the computing device may detect different identification data that is being transmitted from different wireless devices located at the particular location. The computing device may acquire this different identification information from these different wireless devices. The identification being transmitted from the wireless devices may include the synthetic data. The identification data that is associated with the wireless devices may comprise actual data. The computing device may generate the report data by aggregating the detected actual data and the detected synthetic data.

The computing device may provide the report data to the service. The service may analyze the report data to determine or attempt to determine the actual locations of the computing device. In one example the report data comprises a list of detected identification information including first actual data second actual data and synthetic data. In an attempt to determine the actual location of the computing device the service may compare the list with a data store that stores a plurality of different lists associated with locations. In this example the service is unable to determine the actual location of the computing device because the service analyzes the synthetic data and determines that the computing device is located at a location other than the actual location.

In some implementations the synthetic data is configured to change over time. For example a wireless device may be configured to periodically change the synthetic data that is transmitted by the wireless device every 60 seconds. By changing the synthetic data the service may incur difficulty creating a data store with consistent information that needed for a reliable location determination system. For example at a first time for a first location the service may acquire first report data from the computing device. The report data may include a first list of information acquired by the computing device and the first list may include first synthetic data. The service may associate the first list with the first location. However at a second time the service may acquire second report data that was acquired by another computing device at the first location. In this example the second report data includes a second list that includes second synthetic data that is different from the first synthetic data. Difficulty occurs in creating an accurate location data store because the association of the first list and the second list with the first location provides inconsistent results.

In some implementations a first service may be configured differently from a second service such that the first service may determine the actual location of the computing device and the second service may not determine the actual location of the computing device. For example the first service may have a predetermined relationship with a user such that the user wishes for the first service to be able to determine the actual locations of the computing device of the user while keeping the second service from knowing the actual locations of the computing device.

In one example a first service is configured to determine the actual location of the computing device and a second service is configured to determine the computing device is located at a location other than the actual location of the computing device. The first service may be configured to generate the synthetic data and provide the synthetic data to the wireless devices that in turn transmits the synthetic data to the computing device. Because the first service stores the synthetic data the first service may remove the synthetic data and analyze the actual data of the report data that is provided to the first service.

In another example because the first service knows which portion of the report data includes the synthetic data the first service may build a location data store that is more accurate when compared to the second service. When the second service analyzes the report data the second service either determines that the computing device is located at an inaccurate location or the second service is unable to determine a location for the computing device. On the other hand the first service is able to analyze the report data to determine the actual locations of the computing device. In some implementations the first service may use the synthetic data as a non repudiation factor to authenticate the computing device. For example first service may generate the synthetic data and provide the synthetic data to a wireless device known to be located at a particular coffee shop. The computing device may be located at the coffee shop and the computing device may acquire the synthetic data. Once the computing device generates and provides the report data which includes the synthetic data to the first service the first service may confirm that the computing device was located at the coffee shop.

By providing report data indicative of identification information of devices located at locations other than the actual location of the computing device the location of the computing device may be obfuscated. For example a service may determine that the computing device is located at a coffee shop when the computing device is actually located at home.

In addition certain designated services may be configured to determine the actual location of the computing device while other services may not be configured to determine the actual location of the computing device. As discussed above designated services may participate in the generation of the synthetic data such that when the designated services analyze the report data the designated services know which data is the synthetic data and which data is the actual data. As a result the designated services may accurately determine the actual location of the computing device.

The computing device may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer a wearable computing device an electronic book eBook reader an in vehicle communication system a desktop computer a television a gaming console a server and so forth. The computing device is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The first service may comprise one or more servers that are configured to determine locations of the computing devices . The first service may be predetermined to be trusted. In some implementations the first service may comprise a set of set of instructions that execute on one or more server to perform one or more computational tasks such as determining locations of computing devices . As discussed in more detail below with regard to the first service may determine a location of the computing device by comparing data acquired from the computing device with a database that associates the acquired data with locations.

The second service may comprise one or more servers that are configured to determine locations of the computing devices . The second service may be predetermined to be untrusted. The computing device may determine that a particular service is untrusted in response to a determination that identification information associated with the particular service does not include designated identification information. In some implementations the second service may comprise a set of instructions that execute on one or more servers to perform one or more computational tasks such as determining locations of computing devices .

The system may include one or more wireless devices . A wireless device may comprise a computing device that enables other computing devices e.g. the computing device to wirelessly connect to the wireless device using wireless communication standards such as Wi Fi Bluetooth ZigBee and so forth. The wireless device may be configured to operate in an access point mode. In access point mode the wireless device may allow the computing device to connect to a wired network. In the wireless devices include access point access point and set top box . In some implementations the wireless device may comprise another computing device .

The computing device the first service the second service and the wireless devices may be in communication with one another using one or more networks not shown . The one or more networks may include one or more public networks such as the Internet private networks or a combination of both. The network facilitating communication between the computing device the first service the second service and the wireless devices may include a variety of networks such as a local network a wide area network WAN broadcast network a personal area network PAN a wired and wireless local area network LAN and so forth. In some implementations the network includes at least one of Ethernet Wi Fi as promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance 3G and 4G Bluetooth as promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and so forth. In some implementations the devices and systems described herein are configured to directly connect to each other.

A wireless device may include actual data that comprises information associated with the wireless device . In one example the actual data includes identification information. The identification information may include a SSID. The SSID may include a human readable 1 to 32 byte string. The SSID may be modified by an administrative user of the wireless device . As described in more detail below at least one of the first service or the second service may use one or more SSIDs to determine or attempt to determine the location of the computing device .

In another example the actual data may include a BSSID. The BSSID may be described as unique information that identifies a network hub for connecting multiple network devices. In yet another example the actual data may include a MAC address. The MAC address may be described as unique information representative of hardware of a wireless device . The BSSID or MAC address may be expressed using characters such as letters numbers symbols and so forth. The MAC address may identify the manufacturer of the computing device . When compared to the SSID typically the MAC address may be considered more unique. As described in more detail below at least one of the first service or the second service may use at least one of the BSSID or the MAC address to determine or attempt to determine the location of the computing device .

The computing device may include a user interface module . The user interface module may be configured to provide a user interface to the user of the computing device . In one implementation the user interface may be a web interface presented via the network and accessible to the user. In another implementation the user interface may comprise an application programming interface API that enables communication such as sending requests for data from the first service to the computing device . The user interface may be configured to allow the user to logon to the computing device by inputting credentials.

The computing device may include a presentation module configured to present information using output devices of the computing device . For example the presentation may include displaying the information using a display device of the computing device or producing audio using speakers of the computing device .

The computing device may be configured to detect the presence of the wireless devices . Detecting the presence of the wireless devices may include acquiring the actual data of the wireless devices . In one example the computing device detects the presence of wireless devices that are located in the same location as the computing device . In the computing device and the wireless devices are located at the same location the actual location e.g. hotel . The computing device detects the presence of the access points and and the set top box . The computing device may detect the presence of wireless devices using at least one of active scanning or passive scanning. Active scanning may include sending multiple probe requests and recording probe responses. Passive scanning may include acquiring information once data is transmitted by an access point.

The computing device may be configured to detect the presence of the wireless devices that are proximate to the computing device . For example in at the actual location the computing device is proximate to the wireless devices because the computing device and the wireless devices are located within a designated distance of one another. The designated distance may be limited by a distance based on the computing device s capabilities. For example the actual location may have a circular shaped boundary based on the computing device having a capability of acquiring information within 35 meters.

In the access points and are located at the other location e.g. Coffee shop . The access points and are not proximate to the computing device because the wireless devices are not located at the actual location . Accordingly the computing device is unable to acquire the actual data and from the access points and respectively.

The actual location may include any suitable location such as a portion of space within a building or other structure. The actual location may or may not be separated by walls or partitions from other parts of the actual location . The other location may include any suitable location such as a portion of space within a building or other structure. The other location may or may not be separated by walls or partitions from other parts of the other location .

The first service may include a synthetic module configured to generate synthetic data . The synthetic data may comprise information that causes the location of the computing device to be obfuscated. For example the synthetic data may include data indicative of locations other than the actual location of the computing device . In the synthetic module generates synthetic data such that the synthetic data includes actual data that is associated with wireless devices located at the other location and not the actual location . That is the synthetic data includes the actual data and associated with the access points and respectively which are not located at the actual location . The synthetic data may include identification information such as a SSID a BSSID a MAC address and so forth. The synthetic data may be simulated and not represent an actual location . That is the synthetic data may be fabricated or may represent imaginary information.

The synthetic module may generate the synthetic data by selecting data from a data store that includes actual data associated with locations. As discussed in more detail below in some implementations the synthetic module may generate the synthetic data based on a seed value.

The first service may transmit the synthetic data to the access point using the network described above. The first service may be associated with one or more of the wireless devices . For example a business entity may manage the first service and one or more of the wireless devices .

The computing device detects the presence of the access points and and the set top box . Detecting the presence of these devices may include acquiring the actual data from the access point the actual data from the set top box and the synthetic data from the access point .

The computing device may include a report module configured to generate report data . The report data may comprise information acquired from the wireless devices that is used by at least one of a first service or a second service to determine or attempt to determine location information associated with the computing device . The report data may include the actual data and the synthetic data that was detected or acquired by the computing device . In the report data includes the actual data and and the synthetic data that was acquired by the computing device . The report data may also include other information such as a timestamp indicating when the actual data or the synthetic data was detected. As discussed in more detail below the report data may be used by the first service as a reference for determining location.

The computing device may provide the report data to the first service using the network described above. The computing device may provide the report data to the first service in response to receiving a request from the first service to provide the report data . In some implementations the computing device is configured to provide the report data to the first service at predetermined times. For example the computing device may provide the report data to the first service every minute.

The first service may manage information used to determine locations of one or more computing devices . The first service may include a location module configured to generate location data representative of locations of one or more computing devices . The first service may include a location data store not shown configured to store a variety of information that may be used to determine the location of the computing device . The stored information may include information about a list of wireless network IDs and the locations associated with the list. The location module may compare the report data with the information stored in the location data store to determine the location of the computing device .

The location data may include a table storing information that may be visualized by an administrator as organized in columns and rows. The location data may include computing device identification ID associated with location . In the computing device has a computing device ID of Jon s Device . The location module compares the report data against the location data store and determines that Jon s Device is located at the Hotel which is where the computing device is actually located.

The location module may be configured to determine the actual location of the computing device because the first service may determine which portions of the report data are associated with the synthetic data and which portions of the report data are associated with the actual data . The first service may filter the synthetic data from the report data to determine the actual data of the report data . Once the first service determines the actual data the first service may compare the actual data with a data store that includes other actual data that is associated with different locations to determine the actual location of the computing device .

In some implementations the first service acquires information indicating the location of a wireless device when the wireless device transmitted the synthetic data to the computing device . By knowing this location information and information about the synthetic data the first service may be configured to use the report data to confirm the actual location of the computing device .

The computing device may provide the report data to the second service using the network described above. The computing device may provide the report data to the second service in response to receiving a request from the second service to provide the report data . In some implementations the computing device is configured to provide the report data to the second service at predetermined times. For example the computing device may provide the report data to the second service every minute.

The second service may manage information used to determine or attempt to determine locations of one or more computing devices . The second service may include a location module configured to generate location data representative of locations of one or more computing devices . The second service may include a location data store not shown configured to store a variety of information that may be used to determine or attempt to determine the location of the computing device . The stored information may include information about a list of wireless network IDs and the locations associated with the list. The location module may compare the report data with the information stored in the location data store to determine the location of the computing device .

The location data may include a table storing information that may be visualized by an administrator as organized in columns and rows. The location data may include computing device ID associated with location . The location module compares the report data against the location data store and determines that Jon s Device is located at the Coffee Shop which is not where the computing device is actually located.

In some implementations the wireless devices may change how the synthetic data is transmitted to the computing device . For example the wireless device may use different channels to transmit the synthetic data over time. In another example the wireless device may transmit the synthetic data using different power levels over time. By changing the way the synthetic data is transmitted the location of the computing device may be better obfuscated when compared to systems that do not change the way the synthetic data is transmitted. Services e.g. the second service may use information about channels or power levels to determine locations of the computing device . By changing the information about channels or power levels the second service may have difficulty determining the location of the computing device because different channels or different power levels may indicate different locations.

By providing the report data that includes the synthetic data the location of the computing device may be obfuscated for certain services such as the second service . By obfuscating the location users of the computing device or service providers of the computing device may prevent potentially valuable location information to outsiders. is a block diagram of the computing device configured to provide the synthetic data . In some implementations one or more wireless devices may be implemented as the computing device . The computing device may include a power supply configured to provide power to various components of the computing device . The power supply may include a portable power supply such as a disposable or rechargeable battery or battery pack or the power supply may include a wired power supply such as an alternating current AC power supply configured to be plugged into an electrical outlet.

The computing device may include at least one hardware processor or processor configured to execute stored instructions. The at least one hardware processor may comprise one or more cores.

The computing device may include a clock such as a circuit that produces a timing signal or clock signal used to synchronize operations of the computing device . The clock may include a resonant circuit e.g. a quartz piezo electric oscillator and amplifier.

The computing device may include one or more communication interfaces . The communications interface may include one or more input output I O interfaces that enables portions of the computing device e.g. the hardware processor to communicate with other devices. The I O interface may be configured to implement various protocols such as inter integrated circuit I2C serial peripheral interface bus SPI Universal Serial Bus USB RS 232 HDMI TOSLINK Bluetooth and so forth.

The communications interface may include one or more network interfaces . The network interface is configured to provide communications with other computing devices the first service the second service web based resources servers routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The network interface may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs wireless LANs WANs wireless WANs and so forth. The computing devices may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the computing devices .

The I O interface may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a digital camera user input buttons and so forth.

The I O device may include one or more sensors that may comprise one or more devices that detects or measures certain properties. The sensor may record indicate or otherwise respond to the detection of a certain property. In one example the sensor includes at least one of an accelerometer or a gyroscope that is configured to generate movement data representing movement of the computing device . In another example the sensor may include a magnetometer configured to measure the strength and the direction of magnetic fields. In some implementations the computing device uses the magnetometer as a compass that indicates direction in a frame of reference that is stationary to the surface of Earth. In yet another example the sensor may include a proximity sensor configured to generate presence data indicative of a presence of an object proximate to the computing device . For example the proximity sensor may detect another computing device a wireless device and so forth. The proximity sensor may include optical proximity sensors capacitive proximity sensors acoustic proximity sensors near field communication NFC tag readers radio frequency identification RFID tag readers and so forth. For example the RFID tag readers may generate proximity data based on detection and strength of a radio signal received from an RFID tag. The proximity sensors may generate the presence data by using remote sensing technologies such as lidar radar sonar and so forth. In yet another example the sensor may include a location sensor configured to generate information about the location of the computing device . The location information may include geolocation data which is indicative of a latitude and longitude of the computing device . The location sensor may also determine the location of the computing device using an inertial navigation system dead reckoning navigation system network positioning system radio position finding system satellite based navigation system an accelerometer system a gyroscope system and so forth. The satellite based navigation system may include one or more of a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a global navigation satellite system GLONASS receiver a Galileo receiver an Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System and so forth.

The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. The I O devices may also include respective navigational resources such as without limitation satellite based navigation or positioning systems such as GPS or GLONASS receivers cellular tower based locating inertial navigation devices or systems radio based navigation receivers dead reckoning devices gyroscopes odometers compasses accelerometers and so on. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the computing device or the I O devices may be externally placed. The I O devices may include various other devices as well.

As illustrated in the computing device may include at least one memory or memory device. The memory may include at least one non transitory computer readable storage media CRSM . The CRSM may include at least one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium or a mechanical computer storage medium. The memory may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the computing device .

The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . The OS module may be configured to manage hardware resources such as the I O interface the communication interface the I O devices and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the hardware processor . The memory may also store at least one of the following modules that may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

The memory may include the user interface module configured to provide a user interface to a user or to the computing device . In one implementation the user interface may be a web interface presented via the network and accessible to the user. In another implementation the user interface may comprise an API that enables communication such as sending requests for items from the first service to the computing device . The user interface may be presented using one or more output devices such as a display on a display device sound from a speaker and so forth.

The memory may include the presentation module configured to present information using output devices of the computing device . For example the presentation may include displaying the information using a display device of the computing device or producing audio using speakers of the computing device .

The memory may include the synthetic module configured to generate the synthetic data . In some implementations the first service includes a first synthetic module that generate first synthetic data and the computing device includes a second synthetic module configured to generate second synthetic data . In these implementations the report module may generate the report data such that the report data includes the first synthetic data and the second synthetic data . The computing device may provide data identifying the second synthetic data to the first service such that the first service may determine the actual location of the computing device .

In some implementations the synthetic module generates the synthetic data based on a pseudorandom generation. For example the synthetic module may operate as a pseudorandom number generator that generates one or more random numbers. The pseudorandom number that is generated may comprise the synthetic data . The pseudorandom number may be expressed using characters such as letters numbers symbols and so forth. A particular pseudorandom number may represent a BSSID for a wireless device . The synthetic module may generate the pseudorandom number using a seed value as an input. The seed value may be used to initialize a pseudorandom number generator.

The memory may include the report module configured to generate the report data . The report module may generate the report data by aggregating the actual data and the synthetic data that was acquired at a particular location. For example at a grocery store the computing device may obtain a plurality of BSSIDs from different wireless devices . The report module may aggregate these BSSIDs into report data and the report module may provide the report data to one or more services e.g. the first service or the second service .

The memory may include the location module configured to generate the location data . The location module may be configured to query a location data store storing a variety of information that may be used to determine the location of the computing device . The stored information may include information about a list of wireless network IDs and the locations associated with the list. The location module may compare the report data with the information stored in the location data store to determine the location of the computing device . Where the computing device includes the location module the computing device may provide the location data to at least one of the first service or the second service . In another example the computing device includes one or more applications or processes comprising one or more sets of instructions that execute on the computing device to perform one or more computational tasks. The location module may be configured to provide the location data to these applications or services that are being executed by the computing device .

The memory may include one or more other modules . For example a module may be configured to manage administrative preferences account information and so forth.

The location obfuscation techniques described above involve wirelessly communicating the actual data and the synthetic data . In some implementations the location obfuscation techniques may be used on a wired network. For example the computing device may connect to a wired Ethernet network and receive data packets of the synthetic data . The computing device may generate the report data and provide the report data to one or more of the first service or the second service using the wired Ethernet network.

In some implementations the memory includes a data store for storing information. The data store may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the data store or a portion thereof may be distributed across at least one other device such as a server a network storage device and so forth. As illustrated in the data store may include at least one of the actual data the synthetic data the report data the location data the seed value the location data store or other data . The other data may include information such as administrator preferences account information associated with users and so forth.

The server may include at least one hardware processor or processor configured to execute stored instructions. The at least one hardware processor may comprise one or more cores.

The server may include a clock such as a circuit that produces a timing signal or clock signal used to synchronize operations of the server . The clock may include a resonant circuit e.g. a quartz piezo electric oscillator and amplifier.

The server may include one or more communication interfaces . The communications interface may include one or more I O interfaces that enables portions of the server e.g. the hardware processor to communicate with other devices. The I O interface may be configured to implement various protocols such as I2C SPI USB RS 232 HDMI TOSLINK Bluetooth and so forth.

The communications interface may include one or more network interfaces . The network interface is configured to provide communications with the computing device other servers web based resources routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The network interface may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs wireless LANs WANs wireless WANs and so forth. The server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the server .

The I O interface may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a digital camera user input buttons and so forth.

The I O device may include one or more sensors that may comprise one or more devices that detects or measures certain properties. The sensor may record indicate or otherwise respond to the detection of certain properties. In one example the sensor may include at least one of an accelerometer a gyroscope a magnetometer a proximity sensor or a location sensor.

The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. The I O devices may also include respective navigational resources such as without limitation satellite based navigation or positioning systems such as GPS or GLONASS receivers cellular tower based locating inertial navigation devices or systems radio based navigation receivers dead reckoning devices gyroscopes odometers compasses accelerometers and so on. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the server or the I O devices may be externally placed. The I O devices may include various other devices as well.

As illustrated in the server may include at least one memory or memory device. The memory may include at least one non transitory CRSM. The CRSM may include at least one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium or a mechanical computer storage medium. The memory may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the server .

The memory may include at least one OS module . The OS module may be configured to manage hardware resources such as the I O interface the communication interface I O devices and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the hardware processor . The memory may also store at least one of the following modules that may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

The memory may include a user interface module configured to provide a user interface to a user or to the server . In one implementation the user interface may be a web interface presented via the network and accessible to the user. In another implementation the user interface may comprise an API that enables communication such as sending requests for items from the computing device to the server . The user interface may be presented using one or more output devices such as a display on a display device sound from a speaker and so forth.

The memory may include a presentation module configured to present information using output devices of the server . For example the presentation may include displaying the information using a display device of the server or producing audio using speakers of the server .

The memory may include the synthetic module configured to generate the synthetic data . The synthetic module may generate the synthetic data by selecting data from a data store that includes actual data associated with locations. The synthetic module may generate the synthetic data based on the seed value . Although the server depicted in includes the synthetic module in some implementations the server does not include the synthetic module such as the second service depicted in .

The memory may include the location module configured to generate the location data representative of locations of one or more computing devices .

The memory may include one or more other modules . For example a module may be configured to manage administrative preferences account information and so forth.

In some implementations the memory includes a data store for storing information. The data store may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the data store or a portion thereof may be distributed across at least one other device such as another server a network storage device and so forth. As illustrated in the data store may include at least one of the actual data the synthetic data the report data the location data the seed value the location data store or other data . The other data includes information such as administrator preferences account information associated with users and so forth.

The location data store may store a variety of information that may be used to determine the location of the computing device . In one example the stored information may include data representing lists of wireless device BSSIDs and SSIDs and the locations that are associated with the lists.

The first service generates the seed value and provides the seed value to the computing device . The first service may include the pseudorandom number generator module not shown configured to generate the seed value . The first service may be associated with a business entity that is also associated with the computing device . For example a particular business entity may manage the first service and the particular business entity may manufacture the computing device .

The synthetic module generates the synthetic data using the seed value as an input. The seed value may comprise data that is used to initialize the synthetic module to generate the synthetic data .

The report module may generate the report data by aggregating the acquired actual data and that was acquired at the actual location and the generated synthetic data . In the report data includes the actual data and and the generated synthetic data .

As discussed above the first service provides the seed value to the computing device . In the first service stores the seed value . Because the first service includes the seed value the first service may use the seed value to determine which portion of the report data includes the synthetic data . Accordingly the first service may remove the synthetic data from the report data such that the first service may use the actual data portion of the report data to determine the actual location of the computing device .

Since the second service does not store the seed value the second service is unable to determine the actual location of the computing device . Accordingly users of the computing device or service providers of the computing device may prevent the second service from obtaining accurate location information of the computing device .

In the computing device includes the synthetic module and the first service provides the seed value to the computing device . In other implementations one or more of the wireless devices and may include the synthetic module . In these implementations the first service may provide the seed value to the one or more of the wireless devices and that include the synthetic module . The wireless device may generate the synthetic data and the wireless device may provide the synthetic data to the computing device using the network described above.

In some implementations other computing devices not shown such as a server may be configured to generate and provide the seed value to the wireless device . The wireless device may then generate the synthetic data and the wireless device may provide the synthetic data to the computing device using the network described above.

The first service may be associated with a business entity that is also associated with the computing devices and . For example a particular business entity may manage the first service and the particular business entity may manufacture the computing devices and .

The synthetic module may generate the synthetic data and and provide the synthetic data and to the computing devices and respectively. In some implementations the computing device generates the synthetic data and the computing device generates the synthetic data .

The computing device may generate the report data by aggregating the acquired synthetic data and from the actual location . In the report data includes the synthetic data and .

As discussed above the first service may generate the synthetic data and . Once generated the first service may store the synthetic data and . Since the first service stores the synthetic data and the first service may determine the actual location of the computing device . The first service may include the location data store not shown . The location data store may include different synthetic data that is associated with different locations. The first service may compare the report data with information from the location data store to determine the actual location of the computing device .

The second service may be unable to determine which data of the report data includes the synthetic data and . Accordingly the second service is unable to determine the actual location of the computing device .

At the computing device receives wireless signals at a first location e.g. the actual location . The actual data may comprise the received wireless signals at the first location. The wireless signals may include beacon frames representative of one or more wireless networks.

At the computing device generates the synthetic data representative of a second set of wireless signals at a second location e.g. the other location different from the first location. In some implementations rather than generating the synthetic data the computing device may receive the synthetic data from other computing devices the first service the wireless device and so forth.

At the computing device generates the report data that includes the wireless signals and the synthetic data . In one example the report module generates the report data by aggregating the actual data and the synthetic data that are acquired from wireless devices . The report module may be configured to remove or filter information when generating the report data . For example the computing device may acquire a first SSID from a first wireless device and a second SSID from a second wireless device . When generating report data the report module may be configured to filter the first SSID from the report data such that the first SSID is omitted from the report data . In one example the report module filters the first SSID based on a determination that the first SSID has a larger power level when compared to the second SSID. In another example the report module filters the first SSID based on a determination that the computing device is connected to the first SSID.

At the computing device provides at the first location the report data to the first service and the second service . At the first service using the report data determines that the computing device is located at the first location. In one example the first service compares the report data to information stored in the location data store to determine whether the report data matches any of the stored information in the location data store to determine the location of the computing device .

At the second service using the report data determines that that the computing device is located at the second location. However the computing device is actually located at the first location. The second service may determine that the computing device is located at the second location because the synthetic data may include information that is associated with devices located at the second location.

At the access point at a first location transmits data indicative of a first wireless network. In one example the access point transmits the actual data to the computing device using the network described above. At the computing device receives the data indicative of the first wireless network.

At the access point at the first location transmits the synthetic data representative of a second wireless network at a second location different from the first location. In one example the access point transmits the synthetic data that includes the actual data and to the computing device using the network described above. At the computing device receives the synthetic data .

At the computing device generates the report data including 1 the data indicative of the first wireless network and 2 the synthetic data . In one example the report module generates the report data by aggregating the actual data and the synthetic data that are acquired from wireless devices .

At the computing device provides the report data to the second service . At using the report data the second service determines that that the computing device is located at the second location when the computing device is actually located at the first location. The second service may determine that the computing device is located at the second location because the synthetic data may include information that is associated with devices located at the second location.

In some implementations the first service is configured to generate the synthetic data and provide the synthetic data to the access point . Thereafter the first service may be configured to request and receive the report data from the computing device . The report data may include the synthetic data that was generated by the first service . Once the first service receives the report data from the computing device the first service may filter the synthetic data from the report data . By filtering the synthetic data from the report data the first service may use the actual data to determine the actual location of the computing device .

At the computing device receives a first wireless signal from a wireless device located at a first location. The first wireless signal includes data indicative of a first wireless network. For example the first wireless signal may include the actual data which includes an SSID or BSSID. The SSID and the BSSID may be simulated. That is the SSID and the BSSID may be fabricated or may represent imaginary information. In one example the first service includes a data store that includes a plurality of different simulated wireless networks. When the first service generates the synthetic data the first service may select one or more simulated wireless networks from the data store.

At the computing device accesses the synthetic data that is indicative of a second wireless network which is different from the first wireless network. The synthetic data may be provided by one or more wireless devices . In some implementations the computing device may generate the synthetic data .

At the computing device generates the report data that includes the data indicative of the wireless network and the synthetic data . In some implementations the computing device generates second synthetic data indicative of a third wireless network that is different from the first and second wireless networks. The second synthetic data may be generated based on previously acquired wireless signals that were acquired at a location. The report data generated at may include the second synthetic data . The computing device may be configured to transmit the second synthetic data .

At the computing device provides the report data to a second computing device e.g. the second service . The report data may be indicative of one or more second wireless signals at a location other than the first location. The second service may use the report data to attempt to determine the location of the computing device .

The computing device may generate the report data using the seed value . The first service may generate and provide the seed value to the computing device . The computing device may include the pseudorandom number generator module that may use the seed value as an input to generate the synthetic data .

In some implementations the wireless device is configured to provide the synthetic data to the computing device . The wireless device may be configured to store sets of wireless signals associated with locations. For example a first set of wireless signals may include three SSIDs that may be acquired at a particular shopping mall and a second set of wireless signals may include three other SSIDs that may be acquired at a particular gas station. The wireless device may be configured to cycle through and transmit the different sets of wireless signals. Continuing with the example the wireless device may transmit the first set of wireless signals i.e. the shopping mall SSIDs for 60 seconds and then transmit the second set of wireless signals i.e. the gas stations SSIDs for 60 seconds.

The synthetic data may be provided by a device that may or may not operate in an access point mode. For example a smartphone that is proximate to the computing device may transmit actual data to the computing device . In this example the smartphone may not operate as in access point mode.

The synthetic data that is transmitted to the computing device may change. For example for a first minute the wireless device may transmit first synthetic data and for a second minute may transmit second different synthetic data .

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

