---

title: Retail space planning system
abstract: A three dimensional virtual retail space representing a physical space for designing a retail store space layout is provided. A three dimensional virtual object representing at least one physical object for the retail space is provided. Input can be received from a virtual reality input interface for interacting with the virtual object in the virtual retail space. Based on the input, the virtual object can be placed in the virtual retail space. An updated video signal can be sent to a head mounted display that provides a three dimensional representation of the virtual object in the virtual space.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524482&OS=09524482&RS=09524482
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09524482
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140718
---
One embodiment is directed generally to a computer system and in particular to a computer system for retail space planning.

Retail store space designers have traditionally laid out the placement of fixtures and items within the store using software that displays the design layout in two dimensions on a computer screen. However customers and others may have difficulty envisioning what the final result would be when physically built out. Some solutions have been developed to better communicate a design layout to customers and others. One solution is to provide a three dimensional 3D perspective rendering of the space in space planning software so that the retail space looks like a photograph and includes perspective views of the space from different angles. The view inside such 3D perspective renderings can be altered as if a camera were panning and moving through the space. Another solution involves purpose built high end facilities that can animate the space so that users can view the space on large monitors to simulate an immersive experience that a user can walk through. Another solution involves purpose built mock up physical facilities so that designers can walk through the physical space.

In one embodiment a three dimensional virtual retail space representing a physical space for designing a retail store space layout is provided. A three dimensional virtual object representing at least one physical object for the retail space is provided. Input can be received from a virtual reality input interface for interacting with the virtual object in the virtual retail space. Based on the input the virtual object can be placed in the virtual retail space. An updated video signal can be sent to a head mounted display that provides a three dimensional representation of the virtual object in the virtual space.

One embodiment provides a three dimensional virtual retail space representing or modelling a physical space and 3D virtual objects representing or modelling physical objects in the real world. Such objects can include for example shelves or other fixtures items to go on the shelves lighting displays structures flooring information displays checkout lanes cash registers and so forth. A user can wear a virtual reality headset and view the virtual space. The user can interact with virtual objects to move them around the retail space or arrange them in a particular way. As the user interacts with the virtual objects the display is updated to give the user the sense that the user is actually manipulating and interacting with the objects in a physical way. Sensors cameras microphones or other input devices can be used to determine the user s movement and translate the movement into an interaction or translate the movement into a perspective change such as when the user moves the user s head or when the user walks around the virtual space. The user can use the system to design and plan a retail space.

Computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by processor and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media and communication media. Communication media may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

Processor is further coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or a head mounted display such as the Oculus Rift by Oculus VR Inc. Personal 3D HDTV Viewer by Sony Corporation or Project Morpheus also by Sony Corporation. A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse can be further coupled to bus to enable a user to interface with system . Other interface devices coupled to processor and are particular to virtual reality systems. Described in greater detail below these devices can include depth perceiving cameras microphones motion tracking gloves infrared sensors and the like.

In one embodiment memory stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system that provides operating system functionality for system . The modules further include a retail space planning module that provides and processes space planning data as disclosed in more detail below. System can be part of a larger system such as a retail space and merchandise planning system. Therefore system will typically include one or more additional functional modules to include the additional functionality. In one embodiment additional functionality can be provided by an iteration of Oracle Retail Macro Space Management by Oracle Corp. In some embodiments additional functionality can include a merchandising system that includes merchandising information about products used in the 3D representations or models. A database is coupled to bus to provide centralized storage for modules and and store one or more data sets to support contextual data processing etc. Some embodiments may not include all of the elements in .

Retail space planning can be used to lay out a store selling goods or services prior to investing in actual fixtures and build out of retail space. As web shopping increases in popularity physical store retailers may want to provide a unique experience to customers to compete against web retailers. Embodiments allow designers to plan their retail space through immersive virtual reality gear and to use the same gear to verify that their new concepts are compelling to customers.

Known solutions that incorporate 3D planning and design do not allow planning and design in any kind of immersive way. Immersive mock ups may be available to view however alteration is not practical because such systems lack the capability to alter or change any of the existing designs nor do they have the capability of accepting input from virtual reality interfaces to allow alteration of the design. Embodiments consistent with the present invention allow a user to design a space by entering a virtual reality planning session that allows users to review and design spaces such as retail spaces while immersed within the virtual world.

API module Save Store Layout can save the current store layout to retail space planning data store . API module Save Fixture Scan can integrate with object scanning technologies to allow a fixture to be scanned using cameras infrared or laser technology to develop a 3D representation or model for use in retail space planning system . Scan information from fixture scan module can be stored in retail space planning data store . API module Save Item Scan can integrate with object scanning technologies to allow an item to be scanned just as a fixture could be scanned to develop a 3D representation or model for use in retail space planning system . Scan information from item scan module can be stored in retail space planning data store . API module Export Store Layout can be used to export the store layout stored in retail space planning data store into a standard 3D file type for later importing into a 3D modeling program such as a third party automated computer aided design AutoCAD desktop application. API module Import Store Footprint can be used to import store footprint information from a standard 3D file type into retail space planning system .

A workstation can execute an enterprise gaming platform desktop application for interacting with server and designing spaces using APIs . A user can start a planning session that runs a retail space planning application for designing retail spaces. As well as accessing server through APIs retail space planning application can process information from a scanner session that uses a laser 3D scanner or other 3D scanning technology to scan objects for loading into fixture and item 3D model databases. Retail space planning application can also process information to and from a virtual reality session by causing a virtual reality headset display to display 3D images to a viewer and by using a depth perception camera or other movement tracking technology to track a user of the system and the user s interactions with system .

A workstation can run a third party enterprise AutoCAD desktop application for working with 3D models outside of a virtual reality retail planning space system. Application can run session with an AutoCAD designer application. Session can use APIs and in particular export store layout API to cause a 3D file from system to be exported to store layout design file . Store layout design file can be imported into session and design software . Session can use import store footprint API by exporting a store footprint design into a 3D design file in a format to be imported into system and stored in retail space planning data store . Store footprint design file can contain 3D model information about the store such as footprint shape wall placement electrical placement and plumbing fixtures.

At a 3D virtual retail space is provided for planning. For example a base retail space representation or model can be loaded into system . The base model can represent a retail space for designing. Once loaded the base model can be altered by the user as appropriate for the space that is to be designed. In some embodiments a 3D model file can be imported from another 3D modeling program or opened from a previously saved planning session. Likewise in some embodiments the user can save or export the designed 3D model into an industry standard format that could be loaded into other 3D planning software.

At 3D virtual object models are provided. 3D virtual object models can include any type of object or fixture placed in the planning model. Some examples include lighting flooring wall coverings cabinets shelves display cases display racks furniture products carousels checkout lanes registers mannequins people machinery vending machines and so forth. Anything that exists in the physical world can be available as a 3D virtual object model. 3D virtual object models can be available in a library readily available to the user of system . 3D virtual object models can be imported from other 3D modeling programs. 3D virtual object models can be loaded from a previously saved planning session and arranged as they were when the planning session was previously saved.

In some embodiments cameras can be used to automatically create a new 3D virtual object. For example an object can be brought to a depth perceiving camera system or laser profiler and by known means the camera or laser can be used to take pictures of or profile the object and then render a 3D model of the object for direct importing into the planning session. Known solutions to provide 3D models of real world objects include the software Skanect from Occipital Corp.

At 3D input is received from virtual reality interface . The input can come from a depth perceiving camera microphone infrared sensor motion tracking wands or gloves or other motion tracking technology such as a device similar to the Kinect by Microsoft Corporation the Leap Motion Controller by Leap Motion Inc. or the Occipital Structure Sensor by Occipital Corp. The input can typically represent an action of the user in the 3D virtual retail planning space. For example the user can select a fixture such as a shelf and place it in the retail planning space. The user can manipulate the object to stretch it or compress it by gripping the sides and moving the user s hands apart or together respectively. Alternatively the user can change the size of an object by making a certain gestures such as selecting the object placing hands together and slowly moving the hands apart with the distance between hands controlling the extent of growth of the object.

Known gaming systems that support immersive virtual reality gaming can be altered without undue experimentation to support the planning session. Gaming Software Development Kits SDKs such as Unreal Development Kit by Epic Games Inc. or Unity by Unity Technologies can be leveraged to create the graphical interaction of the virtual objects in the virtual space. For example to provide additional visual feedback to the user parts of the user s body can also be modeled in the retail planning space. Thus as a user manipulates an object the user can receive the visual feedback of seeing a virtual model of the user s hand pick up the object and move it or alter it. The visual feedback can make the virtual reality experience more natural.

In some embodiments the input can be a microphone that picks up user voice commands and uses natural language processing to interpret the voice commands into commands to control system . For example a user can manipulate an object by selecting the object and ordering the object to rotate grow shrink or otherwise alter its appearance. The user can also tag objects with labels and categories using voice commands. The user can also interact with the program to import other objects multiply objects or remove objects from the planning session.

In some embodiments the input source can come from a motion sensor or position sensor in a head mounted display while in other embodiments sensor input from a head mounted display can be additional separate input. Those skilled in the art will understand that multiple inputs can be used by system simultaneously.

At the virtual space model is altered based on the input. In response to the input the planning session will be altered in some way. If the user is manipulating objects then the color size shape or appearance of the object may change. If the user is manipulating the retail planning space then the user can add or remove walls and other fixtures. If the user s head is moving for example panning the retail planning space then the video shown in a head mounted display can be updated to change the camera angle in the virtual 3D retail planning space according to the input received from a motion and position sensor in the head mounted display.

At a video signal is sent to the head mounted display reflecting the alteration. Nearly simultaneously with the user s manipulation of the virtual object system calculates the change made to the virtual world based on inputs received from the sensors and updates the planning model and then updates the display by sending a video signal to the head mounted display that reflects the alterations. Thus when a user alters the color or appearance of an object the user receives immediate visual feedback that the alterations were processed.

The user can repeat the flow of to fully design the space. For example the user can place products on shelves to determine how to maximize the space available.

At a 3D model of the fixture is imported into system . At the texture of the fixture is updated to produce variants. For example a shelf can be scanned and the texture manipulated to represent wood or metal materials for the shelf. Texture can also include the finish of the fixture s surface. For example a metal shelf can be finished smoothly or roughly to provide more static friction to items resting on the shelf. Some items may be more appropriate to put onto smooth shelves. Texture can also include the color of the fixture.

At fixture size and display details are added. Size details include length depth and height details. Fixture details can include how fixtures interconnect with each other. In some embodiments for some types of fixtures details can also include configurable properties of the fixture. For example a shelf may have adjustable shelves or a display may have adjustable peg hooks for merchandise. In some embodiments textures can also include small variations on the fixtures. For example the location or size of a price tag can be configured such as when the price tag is located at the edge of the shelf or at the end of a merchandise peg. At the 3D model is stored.

At item size and display details are added. Size details include length depth and height details. Item display details can include how items fit on shelves of different standard sizes or whether they are cylindrical stackable rigid flexible have a high resistance to crushing and so forth. At in some embodiments items are associated with a merchandise system that can be part of system as part of additional functionality . At the 3D model is stored.

At the system can default ambient light settings a collision system gravity and a ground or floor. In other words the physical laws of the virtual reality retail planning space are set. For example gravity could be defaulted to the same gravitational force as Earth or it could be set to zero gravity if designing a space to be used in space. In another example a collision system can provide rules for what happens when the user comes in virtual contact with the items and fixtures in the retail planning space. The collision system may allow a user to move fixtures by virtual contact or could prevent users from moving them. Collision and gravity can be changed dynamically so that fixtures can be lighter and easier to move and then changed again to make them act as they would in real life resisting most benign contact from altering their position. At a user can update the default settings as appropriate and as desired for what the user plans on doing in the retail planning session.

At the user can place fixtures in the retail planning space. The user can move around existing fixtures or can add fixtures from a bank of available fixture types. The user can delete fixtures as well. At if all fixtures are placed then the flow will continue to otherwise the flow goes back to to determine if all fixtures are placed. At the user can select items and move them into place with virtual hands by mimicking the same movement physically. Motion sensors and cameras can detect the user s physical movement and relate that movement to the movement of virtual hands in the virtual retail planning space to manipulate and interact with the items. At if all items are placed the flow will continue to otherwise the flow will go back to to place additional items in the space.

At the user updates the store background visuals if desired. The user can also go back and adjust fixtures including shelf locations lighting flooring and the like. The user can also go back and adjust items as desired. At the user can update the perspective to walk the floor as different consumers. As the retail space is planned the user can move through the space in the virtual reality as if the user were actually in the space. In some embodiments the user can take on a particular perspective and view the space from that perspective. For example the user can view the retail space from a perspective of a person in a wheel chair or electronic cart a child in a shopping cart or a person who has other accessibility needs.

At the user can export the store model as a universal document type and as 3D drawings. For example the user can export different views of the store as standard flat graphic images. The user can export video of a camera moving through the retail space. The user can export wireframes of the same. The user can export 3D drawing files such as an AutoCAD compatible file. At the user can save the model for future editing. At the saved file can be stored in 3D model storage. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the flow of can be exited and entered at almost any point. The design process does not have to follow the flow explicitly but can loop back and revisit program settings and other interaction with the 3D model dynamically.

The user can be a designer of the planning space or can be a customer that can review the planned space or provide input about the planning space. The equipment needed to interact in the planning space is relatively inexpensive and is accessible as compared to creating a physical mock up of a space. A designer or customer can be immersed in the view from practically any location. Other users can use system to view and interact with the planning space for any number of reasons.

In some embodiments users can utilize virtual reality equipment to enter a virtual store with representations of virtual objects for sale and actually purchase real life counterparts to the virtual objects. The virtual store can be provided as a part of a larger virtual world as a downloaded interface for customers or as a service within a physical store for endless aisle access to products or for customizable products. In some embodiments customers can browse the store virtually as though they were in a standard store but without the limitations of physical space or local inventory since one can quickly move to widely disparate points in the store thus allowing shopping through endless aisles . Customers can add products to either a viewable shopping cart such as a virtual shopping cart basket with virtual objects representing the products inside or a web like unseen shopping cart that can be accessed and displayed like a webpage as part of a menu interface. Customers can physically place the items in the carts or use a combination of gesture and voice to select the item and any attributes of it including shipping color size etc.

Payment can be received through either pre configured electronic payment services such as PayPal or iTunes or through scanning a card from the physical world through a built in camera interface. For fully customizable products or those that allow for fitting such as clothing once the attributes are chosen in some embodiments customers can see the item and can also see the item reflected in a virtual mirror. Customers can view how they would look in the item in the mirror including turning themselves around and viewing from different angles. In some embodiments customers can adjust the view of the virtual reality display to view their virtually represented self from other angles without a virtual mirror. Customers virtual representations can be created by scanning themselves to create 3D models textured with a graphical representation of the customers image and then importing that model. The model can also be saved for future use.

As disclosed embodiments provide a 3D virtual reality space for a retail space planning session in the planning and design of a physical counterpart retail space in the real world. Three dimensional models of items and fixtures are also provided in the planning session. The virtual reality gear used to interact with the virtual space receives inputs that represent the interactions and gestures of the user. The model of the virtual space is altered or changed based on the input received. Objects and fixtures may be placed or altered. The view as perceived by the user can be altered. A video signal is sent to the user s head mounted display representative of the change. By repeating this flow the virtual retail space can be planned as a virtual mock up or design of a planned actual physical retail space.

Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and or described herein. However it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention.

