---

title: Methods and systems for token-based application management
abstract: Disclosed herein are methods and systems for token-based application management. In an embodiment, requests are received from applications for tokens that can be active or inactive. A token-interaction-directive pool is maintained in data storage, each directive having a triggering token, a target token, and one or both of triggering-token actions and target-token actions. Responsive to receiving a token request from an application, any directives having their triggering token equal the requested token and having their target token active are identified. A response plan that includes the actions in the identified directives is generated. Any triggering-token actions in the response plan are communicated to the requesting application, and any target-token actions in the response plan are communicated to each application that is authorized to access the corresponding target token.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09332010&OS=09332010&RS=09332010
owner: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS, INC.
number: 09332010
owner_city: Schaumburg
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20140307
---
It is common for people to use computing and communication devices that are often though not always portable in nature. These devices are often arranged to be able to run i.e. execute multiple different applications some of which come pre loaded i.e. installed on the devices and others of which are installed at a later time though still provided by a manufacturer of the device and or a wireless service provider that may be uniquely associated with the device such applications are often referred to as native applications. And still other applications that are installed at a time subsequent to the provisioning and or sale of the device are written by other developers companies and the like and are often referred to as third party applications and typically are written to comply with what is known as an application programming interface API that is provided in connection with the associated operating system of the device.

One challenge with which device designers and or manufacturers are often faced is the management of interactions among applications installed on their respective devices whether those applications are native applications or third party applications. Such interactions often are in the context of multiple applications seeking to consume processing power and time memory and other data storage resources and user interface components such as displays microphones speakers and the like. In the case of devices implementing only native applications such interactions are typically handled using specific controls that are programmed into an operating system of the device and or into one or more of the native applications themselves. Such controls are therefore not dynamically configurable. The challenge of managing such interactions once third party applications are present is even more complex. Accordingly there is a need for methods and systems for token based application management.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems for token based application management. One embodiment takes the form of a method carried out by a processor based computing system executing stored instructions. The method includes receiving from respective applications among a plurality of applications token requests that each identify a respective requested token from a pool of tokens that are each togglable between i an active state in which one or more of the applications are authorized to access the token and ii an inactive state in which none of the applications are authorized to access the token. The method further includes maintaining in data storage a token interaction directive pool comprising a plurality of token interaction directives each token interaction directive specifying i a triggering token for that token interaction directive ii a target token for that token interaction directive and iii one or both of a one or more actions that are to be taken with respect to the triggering token for that token interaction directive and b one or more actions that are to be taken with respect to the target token for that token interaction directive. The method also includes responsive to receiving a given token request from a given application identifying the one or more token interaction directives for which i the triggering token is the requested token that is identified by the given token request and ii the target token is active. The method also includes generating a response plan comprising the actions included in the identified one or more token interaction directives. The method also includes communicating each action in the response plan that is to be taken with respect to the triggering token for the corresponding token interaction directive to the given application. The method also includes communicating each action in the response plan that is to be taken with respect to the target token for the corresponding token interaction directive to each application that is authorized to access that target token.

Another embodiment takes the form of a system that includes a communication interface a processor and data storage containing instructions executable by the processor for causing the system to carry out at least the functions described in the preceding paragraph. Moreover any one or more of the additional functions features characteristics options and the like that are described below and elsewhere in this disclosure apply equally to both method and system embodiments and are specifically not limited in applicability to the embodiment in connection with which they are described. Thus when the clause In at least one embodiment and other similar language is used in the balance of this written description it is affirmatively stated here that this should be taken to mean In at least one method embodiment and or in at least one system embodiment and or in at least one embodiment of any other type. 

In at least one embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents an application. In at least one embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents an application state. In at least one embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents a group of applications. In at least one embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents a user interface device. In at least one embodiment one or more of the token interaction directives in the token interaction directive pool are configurable via a user interface.

In at least one embodiment the response plan includes an allow action that is to be taken with respect to the triggering token for the corresponding token interaction directive said allow action allowing the given application to access the requested token. At least one such embodiment further involves changing the triggering token in the corresponding token interaction directive from the inactive state to the active state.

In at least one embodiment the response plan includes a block action that is to be taken with respect to the triggering token for the corresponding token interaction directive said block action blocking the given application from accessing the requested token.

In at least one embodiment the response plan includes a pend action that is to be taken with respect to the triggering token for the corresponding token interaction directive said pend action placing the given application in a pending state of waiting for authorization to access the requested token. At least one such embodiment further involves communicating to the given application notice of authorization to access the requested token and at least one of those embodiments further involves changing the triggering token in the corresponding token interaction directive from the inactive state to the active state.

In at least one embodiment the response plan includes a revocation action that is to be taken with respect to the target token for the corresponding token interaction directive said revocation action transitioning one or more applications that at that time were authorized to access the target token into a state of not being authorized to access the target token.

In at least one embodiment the response plan includes a suspend action that is to be taken with respect to the target token for the corresponding token interaction directive said suspend action placing one or more applications that at that time were authorized to access the target token in a suspended state of i not being authorized to access the target token and ii waiting for reauthorization to access the target token. At least one such embodiment further involves changing the target token in each of the one or more corresponding token interaction directives from the active state to the inactive state. At least one other such embodiment further involves communicating to each of the one or more applications notice of reauthorization to access the target token and at least one of those embodiments further involves changing the target token in each of the one or more corresponding token interaction directives from the inactive state to the active state.

In at least one embodiment the response plan includes at least one action selected based at least in part on a priority level associated with one or more token requests.

In at least one embodiment i one or more of the applications are token unaware applications ii receiving token requests from at least one token unaware application involves receiving token requests from the at least one token unaware application via a proxy iii communicating actions to the at least one token unaware application involves communicating actions to the at least one token unaware application via the proxy and iv the proxy translates between a a token aware API and b an API supported by the at least one token unaware application.

The above overview is intended to be illustrative and not limiting. Moreover the presently disclosed methods and systems will be more readily understood in light of the drawings and their accompanying descriptions which again are provided by way of illustration and example explanation not by way of limitation.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention.

The apparatus and method components have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

In various different embodiments when described as the entity carrying out functions in accordance with the present methods and systems computing device may take the form of smartphone tablet computer access point server computer user computer user computer and or any other computing device capable of performing the computing device functions described herein. In any given implementation one or more of these devices may have a structure and arrangement similar to that described in connection with .

Processor may take the form of or include one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors and may be integrated in whole or in part with data storage communication interface and or any other components of computing device . Processor could take other forms as well as deemed suitable by those of skill in the art for a particular implementation or in a particular context.

Data storage may be any component capable of performing the respective data storage functions described herein. Data storage may store program instructions a token interaction directive pool further described below and or user interface data among numerous other possibilities. The data storage may take the form of or include a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard drive a solid state drive an EPROM a USB storage device a CD ROM disk a DVD disk any other non volatile storage or any combination of these to name just a few examples. Program instructions may include machine language instructions executable by processor to carry out various functions described herein. The data storage and or program instructions could take other forms as well as deemed suitable by those of skill in the art for a particular implementation or in a particular context.

Communication interface may be any component capable of performing the communication interface functions described herein. Communication interface could take the form of or include an Ethernet Wi Fi Bluetooth and or universal serial bus USB interface and or a system bus among other examples. Communication interface could facilitate communication among components within computing device and or with other entities communicatively connected to computing device among other possibilities. For example computing device might be communicatively connected to a server a user device or other entity and as such could facilitate communication between computing device and these entities. Those having skill in the art will recognize that communication interface and or system bus could take other forms as well as deemed suitable by those of skill in the art for a particular implementation or in a particular context.

Turning the reader s attention for the moment to depicted there is a flowchart of a method in accordance with various embodiments. As shown in method begins at step with computing device receiving from respective applications among a plurality of applications token requests that each identify a respective requested token from a pool of tokens. In an embodiment depicted in an example plurality of applications includes a map application a social media application and a phone application . It should be understood that additional and or different applications may be present in other example pluralities of applications.

Tokens as used in this disclosure are essentially stored data objects that are managed in a central manner by the present systems and methods and that are flexible in their usability such that different tokens can be used to represent in a unified manner what in prior implementations have been considered and treated as heterogeneous entities system resources and the like. That is tokens can be used in accordance with the present methods and systems to represent i applications ii application states e.g. in the context of a single phone application one token could represent a ringing state while another could represent a talking state and so on iii groups of applications e.g. a certain token could represent a group of utility applications such as calculator notepad and reminders iv a user interface device i.e. device or capability such as use of a microphone speaker display and or the like and or one or more other such entities system resources and or the like.

Thus in an embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents an application. For example a calculator token could represent a calculator application. In at least one embodiment a token representing an application is in the active state if the application is executing and is in the inactive state if the application is not executing as just one possibility . Those having skill in the art will appreciate that a token representing an application may take other forms as well.

In an embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents an application state. For example a video record token could represent a given video application in a record state and a video playback token could represent the video application in a playback state. In at least one embodiment a token representing a state of a respective application is in the active state if the application is both executing and in the given state and is in the inactive state if the application is not in the given state perhaps whether the application is executing or not .

In an embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents a group of applications. For example a voice communication token could represent a group of applications that individually or collectively provide voice communication services. Accordingly in at least one embodiment a token representing a group of applications is in the active state if any application in the group is executing and instead the token is inactive if none of the applications in the group are executing as an example . Those having skill in the art will appreciate that a token representing a group of applications may take other forms as well.

In an embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents a device state which may include as examples an airplane mode a covert mode an emergency mode a computing device locked mode a computing device lost stolen mode an at work mode an at home mode a privileged user mode an administrator mode a low battery mode an out of communication range mode an in vehicle mode and or a novice user mode among numerous other possible examples.

In an embodiment at least one token in the pool of tokens represents a user interface device. For example a microphone token could represent a microphone or the use thereof of computing device . In at least one embodiment a token that represents a given user interface device is in the active state if the given user interface device is in use and is in the inactive state if the user interface device is not in use as just one possibility.

In an embodiment GPS token represents use of GPS hardware of computing device . In another embodiment GPS token represents computing device having acquired at least one GPS satellite signal and or the computing device having obtained a position fix via GPS. Those having skill in the art will recognize that GPS token may take other forms as well.

In an embodiment video token represents computing device i displaying a video via a computing device display and ii outputting sound associated with the video via a computing device loudspeaker. In another embodiment video token represents computing device playing a video and outputting the associated sound but not necessarily displaying the video via the computing device display for example if the video is playing in the background while a different application is in the foreground. In a further embodiment video token represents computing device playing a video and displaying the video via the computing device display but not necessarily outputting the associated sound for example if computing device is set to a mute volume state. Those having skill in the art will recognize that video token may take other forms as well.

In an embodiment emergency token represents the computing device being in an emergency state. For example an application may request emergency token upon receiving an emergency state indication via a user interface corresponding for example to an emergency button having been pressed an indication that a person is injured upon detecting high amounts of CO2 or CO and or upon detecting excess acceleration and or sudden impacts of computing device among numerous other possible examples.

In an embodiment each of the tokens in token pool are togglable between i an active state in which one or more of the applications are authorized to access the token and ii an inactive state in which none of the applications are authorized to access the token. In and in subsequent figures tokens in the active state are shown with a solid border e.g. token and tokens in the inactive state are shown with a dashed border e.g. tokens and .

The token requests that are received at step are received from applications that are at that time being executed by computing device . In an embodiment the token requests are received from applications being executed at that time by a different device. The requests may be received via interprocess communication IPC using e.g. named pipes shared memory and or sockets common object request broker architecture COBRA hypertext transfer protocol HTTP representational state transfer REST simple object access protocol SOAP web services description language WSDL any combination of these and or any other manner of receiving requests from applications.

At step and with reference to the computing device maintains in data storage a token interaction directive pool comprising a plurality of token interaction directives through . In various different embodiments the data storage in which computing device maintains the token interaction directive pool may take the form of or include data storage of computing device data storage of a separate entity such as server computer perhaps functioning as a relational database management server RDBMS and or an application server AS and or any other data storage. And certainly other data storage strategies and or arrangements could be implemented as well.

As shown in the token interaction directive pool includes a plurality of token interaction directives through . Each token interaction directive specifies a triggering token for that token interaction directive and a target token for that token interaction directive. In the respective triggering token for a given token interaction directive is shown above that token interaction directive and the respective target token for the given token interaction directive is shown to the left of the that token interaction directive. Thus as an example the block directive has the video token as its triggering token and the emergency token as its target token.

Each token interaction directive further specifies one or both of a one or more actions that are to be taken with respect to the triggering token for that token interaction directive and b one or more actions that are to be taken with respect to the target token for that token interaction directive. In an embodiment one or more of the token interaction directives in the token interaction directive pool are configurable. The directives might be user configurable via a user interface e.g. via the example user interface that is depicted in . As shown in interface includes a list of token interaction directives an add button a remove button and a modify button . The interface could be presented by computing device and or an entity separate from computing device as examples. Additionally or alternatively the directives may be configured by an entity such as server computer or any other computing device and or an application or operating system with or without a user interface executable by a computing device e.g. by computing device and or server computer among numerous other examples. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the token interaction directives may be configurable in other ways as well. Interface may include different and or additional elements and could be presented in a manner different than those described above. Configurability via a user interface such as the interface may enable users to add delete and modify directives with respect to their actions triggering tokens and or target tokens among other possibilities.

Turning the reader s attention back to at step responsive to receiving a given token request from a given application computing device identifies the one or more token interaction directives for which i the triggering token is the requested token that is identified by the given token request that was received at step and ii the target token is active i.e. in the active state . At step computing device generates a response plan that contains the actions included in the one or more token interaction directives that were identified at step .

In various different embodiments the response plan includes allow actions block actions and or pend actions to be taken with respect to the triggering token for the corresponding token interaction directive. The allow action allows the given application to access the requested token. The block action blocks the given application from accessing the requested token. The pend action places the given application in a pending state of waiting for authorization to access the requested token. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the response plan may include additional and or different actions to be taken with respect to the triggering token for the corresponding token interaction directive.

In an embodiment the response plan includes an allow action and computing device changes the triggering token in the corresponding token interaction directive from the inactive state to the active state if e.g. the triggering token is not already active . In an embodiment the response plan includes a pend action and computing device after having previously placing the given application in a pending state of waiting for authorization to access the requested token communicates to the given application notice of authorization to access the requested token. For example the computing device may communicate the notice of authorization in response to the target token in the corresponding token interaction directive changing from the active state to the inactive state and or in response to computing device receiving from an application authorized to access the target token an indication that the application is relinquishing access to the target token. In an embodiment computing device in addition to communicating the notice of authorization changes the triggering token in the corresponding token interaction directive from the inactive state to the active state. Those having skill in the art will recognize that other variations are possible as well.

In various different embodiments the response plan includes revocation actions and or suspend actions to be taken with respect to the target token for the corresponding token interaction directive. The revocation action transitions one or more applications that at that time were authorized to access the target token into a state of not being authorized to access the target token. The suspend action places one or more applications that at that time were authorized to access the target token in a suspended state of i not being authorized to access the target token and ii waiting for reauthorization to access the target token.

In some embodiments after or as part of carrying out a suspend action the computing device changes the target token in each of the one or more corresponding token interaction directives from the active state to the inactive state. In some embodiments after having previously placed one or more applications in the suspended state computing device later communicates to each of those one or more applications notice of reauthorization to access the target token. In at least some such embodiments in addition to communicating notice of reauthorization to each of the one or more applications the computing device changes the target token in each of the one or more corresponding token interaction directives from the inactive state to the active state.

The response plan may include at least one action selected based at least in part on a priority level associated with one or more token requests. In at least one embodiment the response plan includes an exclusive action that is implemented as follows if a first priority level associated with a first in time token request received from a first application is higher than a second priority level associated with a second in time token request received a second application then the first application s access to the requested token is left undisturbed and the second application is blocked from accessing the requested token if however the second priority level is higher than the first priority level the first application s access to the requested token is revoked and the second application is granted i.e. allowed access to the requested token. And certainly other implementations of similar directives are possible.

In at least one embodiment the response plan includes a one at a time action that is implemented as follows if a first priority level associated with a first in time token request received from a first application is higher than a second priority level associated with a second in time token request received a second application then the first application s access to the requested token is left undisturbed and the second application is placed in the pending i.e. waiting state with respect to the requested token if however the second priority level is higher than the first priority level the first application s access to the requested token is suspended i.e. it is the first application that is placed in a waiting state and the second application is granted i.e. allowed access to the requested token. And certainly other implementations of similar directives are possible.

Turning the reader s attention again to the reader will recall that the response plan that was generated at step includes actions that are each respectively associated with a given token interaction directive that was identified at step . Thus the response plan includes one or both of a one or more actions that are to be taken with respect to the triggering token for the corresponding token interaction directive and b one or more actions that are to be taken with respect to the target token for the corresponding token interaction directive.

At step then computing device communicates each action if there are any in the response plan that is to be taken with respect to the triggering token for the corresponding token interaction directive to the given application from which the given token request was received . Examples of such actions i.e. those that are to be taken with respect to triggering tokens include allow block and pend as those of skill in the art will appreciate that these are responses back to the application that requested the triggering token of a corresponding token interaction directive.

And at step computing device communicates each action if there are any in the response plan that is to be taken with respect to the target token for the corresponding token interaction directive to each application that is authorized to access that target token. Examples of such actions i.e. those that are to be taken with respect to target tokens include revoke i.e. revocation and suspend as those of skill in the art will appreciate that these are not responses back to the application that requested the triggering token of a corresponding token interaction directive but rather are actions taken with respect to tokens that were already active.

In connection with step and or step actions may be communicated by computing device in a manner similar to that in which token requests are received by computing device e.g. using IPC COBRA HTTP REST SOAP WSDL etc. .

In at least one embodiment one or more of the applications in the plurality of applications are what are referred to in this disclosure as token unaware applications. These token unaware applications would be in contrast then with token aware applications which would be those that were explicitly designed and programmed to send token requests and to comply with actions communicated thereto thus for example a token aware application that wanted to use a microphone would request the microphone token from a token manager module arranged to carry out the present systems and methods and then proceed to use the microphone upon receiving an allow action and would instead proceed to comply with receipt of a block or pend action as examples. Such a token manager module could be implemented in the computing device as any combination of dedicated hardware programmed hardware programmed firmware and or any similar option deemed suitable by one of skill in the art for a given implementation or in a given context.

Token unaware applications e.g. third party applications by contrast would be programmed to interact with e.g. an operating system of the computing device according to an API provided for developers in connection with that operating system. Thus a token unaware application might address or otherwise direct a request to use the microphone to the operating system of the computing device and similarly expect in return a response to that request from the operating system. In order to accommodate one or more token unaware applications executable alongside one or more token aware applications the present systems and methods implement a proxy i.e. a hardware firmware and or software based proxy module that translates between i a token aware API which would be used by token aware applications for communicating with a token interaction manager in accordance with the present systems and methods and ii an API supported by a corresponding token unaware application. Thus a computing device implementing the present systems and methods may have an operating system that directs requests from and responses to token unaware applications via such a proxy.

Consider an illustrative example shows the map application the phone application and a token unaware e.g. legacy social media application as well as an interaction manager i.e. interaction manager module and an application proxy i.e. application proxy module . As is shown by way of example in the interaction manager i receives token requests from the token unaware legacy social media application via the application proxy and ii communicates actions to the token unaware legacy social media application via the application proxy .

As stated in at least one embodiment the application proxy translates between i a token aware API shown generally at and ii a token unaware API shown generally at that is supported by the token unaware application . In an embodiment the application proxy may maintain a perhaps updateable table that maps between commands and the like of the token aware API and the token unaware API . And while not necessarily the case in all embodiments it is the case in at least the embodiment that is depicted in that the token aware API is also used i between the interaction manager and the token aware map application and ii between the interaction manager and the token aware phone application .

Furthermore in some embodiments the application proxy is implemented separate from the interaction manager as depicted in while in other embodiments the application proxy is implemented as a functional component of the interaction manager . Moreover different proxies can be designed and implemented for different token unaware applications. In some embodiments a relatively small number of proxies is implemented to account for a relatively small number of APIs approved for application development in connection with a given operating system. In some embodiments the number of proxies may be relatively large perhaps as high as a dedicated proxy being implemented on a per token unaware application basis. And those of skill in the art will recognize that other ways of facilitating communication with token unaware applications are possible as well.

Computing device subsequently receives token request from the social media application where the token request identifies the GPS token as the requested token. The token request might be received as a result of social media application attempting to include a location of the computing device and thus likely a user thereof in a given social media communication. Computing device identifies the token interaction directives for which the triggering token is the requested token and the target token is active in this case only token interaction directive . The computing device generates a response plan that includes an allow action as specified in token interaction directive and then communicates the allow action to social media application . It may be the case that token interaction directive specifies an allow action for this interaction because no adverse interactions are anticipated from multiple applications accessing the GPS hardware.

Computing device subsequently receives from the social media application a token request that identifies the video token as the requested token perhaps as a result of the social media application attempting to play a video via the user interface of the computing device . The computing device responsively identifies the one or more token interaction directives for which the triggering token is the requested video token and for which the target token is active in this case only the token interaction directive .

Accordingly the computing device responsively generates a response plan that in this example includes i the suspend actions and to be taken with respect to the in this context target GPS token and ii the revocation action to be taken with respect to the in this context target video token . The computing device communicates the suspend GPS actions and to the map application and the social media application respectively and communicates the revocation video action to the social media application . The computing device additionally changes the target GPS token and the target video token from the active state to the inactive state. The computing device further communicates an allow action to the phone application and changes the emergency token from the inactive state to the active state.

As depicted in the computing device subsequently receives from phone application an indication that the application is relinquishing access to the emergency token. The computing device responsively communicates to map application and social media application respective notices and of reauthorization to access the GPS token and further changes the GPS token from the inactive state to the active state.

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an depictive rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present teachings.

The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

Moreover in this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising has having includes including contains containing or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises has includes contains a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by comprises a has a includes a contains a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises has includes contains the element. The terms a and an are defined as one or more unless explicitly stated otherwise herein. The terms substantially essentially approximately about or any other version thereof are defined as being close to as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and in one non limiting embodiment the term is defined to be within 10 in another embodiment within 5 in another embodiment within 1 and in another embodiment within 0.5 . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically. A device or structure that is configured in a certain way is configured in at least that way but may also be configured in ways that are not listed.

It will be appreciated that some embodiments may be comprised of one or more generic or specialized processors or processing devices such as microprocessors digital signal processors customized processors and field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and unique stored program instructions including both software and firmware that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions of the method and or apparatus described herein. Alternatively some or all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the two approaches could be used.

Moreover an embodiment can be implemented as a computer readable storage medium having computer readable code stored thereon for programming a computer e.g. comprising a processor to perform a method as described and claimed herein. Examples of such computer readable storage mediums include but are not limited to a hard disk a CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device a ROM Read Only Memory a PROM Programmable Read Only Memory an EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory an EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory and a Flash memory. Further it is expected that one of ordinary skill notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and ICs with minimal experimentation.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

