---

title: Targeted marketing based on social media interaction
abstract: A system and method for providing targeted marketing to a user based on the user's social media interaction. The system includes one or more computing platforms providing computer-automated functionality performing method steps for accepting a digital media and digital media related data from a publisher, generating associated information unique identifiers, monitoring social media networks for member-user rankings of the digital media after it is posted, and communicating to a member-user targeted marketing information based on the user rankings. A data storage device persists the digital media, digital media related data, and information unique identifier, which may include a linking hash character, a unique identifier, an account identifier, and/or social media network system-defined elements. The publisher selects digital media and information representing digital media elements, and posts the digital media on the social media network website. Edits, if applied to the selected digital media, are persisted in the data storage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495693&OS=09495693&RS=09495693
owner: REWARDSTYLE, INC.
number: 09495693
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141006
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 905 926 filed on May 30 2013 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 838 578 filed on Mar. 15 2013 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 383 filed on Dec. 31 2012 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 547 771 filed on Jul. 12 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 617 857 filed on Mar. 30 2012 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to online product advertising and social networking and more specifically to a system and method for providing automated targeted online marketing based on a consumer s social media interactions.

Businesses create marketing campaign advertisements to market products to various consumer demographics in the hopes of convincing some percentage of the consumers to purchase particular products. However such mass advertisements are costly and relatively ineffective unless interested potential consumers receive information regarding the goods or services in which they are interested. Given the finite budgets involved it is usually the job function of marketing personnel to obtain sufficient data to assist them in their determination as to which consumers to target with the advertisement.

It is commonly understood in business advertising that if it is possible to accurately determine a potential consumer s desire for or interest in a particular product and provide that consumer with the relevant information regarding that particular product when the desire or interest is greatest then the chance of the consumer acting on this desire or interest and making the purchase is much greater than if the information is not received is incorrect or arrives at a time when interest is low or non existent. The more certain the desire or interest can be determined then the higher the probability of a completed sale. Such an advertising technique is known as targeted marketing which requires adequate essentially real time consumer information to realize. Thus actively monitoring a potential consumer s actions desires and interests as they occur and develop would be an ideal way of achieving such information but such effective data gathering is effectively non existent despite current technology advances.

With the rapid evolution of technology there has been a growing trend toward online publishing by individuals through social media. Popular social media networking websites for example Instagram Facebook Twitter Pinterest Google Tumblr YouTube Vine and Flicker allow users to post user generated or acquired images and comments effectively at will. And because camera enabled smartphones are ubiquitous it is relatively simple for social media users to take and post digital photographs and video on these websites and to include commentary. Once posted subscribers or friends of the individual s posts are allowed to comment on the posts or otherwise rank such posts to indicate the level of like that they share. Such information ranking by these subscribers or friends of particular posts is invaluable in determining what the subscriber or friend is not only interested in but also when such interest is effectively the greatest. However efficient access to this information does not exist in current online systems and applications.

One highly relevant exemplar of use of social media networks involves publishers in the fashion industry who often share images of favorite clothing shoe and or accessory fashion items. Such fashion publishers enjoy sharing clothing and accessory finds with others through these social media network websites. Upon posting of for example a particularly attractive combination of clothing and accessories subscribers to the publisher s posts receive notification of such posts and will browse and rank the posted image. Thus the subscriber personally records his or her current like or dislike of the clothing and accessories. Near real time access to this data would allow marketers of the particular clothing and accessories to present timely relevant advertisements to the subscriber but such efficiency has not been possible prior the present invention. It is a goal of the present invention to obtain timely information about a consumer s preference for a commercial good so that the possibility of consummating a sale is greatly improved for among other things achieving a commission on the sale.

Described and claimed herein is a system for providing targeted marketing based on social media interaction the system comprising a computer automated information unique identifier creation device in network communication with at least one social media network computing device the information unique identifier creation device adapted to generate an information unique identifier in response to a selected digital media and or a related textual caption the social media network computing device adapted to accept the posting of the selected digital media and the generated information unique identifier from a publisher and to allow a ranking of the posted digital media by a plurality of social media network member users a computer automated digital media ranking monitor device adapted to monitor the social media network computing device for the posted digital media ranking and a computer automated communications device adapted to communicate targeted marketing information to the social network member user the marketing information relevant to the member user s posted digital media ranking. Additional embodiments comprising added inventive elements are further described and claimed in the related dependent claim set.

Also described and claimed herein is a method for providing targeted marketing based on social media interaction the method steps comprising providing at least one automated computing device in network communication with at least one social media network computing device the social media network computing device adapted to accept as a post from a publisher user a digital media and a related caption and to allow a ranking by a plurality of social media network member users of the posted digital media the automated computing device executing program instructions to perform the method steps comprising receiving a selected digital media and related data and or metadata from a publisher receiving digital media related data from the publisher the digital media related data representing elements within the selected digital media saving the selected digital media and storing a reference to the selected digital media and digital media related data and or metadata in a database device record and generating a unique character identifier representative of the database record location generating an information unique identifier in response to the selected digital media and or related textual caption the information unique identifier generation steps comprising associating the information unique identifier with the selected digital media reference and digital media related data monitoring the social media network computing device for a posted digital media ranking by a social media network users and communicating periodically to the social media network member user targeted marketing information based upon the posted digital media ranking the targeted marketing information comprising detailed consumer information related to the posted digital media. Additional embodiments comprising added inventive elements are further described and claimed in the related dependent claim set.

The above figures are provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended to define the limits of the disclosed invention. Use of the same reference number in multiple figures is intended to designate the same or similar parts. Furthermore when the terms top bottom first second upper lower height width length end side horizontal vertical and similar terms are used herein it should be understood that these terms have reference only to the structure shown in the drawing and are utilized only to facilitate describing the particular embodiment. The extension of the figures with respect to number position relationship and dimensions of the parts to form the preferred embodiment will be explained or will be within the skill of the art after the following teachings of the present invention have been read and understood.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

A system and method is described herein for advantageous use of potential consumer information to target specific and relevant advertisements to the potential consumer when the affinity for such information is greatest. The system and method is practiced on one or more networked computing devices. As used herein the term automated computing device or computing device or computing device platform means a device capable of executing program instructions as streamed or as requested from attached volatile or non volatile memory. For example such a device utilizes a microprocessor microcontroller or digital signal processor in signal communication with a dedicated and or shared memory component RAM ROM etc. one or more network components NIC Wi Fi Bluetooth Zigbee etc. one or more user input components keyboard mouse touchscreen etc. one or more user output or display components and or additional peripheral components including a database for bulk data storage. The computing device may also utilize a standard operating system upon which the program instructions may be executed OS X iOS Linux UNIX Android Windows etc. or may utilize a proprietary operating system for providing basic input output. For purposes of illustration but not limitation examples of a computing device include mainframe computers workstation computers database servers personal computers laptop computers notebook computers tablet computers smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs or the like or even some combination thereof.

As used herein computer readable medium means any tangible portable or fixed RAM or ROM device such as portable flash memory a CDROM a DVDROM embedded RAM or ROM integrated circuit devices or the like. A data storage device or database device means a device capable of persistent storage of digital data for example a computer database server or other computing device operating a relational database management system RDBMS for example SQL MySQL Apache Cassandra or the like or even a flat file system as commonly understood.

As used herein the term network or computer network means any digital communications network that allows computing devices to exchange data over wired and or wireless connections including the telecommunications infrastructure. Such a network also allows for distributed processing for example through website and database hosting over multiple computer network connected computing devices. The present invention may utilize one or more such networked computing devices with each device physically residing in different remote locations including in the cloud i.e. cloud computing . As used herein the term online means with respect to a computing device that the computing device is in computer network communication with one or more additional computing devices. The term online means with respect to a user of a computing device that the user is utilizing the computing device to access one or more additional computing devices over a computer network.

As used herein the term computer network address or network address means the uniform resource identifier URI or unique network address by which a networked computer may be accessed by another. The URI may be a uniform resource locator URL a uniform resource name URN or both as those terms are commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the information technology industry.

As used herein the term web browser means any software application for retrieving presenting or traversing digital information over a network e.g. Safari Firefox Netscape Internet Explorer Chrome and the like . A web browser accepts as an input a network address and provides a page display of the information available at that network address. Underlying functionality includes the ability to execute program code for example JavaScript or the like to allow the computing device to interact with a website at a given network address to which the browser has been pointed. 

As used herein the term digital media means any form of electronic media where media data are stored in digital format. This includes but is not limited to video still images animations audio any combination thereof and the like. The term rank or ranking of the digital media means the assignment of a value by one viewing the digital media that indicates the one s approval or disapproval or acceptance of the digital media. For example most social media network services allow a user viewing a posted digital media to indicate whether the viewer likes the posted digital media by allowing the selection of a like button or other such graphical user input device associated with the digital media. The social media network service records and persists this like ranking in a dedicated database as a use metric associating the ranking with the posted digital media and attributing the ranking with the member user. Also collected as a metric by social media network services are the digital media views by the member users. Thus an inference may be made that a user that views a particular digital media without assigning a like ranking either does not like the digital media or is ambivalent towards the particular digital media. In addition to or alternatively social media network services may allow a value ranking by for example allowing a member user to assign a multiple star value e.g. 0 to 5 stars or a number range e.g. 0 to 10 with the higher star count or number range indicating a greater or lesser approval or acceptance of the digital media.

The method steps and computing device interaction described herein are achieved through programming of the computing devices using commonly known and understood programming means. For example stored programs consisting of electronic instructions compiled from high level and or low level software code using industry standard compilers and programming languages or may be achieved through use of common scripting languages and appropriate interpreters. The method steps operating on user computing devices may utilize any combination of such programming language and scripting language. For example compiled languages include BASIC C C C Objective C .NET Visual Basic and the like while interpreted languages include JavaScript Perl PHP Python Ruby VBScript and the like. For network communications between devices especially over internet TCP IP connections web browser applications and the like may use any suitable combination of programming and scripting languages and may exchange data using data interchange formats for example XML JSON SOAP REST and the like. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand and appreciate how such programming and scripting languages are utilized with regard to creating software code executable on a computing device platform.

The social media network services utilized by the embodiment also operate upon automated computing devices providing such functionality through execution of stored program software code and afford third party access to the service through an application programming interface API . For example the Instagram API allows registered third party access to posted digital media captions and related metadata including likes of the posted digital media real time digital media updates and other data. One of ordinary skill will readily understand how such API calls may be utilized to obtain the desired data and will be readily capable of incorporating such API calls into proprietary software functions designed for such access. Each of the listed example social media network services affords such an API and access to at least certain of its data and metadata. In addition to commonly known and practiced wired Ethernet or the like and or wireless Wi Fi and the like access to the network also includes cellular networks thereby affording access to the social media networking services using handheld computing device cellular phones tablets and the like.

The system computing devices and data storage devices are connected to the network to access the social media network services using the provided APIs. The system functionality described herein may be provided on one or more computing devices depending on system requirements. For example system requirement considerations to determine the number and power of computing and data storage hardware utilized include without limitation budgetary constraints number of actual or anticipated users failover redundancy for continuity of service etc. and are within the skill of one of ordinary skill.

The system can be accessed by publisher users using wired desktop or personal computing device wirelessly connected computing device and or cellular handheld computing device access means such means operable to provide network access to the system and social media network services through a web browser. In another embodiment a dedicated graphical user interface GUI may also be provided. Social media network member users can also access the system through the same wired wireless and or cellular handheld device access means. Each publisher user and social media network member user computing device is capable of receiving program code over the network connection through the device web browser or as a download from an application service provider or other such service. Such devices are considered peripheral to the system devices and .

A member user s handheld computing device that is also registered with the social media network service accesses the posted digital media on the social media network service and provides a ranking of the digital media . The system digital media ranking monitor device of the system periodically accesses the social media network service to request a report of the digital media rankings which the service subsequently provides . This received ranking and digital media information is then persisted in the data storage device for subsequent storage and processing. The communications device of the system periodically sends targeted marketing information to the member user that is relevant to the member user s digital media rankings .

Using the installed and authenticated application the publisher user selects a digital media file for posting on the social media network service . The selected digital media file in this embodiment is a digital media file that represents certain objects in physical existence. For example the digital media may be a digital representation of consumer items such as an individual wearing a certain brand of clothing and accessories which makes sense given that the invention pertains to targeted marketing. However the invention can also apply to targeted marketing of non consumer information based on a member user s ranking of non consumer data.

Ancillary to the stated functionality the system provides a means for organizing and persisting the publisher user s favored consumer items. Such ancillary favoriting and dynamic consumer product web page parsing and specialized product hyperlink generation functionality is described in related United States patent applications represented as patent publication numbers 2013 0262971 2013 148870 2014 0019266 2014 0019267 and 2014 0019248 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all necessary purposes. These applications share common inventorship with the instant application. The publisher user s favored consumer items are maintained in favorites folders on a database device and comprise specialized hyperlinks and other metadata relevant to the favored consumer items including from where such consumer items may be obtained. The specialized hyperlinks also provide a means for crediting the publisher user in the event that another user follows the hyperlink to make a purchase of the related consumer item and are detailed in the above applications that are incorporated by reference.

Upon selection of a digital media file the application then requests from the system the publisher user s favorites folders the contents of which are returned to the publisher user s application interface . The publisher user is then allowed to select favored consumer items from the favorites folder relevant to the items present or visible in the digital media so that this additional related item data and metadata may accompany the selected digital media . In another embodiment if the publisher user s favorites folder does not contain a favored consumer item that is considered relevant to the items present in the digital media the publisher user is allowed to conduct a text or image search for the aforementioned specialized hyperlinks and other metadata relevant to the present consumer item utilizing the systems and methods disclosed in the applications that are incorporated by reference above. Thus consumer items relevant to the items present in the digital media may be located dynamically. depicts program steps taken by the system embodiment to assist with dynamic location of consumer products .

The publisher user is first presented with an application browser that allows the user to locate a consumer product advertiser s website from which the publisher user may select a consumer item relevant to the items present in the previously chosen digital media . The system then dynamically parses the consumer product webpage using XML or text parsing scripts as required to obtain the consumer product data from which the specialized product hyperlink is generated . This consumer product data and specialized hyperlink data are then added to the publisher user s favorites folder for future use . This consumer product and hyperlink data may they be selected by the publisher user as additional digital media data for the selected digital media .

Referring once more to following selection the digital media and additional digital media related data are posted to the system . The system information unique identifier creation device then saves the posted digital media to a data storage device and creates and stores a reference to the digital media database record . The digital media related data is then stored in the database device as well and a new database record and record ID is created for use with the information unique identifier . The digital media related data database record ID is then provided to the information unique identifier creation device and a hash value that represents and is related to the information bundle database record is generated . In this embodiment the hash value is created by encoding the record ID into Base62 letters A Z a z and numbers 0 9 using standard encoding techniques. Other embodiments may utilize a different number base for example Base32 or Base64. The information unique identifier link is then created and returned to the publisher user .

The FirstElement represents a social media network hash tag that provides a means to link all of the various information unique identifiers together on the social media network service. This element affords the ability to search the social media network service for the FirstElement to view all posts with that hash tag. This hash tag may be any combination of characters. The URLSecondElement represents a shortened or full length hyperlink the selection of which returns for display all stored information for the digital image from the system database device records. In the present embodiment the system uses Base62 decoding to obtain a unique identifier value. In alternate embodiments the system utilizes the unique URL of the social media network service or a Media ID provided by the social media network service API as the unique identifier instead of using a system provided unique identifier. The SMAccountThirdElement represents the name of the social media network service account that is controlled by the system and not the publisher and serves as a master account handle. This master account affords the embodied system access to the social media network service via the API. The use of this account handle with publisher posts affords the ability to reach the master account profile page on the social media network service. From this master account profile page a social media network member user may access featured publisher posts or may even register with the system embodiment as a publisher user. The URLSecondElement is a required element and may in other embodiments be utilized without the FirstElement and SMAccountThirdElement. In another embodiment the information unique identifier comprises only the URLSecondElement while in another embodiment the information unique identifier comprises the URLSecondElement and either of FirstElement or SMAccountThirdElement and or may include additional system defined elements.

Following creation of the information unique identifier the publisher user is presented with a pre publish screen to preview the digital media and information bundle package for posting on the social media network service . The publisher user computing device interface then transitions the publisher user to the social media network service interface to allow posting of the digital media package.

Once the member user is authenticated the periodic monitoring engine begins operation by retrieving using the social media network service API calls the posted digital media data metadata and related rankings for which the member user was responsible and searching the caption of the retrieved digital media for the information unique identifier . If the information unique identifier is present with respect to a particular retrieved digital media data then the retrieved digital media data metadata and ranking are stored by the system in the data storage device for subsequent processing. This periodic operation steps through in the present embodiment is performed every five minutes or as often as the API allows but may be performed on any cycle deemed appropriate for a given member user or social media network service activity load. For example if a particular member user is known to provide much more frequent postings of digital media rankings then this period might be reduced to capture the member user s activity in a more expeditious fashion. The converse is the same. Moreover if the network load on the social media network service is excessively high then the period of operation may be adjusted to improve overall system responsiveness. In any event the more frequent the engine operates the more current the retrieved data becomes and therefore the timelier the targeted marketing becomes.

After connection the member user is presented with a screen on the member user graphical interface web browser that includes a view of the member user s rankings and related digital media . The member user s interface requests the data and the system responds by returning a listing of the member user s posted rankings and digital media data metadata . This information is then displayed on the member user s interface in a grid stream or other view . As the member user utilizes the social media network service the monitoring device refreshes its stored data and this view is updated as often as the API allows in order to ensure timely information. In one embodiment the member user is presented with a listing of featured publisher user posted digital media to further promote engagement and drive conversions to publishers and retailers related to what the consumer is already engaging with on their social media effectively targeting marketing related to specific consumer products.

With up to date knowledge of the member user s rankings it is possible for the system to target marketing to the member user by this periodic surveying of the member user s rankings. When the system obtains the member user s current ranking in the aforementioned fashion the system can then readily retrieve the relevant ranked digital media and related item data metadata for timely presentation to the member user through the communications means. In addition to the targeted marketing as described below the member user interface view also presents to the member user the relevant ranked digital media and related item data metadata to assist the member user in purchasing or obtaining the ranked items.

The communications queue of the present embodiment is scheduled to run continuously but may be run periodically for example every five minutes followed by a similar period of rest . When active the communications queue obtains from the system a list of active member users for receipt of electronic correspondence containing targeted marketing based on the member user s ranking activities. On a per user basis the communications queue retrieves the timestamp for the last electronic communication sent to the respective user and then retrieves from the data storage device the information associated with the ten member user rankings posted most recently following the timestamp . Separate email correspondence containing the related item data metadata is then generated based on each of the ten retrieved rankings and the ten generated email correspondences are added to the communications outbox queue . Once each of the member user s accounts has been processed the communications queue rests until the period expires . The physical creation of an email or other similar electronic correspondence is commonly practiced and understood and is well within the skill of one having ordinary skill in the art. Although the present embodiment retrieves and processes ten member user rankings other embodiments may retrieve and process different numbers of member user rankings. For example another embodiment processes all member user rankings on a given pass through the communications queue or may process some number less than the stated ten rankings.

Then processing queue of the present embodiment is scheduled to run continuously but may be run periodically for example every five minute period as well followed by a similar period of rest . The communications outbox queue is sequentially emptied and each email is sent to the recipient until the queue is emptied . If the process has not yet run for the allotted period operation continues and additional emails are obtained from the communications queue for processing . If the operational period has expired the processing queue is awakened and the steps repeat. By adapting the queues to run periodically it is possible to provide timely targeted marketing correspondence without overwhelming the email inbox of the member users. In another embodiment the period of operation period of rest are dynamic and may be altered depending on desired system responsiveness. The configuration and operation of an email server is commonly practiced and understood and is well within the skill of one having ordinary skill in the art. Further other embodiments may use multiple instances of the processing queue each running in a multi threaded fashion and retrieving items from the communications queue to increase processing efficiency and speed.

In accessing the system functionality the publisher user must first select a digital media file for posting on the social media network service. is a depiction of the screen of a publisher user handheld computing device depicting the media folder screen as provided by the embodiment. The publisher user is presented with folders from which to select the digital media file for posting . Upon selection of a folder the digital media files are made available. is a depiction of the screen of a publisher user handheld computing device depicting the media selection screen as provided by the embodiment. The publisher user selects a digital media file for use . Once selected the publisher user is presented with his or her favorites folders as maintained by the system. is a depiction of the screen of a publisher user handheld computing device depicting the favorites folders as provided by the embodiment. As stated above the favorites folders in this embodiment contain favored consumer product image data metadata and links to sources of various consumer items of interest to the publisher user. The publisher user selects a favorites folder containing consumer items visible in the selected digital media file and is presented with a display of the favored consumer products stored therein as depicted in .

Following selection of items and entry of a caption the publisher user is presented with the pre publication screen for publication to the social media network service. is a depiction of the screen of a publisher user handheld computing device depicting the social media network publication selection screen as provided by the embodiment. In this instance the digital media and data are intended for publication on the Instagram social media network service which may be accomplished by selecting the Instagram icon . It is also possible for the publisher user to copy the information unique identifier that is presented to a web browser clipboard or text editor and paste the copied information unique identifier as a caption or comment manually in a social media posting.

Upon selection of the Instagram social media network service icon the publisher user interface changes to the social media network service image modification screen. is a depiction of the screen of a publisher user handheld computing device depicting the social media network media editing screen and options as provided by the embodiment. As shown the publisher user is provided with numerous filters that may be applied to the digital media image including rotation brightness and contrast adjustments . Once the digital media image is adjusted if desired the image is ready for posting on the social media network website.

As indicated above aspects of this invention pertain to specific method functions implementable through various computer systems. In an alternate embodiment the invention may be implemented as a computer program product for use with a computer system. Those skilled in the art should readily appreciate that programs defining the functions of the present invention can be delivered to a computer in many forms which include but are not limited to a information permanently stored on non writeable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as ROMs or CD ROM disks readable only by a computer I O attachment b information alterably stored on writeable storage media e.g. floppy disks and hard drives or c information conveyed to a computer through communication media such as a local area network a telephone network or a public network like the Internet. It should be understood therefore that such media when carrying computer readable instructions that direct the method functions of the present invention represent alternate embodiments of the present invention.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly the scope of the invention is established by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein. Further the recitation of method steps does not denote a particular sequence for execution of the steps. Such method steps may therefore be performed in a sequence other than that recited unless the particular claim expressly states otherwise. Moreover multiple computer automated devices may be combined to achieve all or a portion of the stated functionality.

