---

title: Viewer-authored content acquisition and management system for in-the-moment broadcast in conjunction with media programs
abstract: A method, apparatus, and system for providing viewer-derived content for broadcast presentation in conjunction with a broadcast of a media program by a provider of the media program is disclosed. The disclosed system and method (1) simplifies the process for viewers to provide viewer-authored media to broadcasters, while minimizing the data transmission requirements between portable viewer devices and the broadcaster, (2) allows advance approval for the broadcasters to use that viewer-generated content to generate and disseminate viewer-authored-content and (3) provides for management of viewer-generated content (4) integrates with social networks that can be used to at least preliminarily assess the popularity and suitability of the viewer-generated content for broadcast to other viewers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319727&OS=09319727&RS=09319727
owner: FX Networks, LLC
number: 09319727
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141029
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 897 172 entitled VIEWER AUTHORED CONTENT ACQUISITION AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR IN THE MOMENT BROADCAST IN CONJUNCTION WITH MEDIA PROGRAMS by Jason N. Phipps and Sally A. Daws filed Oct. 29 2013 which application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for communicating media programs and the promotion thereof and specifically for a method and apparatus for acquiring viewer authored media managing and rebroadcasting viewer authored content generated from the viewer authored media.

Currently media program providers typically scour the Internet to find viewer authored media such as video mimes JPEGs joint Photographic Experts Group and GIFs Graphical Interchange Format and the like for viewer generated content that might be useful for purposes of generating further interest in the media program among other viewers. After such viewer generated content is discovered the media program provider or their agents must track down the source of the viewer generated content confirm authorship and the right to convey rights to the viewer generated content and negotiate for the acquisition of such rights. All of these steps must be performed before the viewer generated content may be copied or used in a way that implicates the owners copyrights to the viewer generated content.

The problem with such as system is that 1 the process itself is expensive to implement 2 reproduction rights negotiated after the media program provider has expressed interest rather than before hence the reproduction rights can come at an artificially inflated price 3 the process is time consuming to the point where many of the intended audience of the viewer generated content have already experienced it whether on the web or a social network thus diluting its value. Accordingly the media program provider appears to be a me too participant in the viewer generated content rather than actively involved in its discovery and enjoyment as other viewers. It also makes it more difficult for the media program provider to brand the viewer generated content as being sponsored by or sourced by the media program provider thus diluting the value of the content itself.

Further the generation and transmission of viewer generated media from viewer devices to the media program provider and the transmission of content generated from the viewer generated media and back to the viewer devices can be throughput intensive. Although many viewers may wish to submit such viewer generated content using portable devices such as smartphones such devices typically communicate over third generation 3G or fourth generation 4G mobile data telecommunication networks. Such networks have limited bandwidth and viewers are typically charged for exceeding their allocated data transfer allotment for the billing period.

Further it can be difficult for broadcasters to judge the potential popularity of viewer generated content especially in circumstances when the broadcaster is receiving large volumes of viewer generated content from a large number of viewers. At the same time the broadcaster must assure that the viewer generated content will not offend a significant number of viewers or run askance of laws governing the suitability of content for broadcast e.g. Federal Communications Commission rules against the broadcast of obscene or indecent programming or programming including profane language at specific times of the day.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 464 304 issued to Harwell et al. on Jun. 11 2013 discloses a system for receiving and distributing user generated video content. The system receives video data from a client computing device where the video data is captured using a camera connected to the client computing device in accordance with instructions executed on the client computing device to provide the video data in accordance with predetermined constraints. The video data is automatically transcoded into at least one different format based on user credentials associated with a user of the client computing device and or attributes associated with the video data. At least one format of the transcoded video data defines a video file in a format appropriate for inclusion in a linear television programming transmission and the transcoded video data is uploaded to a server for distribution. However the Harwell system cannot support the transmission of such processed video data to other users in near real time.

What is needed is a system and method for in the moment acquisition management of viewer authored content and dissemination of viewer authored media generated from the viewer authored content relevant to the demographic watching those media programs. The system and methods described below satisfy these needs. The disclosed system and method 1 simplifies the process for viewers to provide viewer authored media to broadcasters while minimizing the data transmission requirements between portable viewer devices and the broadcaster 2 allows advance approval for the broadcasters to use that viewer generated content to generate and disseminate viewer authored content and 3 provides for management of viewer generated content 4 integrates with social networks that can be used to at least preliminarily assess the popularity and suitability of the viewer generated content for broadcast to other viewers.

To address the requirements described above the present invention discloses a method apparatus and system for providing viewer derived content for broadcast presentation in conjunction with a broadcast of a media program by a provider of the media program. In one embodiment the method comprises receiving viewer registration information uniquely associated with a viewer via an application executing on a viewer device the application for collecting the viewer registration information viewer authored content and viewer authored content metadata associated with the viewer authored content receiving the viewer authored content and the viewer authored content metadata in a content management system processing the viewer authored content according to the viewer authored metadata to generate the viewer derived content queuing the viewer derived content with other viewer derived content generated from viewer authored content from other viewers for consideration for the broadcast presentation in conjunction with the broadcast of the media program determining if the viewer derived content complies with broadcast regulations or quality standards selecting the viewer derived content for broadcast presentation in conjunction with the live broadcast of the media program if the viewer derived content complies with the broadcast regulations or the quality standards and providing the viewer derived content for broadcast in conjunction with the live broadcast of the media program.

In another embodiment an apparatus comprises a processor and a memory coupled to the processor wherein the memory storing a plurality of instructions comprising instructions for performing the above operations.

In still another embodiment a system comprises a viewer device comprising a viewer device processor and a viewer device memory communicatively coupled to the processor and also comprises a viewer authored content acquisition and management system VACAMS that comprises a VACAMS processor a VACAMS memory coupled to the VACAMS processor the memory storing a plurality of instructions comprising instructions for performing the above operations.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which is shown by way of illustration several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The VACAMS also comprises a server such as a cloud web server which accepts information from the device via the communications network and provides that information to other elements of the VACAMS including the content management system CMS and cloud database . The CMS manages the data received from viewers which include VAC such as videos PNGs GIFs JPEGs as well as text.

The CMS is used to determine which of the VDC generated from the VDC is provided to the broadcaster for rebroadcast or transmitted to other viewer devices for display to other viewers via the server . Such determinations are recorded in database .

The CMS can automatically perform many of the management functions allowing submitted VAC to be rapidly accepted analyzed filtered vetted and rebroadcast. Typically however the ultimate vetting or selection of VDC for use in conjunction with a concurrent on air broadcast is performed by manual review of VAC or VDC generated from the VAC for example by manual e.g. human in the loop review processes using the CMS . Such operations can comprise for example a staff with expertise in digital on air production selecting content and making it available to produce on air advertisements or enhancements to the on air program and or related social network.

The rapidity with which the VDC can be generated from the VAC processed and rebroadcast is an important capability of the VACAMS as this rapidity provides a paradigm shift in the use of such VAC by providing in the moment promotion about the shows or media programs associated with the VAC and promotions that are well branded for the targeted demographic of viewers that watch the show. The VACAMS also automatically accepts information regarding VDC from other viewers that can be used in rapidly determining whether the VDC is suitable for broadcast by the broadcaster or sharing via social networks and the like.

The welcome screen includes three viewer selectable controls including a first control for a registered viewer to sign in to the VACAMS system a second control for an unregistered viewer to register with the VACAMS system and a third control to allow the viewer to preview trending VDC submitted by other viewers and accepted and provided for broadcast or other transmission by the VACAMS .

From welcome screen the user may select the register control and a registration screen is presented. At this point the user uses the keyboard interface shown in screen to enter user information and transmits that information to the VACAMS for storage in the database . Registration screen includes input fields for the viewer to enter their name email address desired user name password and password confirmation using for example the alphanumeric interface shown in screen . Screen further includes a terms of use and privacy policy control that retrieves from the VACAMS the terms of the viewer s use of the VACAMS system and the privacy policy. This information may be pre stored in the device or included in the application or may be retrieved from the VACAMS via the communication network . This permits the viewer to obtain the latest updates regarding terms of use and privacy policy for example to account for expanded or different terms of use that change with time or for viewers who have submitted VAC.

Returning to block transmits at least a subset of the viewer registration information to social networks such as FACEBOOK and TWITTER using APIs provided by those social networks and executing on the device or using a native API implemented by the media sharing application executing on the device . In one embodiment only a subset of such data is provided so as to be consistent with the user s privacy preferences privacy related legal requirements. Alternatively the viewer registration information can be provided to the VACAMS and forwarded to the social network.

Block receives the viewer information in the web server and stores it in the database as illustrated in block .

Once the viewer has registered for the first time or a pre registered viewer has signed in they may be presented with a main menu screen or a feed screen as further discussed in connection with below.

If the user selects control a message is transmitted to the VACAMS indicating that an unregistered user has requested to view a general trending screen showing VDC generated from VAC submitted by other viewers that the CMS of the VACAMS has selected for presentation in the trending feed. The VACAMS responds by sending a trending feed to the device . The device receives the trending feed and reproduces the media of the trending feed on the display of the device . In the illustrated embodiment the trending feed can show media that is featured selected by the VACAMS recently made available or popular e.g. viewer feedback via the one or more social networks via controls A B and C respectively . A registered viewer that has not yet signed in may also elect to do so from screen as well using control .

The trending feed typically includes VDC derived from the VAC of other users but may include other content as well. In one embodiment this trending feed for an as yet unregistered user differs from the trending feed provided to a registered user in that the trending feed can be customized according to registered user requirements for example by customizing the feed to show content derived from content authored by other viewers followed by the viewer or by affinity other viewers receiving positive feedback . . . for example likes from the registered viewer or other registered viewers for the content they submitted while the trending feed for unregistered users cannot do so because the demographic of the user is unavailable. The trending feed for registered users may also be customized to change the way in which the data is presented. Further the presentation of trending viewer provided content can be limited to featured viewer provided content selected by the CMS using control A recent viewer provided content using control B or popular content liked by the greatest number in the social network by selection of control C.

Selection of the search control allows the user to enter a keyword search to search for VAC VDC from other viewers using the metadata such users provided with their VAC or to search for other users with the results presented in presents the search result screen . The viewer may enter alphanumeric data in the device using a suitable interface and this data is transmitted to the VACAMS . The VACAMS searches the database for information complying with the alphanumeric data and transmits the information to the device for display. In one embodiment a predictive search is utilized wherein the search results are updated with each character entered according to previous searches by the viewer. Using this interface and method the viewer can search for hash tags associated with content other viewers or other suitable subject or a keyword search for any feed notifications.

If the VAC or VDC is to be shared on a social network the information indicating as such is transmitted to the VACAMS which transmits the appropriate information to the selected social network as shown in . If the VDC generated from the VAC is to be reported as inappropriate information indicating as such is transmitted to the VACAMS where it is accepted and entered by the CMS and then entered into the database as described further below.

As shown in the trending screen may be initially presented as a number of images with no detail regarding the username of the user providing the VAC used to generate the VDC favorites or comments. This allows the screen real estate to be used more efficiently and for the user to rapidly swipe the touch screen of the device to view a large number of images in succession. Selecting on one of the images related to the VAC e.g. by tapping area transmits information to the VACAMS requesting the trending detail which is transmitted to the device and rendered as shown in screen . The feed images may be static images GIFs or videos. In one embodiment the feed images present video files that are proxies for GIF files that are stored in the VACAMS and broadcast in conjunction with the media program. For example although a GIF is a series of still images what is transmitted to the media devices are MPEGs that mimic the multiple images sequentially presented in a typical GIF. MPEGs are typically more lightweight that GIFs as they use inter prediction among frames and this feature reduces the bandwidth required to transmit the proxy VDC to the media devices and the memory required to store the associated files. The proxy VDC may be transmitted as AAC MPEG HVAC or any standard video format.

Two image capture modes are included for use in generating VDC a single still image mode using screen and a GIF mode using screen . In the illustrated embodiment the still image capture screen is initially presented. The still image capture screen includes a control that selects still image capture when in a first position A and multiple image capture for the GIF mode when the control is moved to select second position B thus providing screen .

Turning first to the single still image capture mode supported by screen the user simply activates a control hardware or tap control on the touch sensitive screen to capture an image and taps the image itself e.g. location to review the captured image by viewing screen .

The multiple image capture screen is used to obtain images that can be used generate a GIF. Once this screen is active the user activates a control e.g. hardware control or tap control and a number of images are captured. In one embodiment the capture of multiple images is accomplished using a screen similar to the single still image capture screen with multiple image capture being indicated by holding down the control until the desired number of still images is obtained.

An area of the screen may be presented showing how many images of the series of images have been captured. As illustrated in three of ten images have been captured.

The sharing application executing on the device may use pre stored defaults or a control regarding whether the user would like to share the VAC or the VDC in social networks such FACEBOOK TWITTER PINTEREST or TUMBLR and indicating whether the user would like to submit the VAC to the VACAMS for consideration for broadcast distribution. This allows the user to share the VAC or VDC simultaneously with social networks and the VACAMS with a single command submitted via a single device. In the illustrated embodiment separate controls A D are provided for each social network and a separate control is provided to select whether the VAC or VDC generated from the VAC is submitted for on air broadcast. Each of these controls may be individually specified to default to a particular value off do not share or on share and made available to change this value. The application executed on the mobile device may be configured so that screen is always presented before sharing the VAC or VDC or may be configured so that it may be skipped if the user indicates a desire to do so.

The sharing screen also includes a control which defaults to a no condition asking whether the user has read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the submittal. The user may also desire to add metadata to the submitted VAC. Such metadata may include location information which can be associated with the VAC for transmission to the VACAMS by selecting the control adjacent the location text which provides screen for selecting or inputting a location. Selecting the check control on the share screen causes the device to present screen which shows a representation of the VAC the username and location if provided and the upload status via a progress bar. The VAC is transmitted to the VACAMS . Success or failure of the upload may also be indicated in the same region as the progress bar.

The transmission of the viewer derived content VDC and associated is also depicted in block of . Referring to the web server receives the VAC and metadata and stores it for further use as shown in block . The VAC is then provided to the media server which processes the VAC to generate viewer derived content VDC as shown in block .

The VAC and VDC may take different forms and the generation of VDC from the VAC can be implemented in several different embodiments. In this disclosure VAC refers to content that is authored by the user and transmitted to the VACAMS and optionally user selected social networks while VDC refers to the viewer derived content that is generated from the VAC by the VACAMS including the VAC that is broadcast or transmitted back to the device for viewing or optionally to social networks. Table 1 below provides a summary of different embodiments of VAC and VDC formats and where they are generated.

As illustrated in table 1 the VAC transmitted from the device to the VACAMS may be a single simple image. The image may be uncompressed in RAW or .bmp format or may be compressed in a .jpg Joint Picture Expert Group compliant other format e.g. .png .gif .tif or .img . The VACAMS may then generate a image that is reformatted to another compression standard or decompressed image and may also enhance the image to make it more suitable for broadcast. For example the VAC may be of a pixel dimension s that is inconsistent with broadcast standards and may need to be cropped or resized to convert the image to an appropriate size. The VAC image may also need enhancements to adjust contrast equalization hue or saturation to make the image consistent with the contrast equalization hue or saturation of other images including video images presented by the broadcaster at substantially the same time interval.

Different VDC may be generated from the VAC. For example Table 1 shows that the VDC may include two reformatted enhanced images one for broadcast purposes and the other for returning to the device so that it may be displayed to the user that submitted the VAC used to generate the VDC. This is useful in reducing transmission bandwidth and capacity requirements because the VDC transmitted back to the user device may be more strongly compressed or may be a lower resolution image than the image used in the broadcast or website or even the VAC originally submitted.

In one embodiment the application executing on the mobile device automatically configures the VAC image to be consistent with broadcast requirements. For example if the broadcasted image requires a minimum 720 pixel resolution the application executing in the device can be configured to either take the image itself with a 720 pixel resolution command an independent photo application executing on the device to use a minimum 720 pixel resolution or can convert an image taken with a different e.g. lower resolution to one that is 720 pixels.

In another embodiment the VAC transmitted by the device comprises a series or sequence of still images. While it is possible for the application executing on the device to create a GIF for transmission to the VACAMS GIFs typically have a limited color palette of 256 colors that make GIFs less than ideal for reproducing color photographs for a website or for making movies. GIFs however are better suited for simpler images such as graphics or logos with large swaths of solid color. This embodiment has the advantage of providing the highest quality images to the VACAMS for use in generating the VAC so that images of the high resolution and quality are available for broadcast.

As shown in Table I the sequence of still images is transmitted to the VACAMS which then generates one or more GIFs or MPEGs based on the sequence of still images. The series of images can be compressed for example by creation of a .jpg or a .tif file for each image and a .zip file comprising the plurality of .jpg or .tif files before transmission to the VACAMS where the .zip file can be decompressed and the image files recovered. The image files can be used to create additional or alternative image files such as JPEGs. Such filed may be resized cropped or otherwise adjusted for use in a website or broadcast as described above.

Also as shown in Table I the recovered still images can be used to generate one or more MPEGs. For example one MPEG can be a high resolution frame rate MPEG that is used for broadcasting to other users or for an associated website and another MPEG can be a lower resolution frame rate version that is transmitted back to the device that provided the VAC to allow the user to view the generated VDC.

In one embodiment one or both of the MPEGs used for broadcasting website and for later transmission to the user device that provided the VAC to create the VDC are created directly from the sequence of still images. In another embodiment the GIF is created and one or more MPEGs are created from the GIF. For example a higher resolution MPEG can be generated from the GIF for broadcast or website use while a lower resolution MPEG can be generated from the GIF and transmitted back to the device that provided the VAC thus allowing the user to view the VDC derived from the VAC they authored for example on the same user device used to author the VAC. This embodiment has the advantage that MPEGs offer greater compression than do GIFs and thus require less bandwidth to transmit back to the device . Additionally lower resolution MPEG files are smaller in size thus requiring less storage on both the VACAMS and the user device and are readily reproducible using software resident on a wide variety of user devices .

In another embodiment the VAC comprises a GIF that is generated by the device using the series of still images. The GIF is then transmitted to the VACAMS and used to generate a reformatted enhanced GIF. The GIF may be resized to be smaller or larger cropped split or otherwise optimized. This may involve a color reduction less than 256 colors lossy compression or can remove frames e.g. every nth frame . The resulting GIF may be used on a website or particularly smaller GIFs returned to the device . Further a high resolution and or frame rate MPEG can be produced for broadcast website purposes and a reduced resolution and or frame rate MPEG can be generated for to return to the user device .

Finally in another embodiment the VAC comprises an MPEG that is generated by the user device either using a series of still images or by use of a movie generating application resident in viewer authored media sharing application. The generated MPEG file is transmitted from the device to the VACAMS where it is received and processed as shown in block . Still images can be extracted from the MPEG file and used to generate reformatted enhanced still images or a GIF based on the still images. Further a reformatted enhanced MPEG may be generated from the VAC.

Returning to the VAC received from the user device the VDC generated from the VAC and metadata associated with the submitted VAC or the processed VDC is stored in the database as shown in blocks . Viewer authored metadata may include viewer permission to broadcast the VAC or modifications of the VAC such as the VDC information sufficient to confirm viewer competency to enter agreements to broadcast the VAC or VDC viewer contact information and viewer geographical location. Such information may be provided with registration information or provided with the VAC and can be automatically verified by comparison with verifying information from sources independent from the information provided by the user. For example geographical information may be confirmed from the Internet Protocol IP address of the user.

The metadata may include any of the data entered by the user e.g. permissions the name of the submitting user social network identifiers of the user hashtags or keywords and a title of the VAC and may also include metadata generated by the VACAMS based upon the VAC or the VDC. For example such metadata may include additional keywords generated from analysis of the VAC for example by image recognition or metadata describing the generated VDC resolution pixel size frame rate for example .

Block illustrates the generation of a VDC proxy from the generated VAC. For example in the above described case where a sequence of images are transmitted from the device to the VACAMS and used to generate the VDC in the form of a GIF an MPEG file may be generated from the GIF as a proxy for the VAC. The VDC in the form of a GIF may present a sequence of 10 still images but while the VDC proxy in the form of an MPEG may comprise 50 frames or more some of which are I frames some P or B frames the MPEG may be more highly compressed than the GIF and thus require less transmission bandwidth to transmit the VDC to the device that submitted the VAC or viewer devices associated with other users. In block the VDC proxy is stored in the database. Finally the VDC proxy is transmitted to the viewer device as shown in blocks and . In accordance with the metadata associated with the VAC and or VDC or a URL to an entity hosting the VAC or VDC may be sent to social networks as directed by the user as shown in block . Although this task is illustrated as being performed by the CMS in alternate embodiments the VAC VDC proxy and or a URL to the VAC VDC proxy may be transmitted from the VACAMS to the viewer device API and the API forwards this information to the designated social networks.

The user s profile related posts or profile photos may be submitted for on air consideration submitted for sharing via a social network or deleted by selecting the ellipses control shown in profile posts action screen and selecting the appropriate option on the profile posts action screen . Thus when VAC is submitted to the VACAMS and selected for broadcast the profile picture of the viewer submitting the VAC can also be provided for broadcast. Thus the viewer s profile photo is also a category of VAC.

In block the queue is retrieved and transmitted to an API for the VACAMS so that the queue can be presented on a display for review. Exemplary embodiments of the display provided by the API are provided below. Using the API a user of the VACAMS may review and manage the VDC queue including flagging VDC for on air broadcast use in a website or flagging the VDC or comments for abuse copyright violation or other inappropriateness. In block a request for VDCs of interest that were submitted for on air broadcast is made to the CMS and in blocks and the CMS and database retrieve the VAC VDC and associated metadata. In an alternative embodiment the VAC VDC be stored on the media server or on a third party server while the metadata is stored in the database . The retrieved VAC VDC and metadata is retrieved and provided to the API for display to the user as shown in block . In block the user requests and or designates VAC VDC for broadcast. As further described below a VAC VAC may also be selected to appear in a featured feed by flagging the VDC or posts as featured. In block the requested VDC along with metadata and optionally the VDC associated with the VAC is provided to the broadcaster for broadcast in conjunction with the media program.

Selection of a Feature or Unfeature button in the Application Users view of the interface commands the CMS API to update the database so that the particular user is marked as featured a featured field in the database is set to 1 for featured or 0 for unfeatured. Posts made by featured users are automatically marked as featured by the API setting the post s featured key to 1 . Featured posts will be selected by the API to be shown in the application s Featured News Feed a collection of posts that have been marked as featured. Upon a feature or unfeature event clicking feature or unfeature button in the CMS previous posts in the database made by the user are not retroactively updated to featured 1 or 0 by the API.

Clicking Inactivate or Activate button in the Application Users view of the interface commands the API to update the database by setting the user s active field to 1 in the case of activate or 0 in the case of inactivate. Users with an active field set to 0 in the database are disallowed from making further posts or comments and their profile is precluded from being selected by the API when retrieving lists of users profiles or displaying individual profiles.

Clicking the Feature or Unfeature button in the Post view commands the API to update the database so that the subject post is marked as featured a featured field in the database is set to 1 for featured or 0 for unfeatured . Posts with a featured field set to 1 are selected by the API to be displayed in the Featured News Feed of the device applications. A feature or unfeature event clicking feature or unfeature button in the CMS s post view has no effect on other posts made by the same user.

Clicking the Ban or Remove Ban button the CMS s Post view commands the API to update the database by setting the posts ban field to 1 or 0 respectively. Posts with a ban field set to 1 in the database are filtered out of all data collected by the API for display in the device application s User News Feed Popular News Fee and Recent News Feed 

Clicking the Ban or Remove Ban in the CMS s Comment view interface tells the API to update the database by setting the comment s ban field to 1 or 0 respectively. Comments with a ban field set to 1 in the database are filtered out of all data collected by the API for display in the device application s Post Details comments section.

The CMS asks the API to retrieve all posts in the database with an on air field set to 1. Users have the choice of marking posts they are willing to have shown in conjunction with the broadcast. When a user uploads a photo or other viewer authored content they have marked as television eligible the API sets the post s on Air field to 1 when it save the photo s meta data to the database .

The CMS asks the API to retrieve all posts comments in the database with an abuse reports count field having a value of 1 or greater. When device application users flag a post comment as abusive the CMS receives this information and the API increments the abuse reports count field by 1. Posts comments with an abuse reports count greater than or equal to N 5 for example are filtered out of all posts comments retrieved from the database by the API for consideration for broadcast.

This control submits data for updating creating FAQ privacy and terms pages to the API for saving to the database . The device application retrieves these pages from the Web as described above.

The hashtag column presents an image of the VDC typically a selected still image related to the VDC and any hashtags associated with the VAC. The popularity column indicates a measure of the popularity of the VAC. Popularity can be determined by one or more factors including a number of views a number of likes favorites or other factors. The favorites column indicates the number of users who have indicated that the VDC is a favorite. Column indicates the username of the viewer that provided the VAC that was used to generate the VDC. Column includes a character that indicates whether the VDC is a featured VDC that is to be presented in the featured feed. Column indicates the date when the VDC was generated or alternately when the VAC that was used to generate the VDC was provided.

Column has a control allowing the user to perform a character search to display hashtags with the combination of characters entered into the control. The popularity column includes a max min control that allows the user to limit the VDC presented in the interface to VDC that has a popularity measure between the input limits entered into the control. The favorites column includes a control that allows the user to limit the VDC that is presented in the UI to those that are between a maximum and minimum value. The username column includes a control that allows the user to limit the VDC shown in the UI to those associated with usernames that comply with characters entered into the control. The featured column includes a control that allows the user to limit the VDC shown in the UI to VDC that have are not featured or are featured. Finally the created column includes a control that limits those VDC presented in the UI to those created between specified dates entered via the control. In one embodiment the data and metadata presented in the UI can be edited by selecting the appropriate row and column and changing the information. A particular VDC may be selected by selecting the thumbnail image associated with the VAC. This presents the VDC UI.

The VDC UI also includes a feature control a ban control a download control and a watermark control . The feature control can be used to toggle whether the associated VDC is part of the featured feed. The ban control can be used to ban remove from distribution to other users the VDC or the user. Download control can be used to download the VDC shown in the window so that it can be provided for broadcast or other disposition. Finally the watermark control can be used to watermark the VAC.

In block the VACAMS receives viewer registration information uniquely associated with a viewer via the installed application via the device . This information can be received for example by the application executing in the device and accepting the information into screens and discussed above. If the viewer is already registered the registration step is unnecessary.

In block viewer authored content is received by the VACAMS . This can occur at anytime but preferably occurs during or temporally proximate the live broadcast of the media program that is the subject of or related to the viewer authored content. The viewer authored content is received for consideration by the provider of the media program for presentation in conjunction with the live broadcast of the media program. As described above the viewer providing the viewer authored content to the VACAMS has typically pre approved the use and dissemination of the viewer authored content for example by checking the appropriate box in screen shown in before sending the content. Typically the content cannot be sent until they ve pre approved it s dissemination by checking the box. The information transmitted to the VACAMS provides a means by which the identity and contact information of the viewer may be pre determined for example by transmitting a user ID some time during the viewer s session with the VACAMS and associating the user ID with a particular user .

Block provides the viewer authored content to a content management system CMS further described below. In block the CMS queues the viewer authored content with other viewer authored content from other viewers for consideration for presentation in conjunction with the live broadcast of the media program related to the viewer authored content. Block determines if the viewer authored content complies with broadcast regulations. For example it is typically required that any viewer authored content used in on air broadcasts must be manually reviewed to assure that it complies with obscenity regulations is age appropriate for the media program and to assure that it does not disparage other viewers or the media program broadcaster or other parties as well.

In block the viewer authored content is selected for broadcast presentation in conjunction with the live broadcast of the media program. This can occur in a number of different ways. For example the viewer authored content can be used as a bumper that is aired in short intervals between the media program and advertisements broadcast during the media program. The viewer authored content may be transmitted as a lead in to the media program itself or used in web based marketing materials. A commercial break presenting the top five mimes of the evening may also be presented with those top five mimes sponsored by a particular paying sponsor. In another embodiment viewer authored content is presented in other viewers device applications as well. For that matter the application installed on the device may be sponsored by a paying sponsor.

In one embodiment the media program referred to above is one of a plurality of episodes of a show and the show is one of a plurality of shows provided by the media provider wherein each show has associated editorial standards that are transmitted to the device . For example the media program provider may be FOX the show may be one of the shows provided by FOX e.g. THE SIMPSONS that has associated editorial standards that differ from other FOX shows e.g. AMERICAN IDOL and the media program is an episode of THE SIMPSONS. The application executing on the device may be used to provide VAC to the VACAMS for both AMERICAN IDOL and THE SIMPSONS but editorial standards e.g. suitability for younger audiences transmitted to the device for THE SIMPSONS may differ from those of AMERICAN IDOL. The metadata associated with the VAC may include keywords or hashtags describing attributes of the VAC. That information can be sent to the VACAMS to assist in determining if the VAC complies with the editorial standards associated with the show e.g. THE SIMPSONS or using instructions executing in the device the device can determine if the VAC complies with the editorial standards of the show associated with the media program. This can be accomplished by comparison of the editorial standards which may include keywords which indicate that the VAC does not comply and the keywords in the metadata. VAC not complying with the editorial standards may be nonetheless transmitted from the device to the VACAMS or such transmission may be prevented.

As described above the VAC may comprise a plurality of independent media files e.g. JPEGs or TIFFs with each file comprising an intra compressed image. Intra compressed images are images that do not depend upon other images for information used in the decompression process. For example one JPEG does not typically require reference to another JPEG to permit decompression. An example of an image that is not only intra compressed is an MPEG frame. MPEG frames include I frames which are only intra compressed and do not require information from other frames for decompression and P predictive and B predictive frames in which decompression and decoding of the frame requires information from other frames. The plurality of independent media files may be compressed e.g. by a ZIP utility to produce an archive file of the JPEGs . After the ZIP file is decompressed an animated image file GIF maybe created from the independent files then a compressed video file such an MPEG MP3 QUICKTIME or other file is created from the GIF thus mimicking the animated image provided when the GIF file is executed. This compressed video file acts as a proxy for the GIF file.

In one embodiment the computer operates by the general purpose processor A performing instructions defined by the computer program under control of an operating system . The computer program and or the operating system may be stored in the memory and may interface with the user and or other devices to accept input and commands and based on such input and commands and the instructions defined by the computer program and operating system to provide output and results.

Output results may be presented on the display or provided to another device for presentation or further processing or action. In one embodiment the display comprises a liquid crystal display LCD having a plurality of separately addressable pixels formed by liquid crystals. Each pixel of the display changes to an opaque or translucent state to form a part of the image on the display in response to the data or information generated by the processor from the application of the instructions of the computer program and or operating system to the input and commands. Other display types also include picture elements that change state in order to create the image presented on the display . The image may be provided through a graphical user interface GUI module A. Although the GUI module A is depicted as a separate module the instructions performing the GUI functions can be resident or distributed in the operating system the computer program or implemented with special purpose memory and processors.

Some or all of the operations performed by the computer according to the computer program instructions may be implemented in a special purpose processor B. In this embodiment some or all of the computer program instructions may be implemented via firmware instructions stored in a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM or flash memory within the special purpose processor B or in memory . The special purpose processor B may also be hardwired through circuit design to perform some or all of the operations to implement the present invention. Further the special purpose processor B may be a hybrid processor which includes dedicated circuitry for performing a subset of functions and other circuits for performing more general functions such as responding to computer program instructions. In one embodiment the special purpose processor is an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computer may also implement a compiler which allows an application program written in a programming language such as COBOL C FORTRAN or other language to be translated into processor readable code. After completion the application or computer program accesses and manipulates data accepted from I O devices and stored in the memory of the computer using the relationships and logic that was generated using the compiler .

The computer also optionally comprises an external communication device such as a modem satellite link Ethernet card or other device for accepting input from and providing output to other computers.

In one embodiment instructions implementing the operating system the computer program and or the compiler are tangibly embodied in a computer readable medium e.g. data storage device which could include one or more fixed or removable data storage devices such as a zip drive floppy disc drive hard drive CD ROM drive tape drive or a flash drive. Further the operating system and the computer program are comprised of computer program instructions which when accessed read and executed by the computer causes the computer to perform the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention or to load the program of instructions into a memory thus creating a special purpose data structure causing the computer to operate as a specially programmed computer executing the method steps described herein. Computer program and or operating instructions may also be tangibly embodied in memory and or data communications devices thereby making a computer program product or article of manufacture according to the invention. As such the terms article of manufacture program storage device and computer program product or computer readable storage device as used herein are intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components peripherals and other devices may be used with the computer .

Although the term computer is referred to herein it is understood that the computer may include portable devices such as smartphones portable MP3 players video game consoles notebook computers pocket computers or any other device with suitable processing communication and input output capability.

This concludes the description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention. The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

