---

title: Internet connected household identification for online measurement and dynamic content delivery
abstract: A method, apparatus, system, and computer readable storage medium provide the ability to identify an internet connected household (ICH). An Internet Protocol (IP) address is received at an Internet entity. Determinations are made regarding whether device activity from the IP address does not exceed a defined activity threshold and whether an IP assignment age for the IP address is greater than a defined threshold age. Based on the determinations, the IP address can be identified as belonging to an ICH or not.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996727&OS=08996727&RS=08996727
owner: Vindico, LLC
number: 08996727
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140324
---
This application is a continuation application and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 120 of the following co pending and commonly assigned U.S. utility patent application s which is are incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 895 587 filed on May 16 2013 by Brian C. DeFrancesco Timothy C. Vanderhook and Christopher J. Vanderhook entitled INTERNET CONNECTED HOUSEHOLD IDENTIFICATION FOR ONLINE MEASUREMENT DYNAMIC CONTENT DELIVERY which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 648 341 filed on May 17 2012 by Brian C. DeFrancesco Timothy C. Vanderhook and Christopher Vanderhook entitled INTERNET CONNECTED HOUSEHOLD IDENTIFICATION FOR ONLINE MEASUREMENT DYNAMIC CONTENT DELIVERY which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to identifying users on a network and in particular to a method apparatus and article of manufacture for identifying households for online measurement and dynamic content delivery.

The US Census Bureau defines a household as A household includes all the persons who occupy a housing unit. A housing unit is a house an apartment a mobile home a group of rooms or a single room that is occupied or if vacant is intended for occupancy as separate living quarters. Separate living quarters are those in which the occupants live and eat separately from any other persons in the building and which have direct access from the outside of the building or through a common hall. The occupants may be a single family one person living alone two or more families living together or any other group of related or unrelated persons who share living arrangements. See http quickfacts.census.gov qfd meta long HSD310200.htm .

An internet connected household is a household that uses the Internet at home. The US Census Bureau reports there are 81 939 000 households that use the Internet at home internet connected households in the United States. Source U.S. Census Bureau Current Population Survey October 2009.

An ISP is a company that supplies Internet connectivity to home and business customers. ISPs support one or more forms of Internet access ranging from modem dial up to DSL digital subscriber line and cable modem broadband service to dedicated T1 T3 lines to satellite or wireless access.

A regional Internet registry RIR is an organization that manages the allocation and registration of Internet number resources within a particular region of the world. Internet number resources include IP internet protocol addresses and autonomous system AS numbers.

The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority IRNA delegates Internet resources to the RIRs who in turn follow their regional policies to delegate resources to their customers which include Internet service providers and end user organizations.

Collectively the RIRs participate in the Number Resource Organization NRO formed as a body to represent their collective interests undertake joint activities and coordinate their activities globally. The NRO has entered into an agreement with ICANN for the establishment of the Address Supporting Organisation ASO which undertakes coordination of global IP addressing policies within the ICANN framework. See http en.wikipedia.org wiki Regional Internet registry .

An IP address is a logical address for a network adapter. Generally speaking an IP address uniquely identifies computers on a TCP IP network transmission control protocol Internet protocol network .

An IP address can be private for use on a local area network LAN or public for use on the Internet or other wide area network WAN . IP addresses can be determined statically assigned to a computer by a system administrator or dynamically assigned by another device on the network on demand .

Two IP addressing standards are in use today. The IPv4 standard is most familiar to people and supported everywhere on the Internet but the newer IPv6 standard is planned to replace it and is starting to be deployed.

IPv4 addresses consist of four bytes 32 bits . Each byte of an IP address is known as an octet. Octets can take any value between 0 and 255. Various conventions exist for the numbering and use of IP addresses. See http compnetworking.about.com od workingwithipaddresses g ip addresses.htm .

TCP IP is the communication protocol for the Internet. A computer communication protocol is a description of the rules computers must follow to communicate with each other. TCP IP defines how electronic devices like computers should be connected to the Internet and how data should be transmitted between them. Each computer must have an IP address before it can connect to the Internet and each IP packet must have an address before it can be sent to another computer. See http www.w3schools.com tcpip tcpip intro.asp .

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol provides a standard for Web browsers and servers to communicate. HTTP is an application layer network protocol built on top of TCP. HTTP clients such as Web browsers and servers communicate via HTTP request and response messages. See http compnetworking about.com od networkprotocols g bldef http.htm .

Embodiments of the invention provide for an Internet Connected Household Identification. Such an identification is a system for identifying Households for use in online media measurement including but not limited to website analytics consumer interests and profiling purchase activity social activity and dynamic content delivery including but not limited to media music video or any multimedia digital streaming format advertisements and text graphic content articles links images animations etc. .

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which is shown by way of illustration several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the invention evaluate the IP address associated with a client computer request and determine whether the IP address belongs to an ISP that provides residential internet service. Further determinations are made regarding device activity from the device associated with the IP address e.g. whether it exceeds a threshold level of activity expected from a household and an IP assignment age e.g. whether the age of the IP address exceeds a threshold age associated with households . Based on the determinations a further determination can be made regarding whether the IP address web request originates from an ICH.

In one embodiment the computer operates by the general purpose processor A performing instructions defined by the computer program under control of an operating system . The computer program and or the operating system may be stored in the memory and may interface with the user and or other devices to accept input and commands and based on such input and commands and the instructions defined by the computer program and operating system to provide output and results.

Output results may be presented on the display or provided to another device for presentation or further processing or action. In one embodiment the display comprises a liquid crystal display LCD having a plurality of separately addressable liquid crystals. Alternatively the display may comprise a light emitting diode LED display having clusters of red green and blue diodes driven together to form full color pixels. Each liquid crystal or pixel of the display changes to an opaque or translucent state to form a part of the image on the display in response to the data or information generated by the processor from the application of the instructions of the computer program and or operating system to the input and commands. The image may be provided through a graphical user interface GUI module A. Although the GUI module A is depicted as a separate module the instructions performing the GUI functions can be resident or distributed in the operating system the computer program or implemented with special purpose memory and processors.

In one or more embodiments the display is integrated with into the computer and comprises a multi touch device having a touch sensing surface e.g. track pod or touch screen with the ability to recognize the presence of two or more points of contact with the surface. Examples of multi touch devices include mobile devices e.g. iPhone Nexus S Droid devices etc. tablet computers e.g. iPad HP Touchpad portable handheld game music video player console devices e.g. iPod Touch MP3 players Nintendo 3DS PlayStation Portable etc. touch tables and walls e.g. where an image is projected through acrylic and or glass and the image is then backlit with LEDs .

Some or all of the operations performed by the computer according to the computer program instructions may be implemented in a special purpose processor B. In this embodiment some or all of the computer program instructions may be implemented via firmware instructions stored in a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM or flash memory within the special purpose processor B or in memory . The special purpose processor B may also be hardwired through circuit design to perform some or all of the operations to implement the present invention. Further the special purpose processor B may be a hybrid processor which includes dedicated circuitry for performing a subset of functions and other circuits for performing more general functions such as responding to computer program instructions. In one embodiment the special purpose processor is an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computer may also implement a compiler that allows an application program written in a programming language such as COBOL Pascal C FORTRAN or other language to be translated into processor readable code. Alternatively the compiler may be an interpreter that executes instructions source code directly translates source code into an intermediate representation that is executed or that executes stored precompiled code. Such source code may be written in a variety of programming languages such as Java Perl Basic etc. After completion the application or computer program accesses and manipulates data accepted from I O devices and stored in the memory of the computer using the relationships and logic that were generated using the compiler .

The computer also optionally comprises an external communication device such as a modem satellite link Ethernet card or other device for accepting input from and providing output to other computers .

In one embodiment instructions implementing the operating system the computer program and the compiler are tangibly embodied in a non transient computer readable medium e.g. data storage device which could include one or more fixed or removable data storage devices such as a zip drive floppy disc drive hard drive CD ROM drive tape drive etc. Further the operating system and the computer program are comprised of computer program instructions which when accessed read and executed by the computer cause the computer to perform the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention or to load the program of instructions into a memory thus creating a special purpose data structure causing the computer to operate as a specially programmed computer executing the method steps described herein. Computer program and or operating instructions may also be tangibly embodied in memory and or data communications devices thereby making a computer program product or article of manufacture according to the invention. As such the terms article of manufacture program storage device and computer program product as used herein are intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components peripherals and other devices may be used with the computer .

A network such as the Internet connects clients to server computers . Network may utilize ethernet coaxial cable wireless communications radio frequency RF etc. to connect and provide the communication between clients and servers . Clients may execute a client application or web browser and communicate with server computers executing web servers . Such a web browser is typically a program such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX OPERA APPLE SAFARI GOOGLE CHROME etc. Further the software executing on clients may be downloaded from server computer to client computers and installed as a plug in or ACTIVEX control of a web browser. Accordingly clients may utilize ACTIVEX components component object model COM or distributed COM DCOM components to provide a user interface on a display of client . The web server is typically a program such as MICROSOFT S INTERNET INFORMATION SERVER .

Web server may host an Active Server Page ASP or Internet Server Application Programming Interface ISAPI application which may be executing scripts. The scripts invoke objects that execute business logic referred to as business objects . The business objects then manipulate data in database through a database management system DBMS . Alternatively database may be part of or connected directly to client instead of communicating obtaining the information from database across network . When a developer encapsulates the business functionality into objects the system may be referred to as a component object model COM system. Accordingly the scripts executing on web server and or application invoke COM objects that implement the business logic. Further server may utilize MICROSOFT S Transaction Server MTS to access required data stored in database via an interface such as ADO Active Data Objects OLE DB Object Linking and Embedding DataBase or ODBC Open DataBase Connectivity .

Generally these components all comprise logic and or data that is embodied in or retrievable from device medium signal or carrier e.g. a data storage device a data communications device a remote computer or device coupled to the computer via a network or via another data communications device etc. Moreover this logic and or data when read executed and or interpreted results in the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention being performed.

Although the terms user computer client computer and or server computer are referred to herein it is understood that such computers and may be interchangeable and may further include thin client devices with limited or full processing capabilities portable devices such as cell phones notebook computers pocket computers multi touch devices and or any other devices with suitable processing communication and input output capability.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components peripherals and other devices may be used with computers and .

In a typical scenario the devices inside a household are on a Local Area Network LAN that is private to the Household . The IP address of each device IP addresses within the household is assigned by the router or modem . The modem communicates with and receives Internet access from the ISP on a wide area network WAN that is usually public. The IP address assigned to the home s modem by the ISP is public as it s what is used in communication with an outside web server .

In some cases multiple homes will be pooled together and will share the same public IP . These are typically in the cases of shared internet apartment complex college university housing etc .

Furthermore the public IP addresses that the ISP assigns to the household s modem may be static or dynamic. In either case the main relevant measure is the stickiness or age of the IP assignment. For example if an IP is assigned dynamically but only on the reset of a modem and the modem is only reset once a year the age of the IP address assignment for the Household is one year.

When Household IPs assignment ages exceed a significant number of days the Household public IP address may serve as a unique identifier for all internet connected device activity from within the Household that are using the Household s ISP internet connection all devices will show the same public IP address when they connect to web servers .

The system of Household identification of embodiments of the invention may use multiple criteria to evaluate each public IP address that an internet entity with web servers receives to determine if each IP address belongs to a Household .

Every public IP address is registered with a RIR regional internet registry and in general most are a part of larger IP range blocks that belong to ISPs . This data is publicly available and each organization ISP can be classified as providing or not providing residential internet service based on publicly available information regarding the company and their offerings.

For example illustrates the publicly available who is information for the IP addresses 174.0.0.0 8 and 174.141.0.0 17 performed using ARIN American Registry for Internet Numbers . The IP address 174.0.0.0 8 is part of a larger range block of IP addresses i.e. 174.0.0.0 174.255.255.255 that is allocated to ARIN an RIR . Using the information from ARIN the IP address block ranges assigned to different organizations can be determined. As illustrated the IP address 174.141.0.0 17 is part of a range block of IP addresses i.e. 174.141.0.0 174.141.127.255 that are directly allocated to Windstream Nuvox Inc. Windstream Nuvox is an ISP that provides residential internet service.

Accordingly if an IP address is registered with an RIR e.g. in a particular region of the world and is part of an IP range block that belongs to an ISP that provides residential internet service a determination can be made that the IP address may be for an ICH. Similarly if the ISP for that IP address does not provide residential service a determination can be made that the IP address is not for an ICH.

By monitoring the activity devices users events for each IP address over a defined period of time example 30 days the IP addresses that are used by non Households businesses and other organization are filtered out by the level of activity observed from these IPs over the time period.

For example if there are 200 devices and 100 users that connect from the same IP address the IP address may be associated with significant activity and is therefore likely that of a business or other non Household organization.

In other words the activity for each IP address is monitored over a defined period of time. If significant activity is found i.e. above a threshold level from a single IP address it can be determined that the IP address is not for an ICH.

In addition to filtering out business and organizations such a criteria also provides a method to remove a small percentage of households that have a short lived IP assignment age. In this regard if the IP is assigned frequently to households in the ISP s customer base the users and devices from that IP accumulate and exceed the threshold to be considered a unique household identifier for any substantial period of time.

In order to ensure an IP address is static enough that it can serve as an identifier for a reasonable period of time the IP stickiness or assignment age is used. This is determined by observing the number of connecting IP addresses from the same ISP over a defined period of time e.g. 90 days . In other words a determination is made if multiple different IP addresses are connected to each other and the combined IP assignment age of the connected IP addresses are utilized in the comparison to the threshold IP assignment age i.e. 45 days .

A connection between two or more IP addresses belonging to the same ISP is made when an identified user has generated activity from two IP addresses. For example if a laptop user is indentified e.g. by a cookie as user 123456 and the laptop participates in web browsing from within an ICH with public IP 100.100.1.1 and then two days later the ICH s IP is changed to 200.200.1.1 by the ISP then the same user who generated activity behind 100.100.1.1 is found generating activity behind IP 200.200.1.1 which creates a connection between these two IP addresses. In other words the same user is identified as belonging to the two IP addresses e.g. using the cookie and the activity on the combined connected IP addresses are utilized when determining if the IP assignment age is greater or less than 45 days.

Beyond a threshold of allowed connections from people physically using a device inside another household e.g. visiting a friend the connection rate and volume will filter short aged IP assignments from being identified as Internet connected households for use in measurement and content distribution.

This provides an additional method to remove a small percentage of households that have a small IP assignment age as these IPs are assigned frequently to households in the ISP s customer base and the users and devices from that IP accumulate and exceed the threshold to be considered a unique household identifier for any substantial period of time.

The application of ICH identification for media includes but is not limited to measurement of distribution and dynamic content delivery optimization and recommendation.

For online web content owners or distribution syndication partners ICH identification provides a method to measure the total ICH s exposure to their content.

For advertiser website owners and analytics firms ICH identification provides a standard measurement of ICH reach exposure advertising return on investment ROI and de duplicated visitation statistics.

ICH data can be collected to create data stores that include interests activities e.g. ads viewed actions e.g. visit to marketer s website . Such data stores can be leveraged to aid in dynamic content selection for content to be delivered to an application or webpage. In addition it can serve to optimize the placement order and display of such content and provide recommendations to household users for additional content engagement.

At step an IP address is received at an Internet entity. For example the IP address may be attached to an HTTP request received at a web server.

At step a determination is made regarding whether the IP address belongs to an ISP that provides residential internet service e.g. referred to herein as the residential internet service status . In this regard based on information from an RIR the ISP assigned an IP range block that includes the IP address can be identified. Thereafter based on publicly available information the ISP can be classified as providing or not providing residential internet service. Accordingly step serves to filter out IP addresses from further processing that are from non residential service based ISPs e.g. those that solely provide business based services . In one or more embodiments the publicly available information may be gathered and stored in a database local or network based . Thus the database may include ISPs that provide residential service ISPs that do not provide residential service and or both . A simple comparison of the ISP to the list of ISPs in the database may be conducted to determine whether the IP address belongs to an ISP that provides residential internet service.

At step a determination is made regarding whether the device activity from the IP address exceeds a defined activity threshold e.g. referred to herein as a device activity status . To make such a determination activity from the IP address may be monitored over a period of time. Further a defined activity threshold for the level of activity for ICHs may be determined. For example the average level of activity for ICHs may be determined based on monitoring such activity over a period of time. Alternatively any other method may be used to determine the activity threshold e.g. a user specified level of activity an ISP specified level of activity etc. . Once the defined activity threshold has been determined e.g. obtained from a database computed etc. the level is compared to the level of activity from the IP address that has been monitored. If the level of activity exceeds the activity threshold the system assumes that the IP address is not for an ICH and filters out the IP address from further processing. However if the level of activity does not exceed the activity threshold then the IP address is not eliminated from further consideration processing.

At step a determination is made regarding whether the IP assignment age for the IP address is greater than a defined threshold age referred to herein as the IP assignment age status . In this regard step is used to ensure that the IP address is static enough that it can serve as an identifier for a reasonable period of time. In other words to effectively use an IP address for further processing the IP address must be static enough that it identifies a particular household.

Often times an IP address is reassigned when a household restarts a modem or for a variety of other reasons. Accordingly embodiments of the invention may observe a number of connecting IP addresses from the ISP over a defined period of time. As described above two IP addresses belonging to the same ISP are connected when a user has generated activity from both of the two IP addresses e.g. the user may be identified from a cookie username registration etc. . A large increase in the IP s number of connecting IPs or users indicates the IP may have rotated and the assignment age is set back to zero 0 days making it invalid to serve as a unique identifier until its assignment age regains maturity.

Once the IP assignment age for the connecting IP addresses is computed it can be compared to a threshold age e.g. 45 days to determine if the address is static enough to use for further processing.

At step it may be determined that the IP address corresponds to an ICH e.g. per steps with sufficient information e.g. per step to enable additional processing. Thus based on the residential internet service status device activity status and IP assignment age status a determination can be made regarding whether the IP address is associated with an ICH or not.

If the IP address is associated with corresponds to an ICH additional processing may be performed. Such additional processing may measure the ICH s exposure to content from a specific content owner. Alternatively a data store may be created based on the device activity from the ICH. The data store may be used to store information regarding interests activity and actions from the device. Based on the data store additional content e.g. advertising or other content may be dynamically selected and or delivered to the device.

This concludes the description of the preferred embodiment of the invention. The following describes some alternative embodiments for accomplishing the present invention. For example any type of computer such as a mainframe minicomputer or personal computer or computer configuration such as a timesharing mainframe local area network or standalone personal computer could be used with the present invention.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

