---

title: Active positioning airbag assembly and associated systems and methods
abstract: Airbag assemblies and associated systems and methods for use in aircraft and other vehicles are described herein that can provide crash protection for occupants seated in an upright position while not injuring or striking occupants in the brace position. An airbag system configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology can include an airbag configured to deploy through an opening of a housing during a crash event. The housing can be affixed to a seat or other interior portion (e.g., a fixed portion) of an aircraft forward of a passenger seat. The airbag can initially deploy in a direction away from an occupant in the seat and then move into position between a potential strike hazard and the occupant such that the airbag system can be used to protect occupants seated in an upright position while not injuring occupants in the brace position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09352839&OS=09352839&RS=09352839
owner: AmSafe, Inc.
number: 09352839
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141002
---
The present technology relates generally to airbag safety systems and more specifically to airbag assemblies for aircraft and associated systems and methods.

Various types of seat belt and airbag systems have been used to protect passengers in automobiles aircraft and other vehicles. In automobiles for example airbags typically deploy from the steering column dashboard side panel and or other fixed locations. During a rapid deceleration event e.g. a collision a sensor detects the event and transmits a corresponding signal to an initiation device e.g. a pyrotechnic device on an airbag inflator. This causes the inflator to release compressed gas into the airbag thereby rapidly inflating the airbag.

Seats in commercial aircraft can be configured in a variety of layouts that provide different spacing between succeeding rows. As a result airbags have been developed that deploy from seat belts to accommodate occupants in aircraft and other vehicles. In commercial and other aircraft when an airbag deploys in front of an occupant in a partially upright or fully upright seated position during a crash or deceleration event the airbag must position itself in front of a strike hazard before the occupant hits the strike hazard. However occupants utilizing a two point restraint for example may be seated in the brace position for precautionary reasons during or prior to a crash event. Accordingly airbag systems are needed to provide protection for occupants in generally upright seating positions while not injuring or impacting an occupant in the brace position during deployment. Generally an automotive steering wheel or passenger seat airbag that deploys directly in front of an occupant is not feasible for use with an occupant in the brace position because it may directly impact the occupant s head during deployment.

The present technology describes various embodiments of active positioning airbag assemblies for use in aircraft and other vehicles and associated systems and methods that can provide protection for occupants in seated e.g. upright seated positions as well as occupants in out of position e.g. brace orientations. In several embodiments of the present technology an airbag system e.g. a structure mounted airbag system in a commercial or other aircraft can include a housing carried on a seatback or other structure e.g. a ceiling wall divider or other monument positioned directly forward of or indirectly forward of e.g. offset to a side or at an angle a seated occupant or passenger. The housing can contain an airbag mounted behind a covered or uncovered opening. During a crash or rapid deceleration event the airbag can deploy through the opening in a manner that can avoid striking an occupant in an out of position seating orientation in a way that may cause injury. For example in some embodiments the airbag deploys up and away from the occupant and then comes to rest on or behind the occupant s head. However the airbag is also designed to deploy up and away from the occupant and then move into position in front of the occupant quickly enough to protect the occupant from a strike hazard when the occupant is seated in an upright position.

As used herein the term forward of in relation to a position in an aircraft refers to a location in front of the position relative to a longitudinal axis extending between the front and rear of the aircraft. Therefore in an aircraft forward of a particular location is defined as being positioned closer to the front nose and or cockpit of the aircraft than the location.

In some embodiments an airbag as disclosed herein can be automatically deployed using a crash sensor thus not requiring passenger or flight attendant actuation deactivation monitoring and or supervision prior to take off. In some embodiments the airbag is designed to automatically deflate within seconds of deployment to not impede passenger egress e.g. egress out of a seat row into the aisle or through the seat row to the exit off the aircraft after the crash event. Deployment of the airbag will not injure occupants seated in an out of position orientation e.g. a brace position and can provide protection for occupants in a normal or nominal e.g. an upright seated position. For example the airbag can initially deploy upward and rearward and then position itself e.g. actively position itself between a seated occupant and strike hazard in as little as 20 40 milliseconds. In certain embodiments the airbag can absorb the impact from an occupant s head and mitigate potential injury without the supplemental help of a shoulder harness e.g. the airbag can be used with a two point restraint or seat belt . Use of the airbag with standard two point seat belts can also improve cosmetics and comfort and or require less frequent maintenance than existing airbag systems.

Airbag systems configured in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can be concealed in a housing behind a module cover within a seat or a surrounding or adjacent structure e.g. a monument to improve cosmetics and aesthetics of the aircraft cabin and or to conceal the airbag system such that it is not readily visible to occupants. Additionally the airbag can be sized to protect the full size range of occupants that may need strike hazard protection in an aircraft. Further the airbag and or associated inflator can be sized e.g. of such a small size to enhance or improve ease of installing the airbag system and or to reduce weight. The airbag can have different configurations or shapes depending on the space or room between seats or rows of seats to improve impact protection. As used herein the terms structure mounted and structure mountable can refer to airbag assemblies that are or can be mounted to e.g. a wall divider seatback or a fixed piece of furniture or other interior aircraft structure or monument rather than to e.g. a seat belt.

Certain details are set forth in the following description and in to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present technology. For example several embodiments of structure mounted airbag systems are described below in the context of commercial or other aircraft with forward facing seats. However the airbag systems and aspects thereof disclosed herein may be used in a wide variety of other vehicles including other aircraft e.g. private commercial and military aircraft ground vehicles e.g. automobiles trucks buses trains and motor homes watercraft etc. Other details describing well known structures and systems often associated with airbags circuitry e.g. for deploying the airbag or sensing a crash event restraint systems etc. have not been set forth below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the various embodiments of the present technology.

Many of the details dimensions angles and other features shown in are merely illustrative of particular embodiments of the present technology. Accordingly other embodiments can include other details dimensions angles and features without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that further embodiments of the structure mounted airbag systems can be practiced without several of the details described below.

In the Figures identical reference numbers identify identical or at least generally similar elements. To facilitate the discussion of any particular element the most significant digit or digits of any reference number refers to the Figure in which that element is first introduced. For example element is first introduced and discussed with reference to .

In certain embodiments the use of a two point seat belt e.g. a lap belt allows a seated occupant to move from an upright position as identified by reference number to a brace position as shown by the broken lines in and identified by reference number . For example in the upright position the occupant can be seated against the back portion e.g. with the occupant s back and head extending at about 90 degrees relative to his legs . In the brace position the occupant can be spaced apart from the back portion e.g. with the occupant s back and head angled forward relative to the back portion and his legs . Unlike a three point restraint with a shoulder harness the two point seat belt generally does not prevent or slow acceleration of the occupant s head toward a potential strike hazard e.g. a seat wall divider or other monument positioned forward of the seated occupant . Further as illustrated in in the brace position the occupant s head may be positioned directly in back of adjacent to or even against the strike hazard .

As described in greater detail below the airbag system includes an airbag assembly having an airbag that can be stored e.g. folded rolled and or stowed in a housing and deployed through an opening in the housing . In the airbag is mounted to an L shaped mounting bracket and stored within a cavity of the housing as illustrated by broken lines in . The mounting bracket can be fixedly attached or secured to the housing and or an upper portion of the seatback or other mounting structure e.g. a wall ceiling divider or other monument positioned forward of the occupant .

As described in greater detail below during deployment the airbag can deploy in multiple directions. For example the airbag can initially deploy away from the occupant s head or and then the airbag can move downward as it inflates to its final position in back of the strike hazard such that the airbag is between the occupant s head and the strike hazard when the occupant is seated in the upright position A and or on the back of the occupant s head back and or neck when the occupant is seated in the brace position B . The airbag can lessen the crash impact experienced by the seat occupant e.g. against the strike hazard if the occupant was seated in the upright position A. The airbag can settle harmlessly on the back of the occupant s head if the occupant was seated in the brace position B.

In one aspect of the illustrated embodiment the housing is a separate or independent structural assembly that can be fixedly attached to or positioned on and or within the seatback or other mounting structure e.g. a wall ceiling divider or other monument positioned forward of the seated occupant and the seat . For example as illustrated in the housing can be positioned on the upper back portion of the seat . The housing and or back portion can hide or conceal the airbag from view of the occupant and provide an aesthetically pleasing seating environment. Concealing the airbag in this manner can also prevent passengers from accessing the airbag assembly and or associated components within the housing and causing inadvertent airbag deployment and or unnecessary wear and tear.

In the illustrated embodiments the housing can include a cover or door over the opening . Example covers or doors are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 523 220 entitled STRUCTURE MOUNTED AIRBAG ASSEMBLIES AND ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. The cover or door can be positioned across the opening and at least substantially conceal the cavity formed within the housing from view before airbag deployment. The door can be attached to the housing using one or more releasable fasteners and or hinges that enable the door to swing or otherwise move away from the opening under the force of the inflating airbag thereby allowing the airbag to deploy through the opening . The door for example can be secured over the opening with a plurality of screws that are configured to break under the force of airbag deployment. In other embodiments the door can be configured to automatically move e.g. rotate about a hinge away from the opening in response to a crash event rather than relying on the force of the airbag. The door for example can include electronics e.g. a sensor an actuator a controller a power source to automatically slide pivot and or otherwise move away from the opening in response to or in anticipation of airbag deployment. In lieu of a door a leather or other flexible material cover with a tear seam can be used to conceal the airbag and tear open during airbag deployment. The housing can be made from durable materials such as composites alloys e.g. aluminum alloys and or other suitable materials e.g. sheet metal steel etc. . In other embodiments the housing can be attached to or integrally formed with a portion of the aircraft e.g. a seat divider wall ceiling or other interior structure or monument .

When inflated gas can at least partially initially fill an upper portion of the airbag prior to a lower portion which pushes the airbag in an upward direction away from the housing and seat . As illustrated in after the upper portion is initially deployed inflated e.g. in an upward direction A the lower portion unfolds e.g. moves unfurls and or unrolls upwardly. Referring next to as the airbag continues to inflate it unfolds or unfurls in the longitudinal or horizontal direction generally towards seat A and occupant e.g. as indicated by arrow B positioned rearward of seat

After the airbag has unfolded out of the housing it rapidly begins to pressurize and inflate to reach a fully inflated configuration e.g. an inverted L shaped configuration . Referring to as the airbag reaches its fully inflated configuration the airbag actively positions itself in a downward position e.g. as indicated by arrow C between the strike hazard e.g. the back of seat wall divider or other monument and the occupant . If the occupant is seated in the upright position A the airbag moves itself between the strike hazard and the occupant s head A as illustrated in to mitigate or reduce any potential injury to the occupant from striking the hazard . The airbag s initial main deployment force is in a direction e.g. upward away from the occupant . Only after the main deployment of the airbag has occurred and as the airbag reaches operating pressure does the airbag move into position in back of the strike hazard .

As illustrated in the airbag deploys upwards and positions itself in back of the strike hazard during a crash or deceleration event before the upright occupant moves forward enough to block the airbag from reaching its final intended position or strike the hazard . In certain embodiments the airbag can reach its final position e.g. in back of the strike hazard in less than or equal to about 60 milliseconds or less than or equal to about 50 milliseconds or less than or equal to about 40 milliseconds or less than or equal to about 30 milliseconds or less than or equal to about 20 milliseconds or less than or equal to about 10 milliseconds and or any value therebetween.

In the illustrated embodiments the airbag includes a generally inverted L shaped cross sectional configuration. In other embodiments the airbag can have other suitable configurations to accommodate various configurations of the location of the airbag system shapes of the reaction surfaces and or spacing between seats. The airbag is sized and shaped to accommodate a wide range of occupant sizes and positions. The airbag can include one or more vents as described below in connection with for releasing gas from within the airbag after deployment. The airbag can meet all aviation regulatory requirement including for lap held children children in child restraint devices brace positions and or out of position occupants.

When inflated gas can at least partially initially fill the upper portion of the airbag prior to the lower portion which pushes the airbag in an upward direction away from the housing and seat . As illustrated in after the upper portion is deploys the lower portion initially unfolds e.g. moves unfurls and or unrolls generally upwardly. Referring next to the airbag then deploys in the longitudinal or horizontal rearward direction generally towards the seat and the occupant as indicated by arrow B.

After the airbag has unfolded out of the housing it rapidly begins to pressurize and inflate to reach a fully inflated configuration e.g. an inverted L shaped configuration . Referring to as the airbag continues to inflate it actively moves e.g. unfolds unfurls and or unrolls in a generally downward direction as indicated by arrow C. When the occupant is in the brace position B however the occupant prevents the airbag from moving into the same position in back of the strike hazard illustrated in . Instead if the occupant is in the brace position the airbag will settle on or about the back of the occupant s head B back and or neck when fully inflated. Because the airbag initially deploys upwardly and then in a longitudinal direction prior to moving downwardly the airbag can be used with occupants seated in brace positions. Such movement or deployment of the airbag prevents the airbag from impacting an occupant seated in the brace position

The vertically extending plate can provide a reaction surface for the airbag during initial deployment. The reaction surface shape of the airbag and manner in which it is folded and stowed as illustrated and described in allow the airbag to initially deploy upward then in a longitudinal direction and then in a downward direction as the airbag inflates and pressurizes to assume its fully inflated configuration. The airbag assembly can be rolled e.g. folded to be stored within the bracket in a specific configuration as described in . In some embodiments the airbag is positioned within the cavity of the housing in alignment with the opening such that the airbag can initially deploy through the opening in an upward direction as it inflates. The vertically extending plate and or base plate can include one or more apertures or holes to reduce weight of the mounting bracket and or allow a cable from an electronic module assembly to pass through for connection to an inflator carried within the airbag as described below and illustrated in .

The airbag can include one or more internal tethers . The tethers can be made out of airbag material or other suitable material and can be secured e.g. sewn or with other suitable fasteners to opposing interior portions of the airbag . The tethers can be used to maintain the shape or configuration of the airbag e.g. in an inverted L shaped configuration as it inflates and pressurizes. The tethers can have an I shaped or other suitable configuration.

In various embodiments the airbag can include one or more vents that open when the pressure within the airbag reaches a predetermined threshold. The vent for example can be a discrete seam e.g. aperture hole channel on the airbag that is sewn shut and tears open at a designated pressure e.g. when the occupant contacts the airbag and or when the airbag is fully inflated . This feature can limit the force with which the seated occupant impacts the airbag and reduces the rebound of the occupant from the airbag . The vent can also allow the airbag to deflate rapidly e.g. within seconds after inflation so it does not impede occupant egress from the seat in an emergency situation e.g. after a crash or deceleration event .

The airbag assembly can further include the airbag inflator carried inside the airbag and the electronics module assembly shown schematically in operably coupled to the inflator . The electronics module assembly can be positioned in the housing or other remote position as described below. The inflator can include a container of compressed gas e.g. air helium and argon mixture and a pyrotechnic device e.g. a squib connector that can be activated by a signal sent by the electronics module assembly in response to a crash event. The signal initiates the squib which causes the container to release the expanding gas into the airbag. In other embodiments the inflator can include other suitable initiation and or inflation devices e.g. gas generating inflators well known in the art.

In some embodiments an internal mounting plate can be used to secure the airbag to the mounting bracket and or provide a stabilizing base for the inflator . Example internal and external mounting plates are described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 523 220 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. U shaped bolts or other suitable fasteners e.g. straps can be used to secure the inflator airbag fabric tube mounting plate and or mounting bracket together. In some embodiments the u shaped bolts can also extend through the bracket into a housing seat and or other mounting structure to secure the bracket accordingly. As illustrated in the mounting plate can be positioned within a pocket of airbag fabric formed below and outside a main interior volume of the airbag where air or other gas is introduced to inflate the airbag .

In some embodiments the inflator can be spaced apart from the airbag assembly e.g. remotely located away from the airbag assembly and or housing and fluidly coupled thereto using a gas delivery hose and or other suitable fluid passageway or conduit. The gas delivery hose can include a first end fitting in fluid communication with the interior of the airbag and a second end fitting not shown e.g. an inflator connector as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 439 398 entitled INFLATOR CONNECTORS FOR INFLATABLE PERSONAL RESTRAINTS AND ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety threadably or otherwise engaged with an outlet of the inflator .

Referring to the electronics module assembly includes a processor that receives electrical power from a power source e.g. one or more lithium batteries a deployment circuit that initiates the inflator and at least one crash sensor that detects rapid decelerations and or other crash events. The crash sensor for example can include a spring mass damper type sensor with an inertial switch calibrated for the vehicle s operating environments that initiates airbag deployment upon a predetermined deceleration level. In other embodiments the crash sensor can include other suitable types of sensors known in the art. Optionally the electronics module assembly can also include one or more magnetic field sensors that detect the presence of an external magnetic field e.g. from a speaker and communicate with the processor to deactivate the crash sensor and prevent inadvertent deployment of the airbag assembly . The magnetic field sensor can include for example the circuitry disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 535 115 entitled AIRBAG HAVING EXCESSIVE EXTERNAL MAGNETIC FIELD PROTECTION CIRCUITRY which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments some of the components of the electronics module assembly may be omitted. In certain embodiments for example the electronics module assembly can include only the power source and the crash sensor which completes a circuit to activate the inflator during a crash event. The components of the electronics module assembly can be housed in a protective cover e.g. a machined or injection molded plastic box that can reduce the likelihood of damaging the electronics module assembly and a magnetic shield that can prevent the electronics module assembly from inadvertently deploying the airbag assembly . In other embodiments the electronics module assembly can be stored in the housing disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 608 959 entitled ELECTRONICS MODULE ASSEMBLY FOR INFLATABLE PERSONAL RESTRAINT SYSTEM AND ASSOCIATED METHODS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and or other suitable electronics housings known in the art. In further embodiments the electronics module assembly can include diagnostic testing features such as those described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 174 659 entitled INFLATABLE PERSONAL RESTRAINT SYSTEMS and U.S. Pat. No. 8 818 759 entitled COMPUTER SYSTEM FOR REMOTE TESTING OF INFLATABLE PERSONAL RESTRAINT SYSTEMS which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

In some embodiments the electronics module assembly can positioned in a remote location from the airbag assembly and coupled to the inflator via suitable electrical connectors for example a cable as described below. The electronics module assembly can be positioned inside a seat or other mounting structure in the aircraft. When mounted remotely the electronics module assembly can be positioned to properly transmit the crash signal and reduce vibration effects.

During a crash event above a predetermined threshold the crash sensor can close one or more switches thereby causing the processor to send a corresponding signal to the deployment circuit . Upon receiving a signal from the processor the deployment circuit can apply a sufficient voltage to an igniter e.g. a squib that causes the inflator to discharge its compressed gas into the airbag . The expansion of the compressed gas inflates the airbag and causes it to deploy through the opening in the housing not shown in . The door or cover if provided with one moves away from the opening e.g. due to the force applied by the inflating airbag allowing the airbag to initially expand upward and away from the occupant in the corresponding rear seat then in a longitudinal or horizontal direction and then finally moving in a downward direction.

As illustrated in the airbag has a generally inverted L shaped cross sectional configuration. When fully deployed the airbag includes a forward facing surface and a rearward facing surface relative to the longitudinal axis of the aircraft. The rearward facing surface includes a first generally planar surface portion that extends at or about 90 degrees relative to an upward facing generally planar second surface portion . The first surface portion extends generally parallel to a vertical axis extending between a top and bottom of the aircraft and the second surface portion extends generally perpendicular to the vertical axis . A third curved surface portion extends between the first and second surface portions .

The forward facing surface includes a fourth generally planar surface portion that extends generally parallel to the first surface portion and at or about 90 degrees relative to a downward facing generally planar fifth surface portion . The fourth surface portion is positioned forward of the first surface portion . A sixth curved surface portion extends between the fourth and fifth surface portions . The second surface portion is oriented generally upward e.g. towards an aircraft ceiling and the first surface portion is oriented generally rearward e.g. towards the rear of the aircraft and a seated occupant . The fifth surface portion extends generally parallel to the second surface portion but faces downward.

A seventh curved portion of the airbag located forward of both the first and fourth surface portions extends between the second and fifth surface portions . The first surface portion and or fourth surface portion can be folded or rolled along a seam such that the first third fourth and or sixth surface portions extend generally parallel to each other and or are stacked rolled or layered on each other when the airbag is stowed folded and or not inflated as described below with reference to . Generally the airbag can be used with economy class seats in a commercial or other aircraft e.g. where rows of seats and adjacent seats are positioned relatively close together relative to business class seats seats are narrower seats can only minimally recline and or minimal electronics or other objects are positioned in front of a seated occupant .

As illustrated in the airbag includes a slightly different generally inverted L shaped cross sectional configuration from the airbag . When fully deployed the airbag includes a forward facing surface and a rearward facing surface relative to the longitudinal axis . However the rearward facing surface includes a first generally planar surface portion that extends at or about a non 90 degree angle relative to a second generally planar upward facing surface portion resulting in a sloped first planar surface portion which can increase the size of the airbag relative to the airbag . A third surface portion e.g. curved extends between the first and second surface portions . The forward facing surface includes fourth and fifth generally planar surface portions that extend at or about 90 degrees relative to each other.

Generally the airbag can be used with business class seats in a commercial or other aircraft e.g. where rows of seats and adjacent seats are positioned farther apart than in economy class less seats are adjacent to each other e.g. two seats versus three seats in a row seats are wider seats can fully recline or more so than in economy class and or more electronics or other objects are positioned in front of a seated occupant . As the pitch or distance between rows of seats or distance between a seat and monument positioned forward of the seat increases a larger airbag may be required to cushion the impact of an occupant during a crash or deceleration event. Airbags with configurations such as airbag may be required in these contexts rather than configurations such as airbag

As shown in when fully deployed and inflated the airbag has a generally inverted L shaped configuration having a similar or identical configuration as the airbag of . For example the airbag includes a forward facing surface and a rearward facing surface relative to the longitudinal axis of the aircraft. The rearward facing surface includes a first generally planar surface portion that extends at or about 90 degrees relative to an upward facing generally planar second surface portion . The airbag includes an upper portion and a lower portion . Referring next to the first planar surface portion can be folded inward and upward forming a curved ledge projection or overhang portion extending forward from a remaining vertically extending portion of the first planar surface portion . An inverted U shaped curved portion adjacent the upper portion extends between the portions and .

As illustrated in beginning with a bottom end of lower portion of the airbag the airbag can be rolled multiple times. When the rolled airbag reaches the overhang portion the airbag can be rolled over the overhang portion as illustrated in . The airbag can be rolled until it reaches the configuration shown in . In the fully rolled or stowed configuration the forward facing surface is oriented rearward and upward when the airbag is stored in position in the housing . The surface is positioned above the upper portion of the airbag . When fully rolled and stored in position the door can be closed to conceal the airbag .

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration but that modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the various embodiments of the present technology. The airbag systems illustrated in can include for example additional airbags assemblies and or inflators operably coupled to the electronics module assembly for use with the additional aircraft seats e.g. within the same row as the seat or another row of forward facing seats . In some embodiments the airbag systems or components thereof can be used with seats that are not forward facing e.g. angled or side facing seats . In various other embodiments the housing may be omitted and the airbag assembly can be mounted directly to a portion of the aircraft cabin e.g. the seat wall etc. . In some embodiments while airbags with generally L shaped configurations are illustrated different suitable shapes can be used. Specific elements of any of the foregoing embodiments can also be combined or substituted for elements in other embodiments. Moreover the airbag systems described above can be incorporated in non aircraft systems such as land vehicle systems watercraft etc. Furthermore while advantages associated with certain embodiments of the present technology have been described in the context of these embodiments other embodiments may also exhibit such advantages and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages to fall within the scope of the technology. Accordingly the present technology is not limited except as by the appended claims.

