---

title: Method and apparatus for fabrication of controlled chirp gratings
abstract: In some aspects of the present application, an apparatus for producing an interference pattern on a photosensitive portion formed on a surface of a sample is disclosed. The apparatus can include an optical system for providing interference between two coherent spherical wavefronts impinging on a thin-film photosensitive material formed on a surface of a sample, wherein a plane of the surface normal of the sample is arranged at an angle with respect to a plane defined by center propagation vectors of the two coherent spherical wavefronts; and one or more actuating elements operable to actuate one or more optical elements in the optical system, the sample, or both the one or more optical elements and the sample in one or more degrees of freedom to control a relative magnitude of a longitudinal and a transverse chirp of the interference pattern.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09431789&OS=09431789&RS=09431789
owner: STC.UNM
number: 09431789
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141113
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 843 332 filed on Mar. 15 2013 now allowed which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 642 403 filed on May 3 2012 the disclosures of both are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. DTRA 01 03 D 0009 task order 26 awarded by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency and Grant No. AFOSR FA9550 10 0517 awarded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application is directed to systems and methods for fabricating a chirped grating for various optical elements. A specific example is a tunable distributed feedback DFB laser wherein the tuning is affected by optically pumping a strip across different regions of the chirped grating.

Many of the one dimensional gratings used in optics have a more or less constant pitch across the two dimensional surface area of the grating. This is true for example for the diffraction gratings used for in spectrometers and monochromators and for the gratings used in most distributed feedback DFB and distributed Bragg reflector DBR laser structures. For the spectroscopic application the angular dependence of the scattering from the grating is described by the familiar grating equation sin sin i d where is the optical wavelength d is the nominally constant period of the grating teeth i 0 1 2 . . . is an integer and is the incident scattered angle measured from the normal to the grating. Here it is assumed that the angles of incidence and scattering are in a plane perpendicular to the grating lines. For the laser application the Bragg condition nd nd 2 where n n is the modal refractive index of the laser structure under medium 1 2 and d d is the thickness of medium 1 2 determines the lasing wavelength.

For the case of DFB and DBR lasers the grating period is usually nominally constant along the lasing direction across the entire laser cavity for DFB just at the ends for DBR . There have been reports of longitudinal chirps to improve the resistance of the laser to hole burning stabilities at high operating powers P. Zhou and G. S. Lee Phaseshifted distributed feedback laser with linearly chirped grating for narrow linewidth and highpower operation Appl. Phys. Lett. 58 331 333 1991 which is herein incorporated by reference.

A large tunable range for a chirped grating on a large area optically pumped semiconductor laser structure has been recently demonstrated where the pump stripe was shifted relative to the chirped grating to provide the tuning mechanism. This was primarily a transverse chirp e.g. the grating lines are splayed so that the spacing between adjacent grating lines changes as the grating is sampled along the lines. For longitudinal chirp the spacing varies across a single line. The distinction between longitudinal and transverse chirp is illustrated schematically as prior art in .

Therefore a purpose of the current invention is to provide a method and apparatus for fabrication of a chirped grating wherein the longitudinal and transverse chirps can be independently controlled at least over some range. In particular the goal is to reduce the longitudinal chirp for a fixed transverse chirp.

In implementations an apparatus for producing an interference pattern on a photosensitive portion formed on a surface of a sample is disclosed. The apparatus can comprise an optical system for providing interference between two coherent spherical wavefronts impinging on a thin film photosensitive material formed on a surface of a sample wherein a plane of the surface normal of the sample is arranged at an angle with respect to a plane defined by center propagation vectors of the two coherent spherical wavefronts and one or more actuating elements operable to actuate one or more optical elements in the optical system the sample or both the one or more optical elements and the sample in one or more degrees of freedom to control a relative magnitude of a longitudinal and a transverse chirp of the interference pattern.

In implementations the optical system can comprise a laser with an output beam characterized by both a longitudinal and a transverse coherence one or more optical elements operable to expand and approximately collimate the output beam of the laser wherein a first portion of the output beam of the laser that has been expanded and collimated is incident on a first optical element of the one or more optical elements and is redirected therefrom as a first plane wave to a second optical element of the one or more optical elements at an first angle of incidence wherein a second portion of the output beam of the laser that has been expanded and collimated is incident on the second optical element of the one or more optical elements as a second plane wave at a second angle of incidence wherein the second optical element of the one or more optical elements is the final optical element and is operable to convert the first and the second plane waves into two spherical waves wherein a center portion of each spherical wave is propagating in a same direction as the first and the second plane waves wherein the two spherical waves interfere coherently to expose a pattern in the thin film photosensitive material on the surface of the sample wherein the surface normal of the sample is arranged at an angle with respect to a plane defined by the center propagation vectors of the two coherent spherical wavefronts wherein the interference pattern that has been exposed is characterized by a longitudinal and a transverse chirp and wherein the relative magnitudes of the longitudinal and transverse chirp can be controlled by adjusting the positions and tilts of the one or more optical elements and the sample.

In implementations the second optical element can comprise a lens comprising a spherical lens or a cylindrical lens.

In implementations the apparatus can further comprise a supporting structure operable to support the first optical element the second optical element and the sample.

In implementations the supporting structure can comprise one or more actuating elements to adjust the first optical element the second optical element and the sample in one or more degrees of freedom.

In implementations the apparatus can further comprise a filter arranged between the second optical element and the sample. The filter can comprises a graded intensity filter operable to compensate for changes in intensity of the output beam produced by the laser and the one or more optical elements.

In implementations a method of imaging an interference pattern on a photosensitive portion formed on a surface of a sample is disclosed. The method can comprise arranging an optical system for providing interference between two coherent spherical wavefronts impinging on a thin film photosensitive material formed on a surface of a sample wherein a normal to a plane of the surface of the sample is arranged at an angle with respect to a plane defined by center propagation vectors of the two coherent spherical wavefronts and controlling one or more actuating elements to actuate one or more optical elements in the optical system the sample or both the one or more optical elements and the sample in one or more degrees of freedom to control a relative magnitude of a longitudinal and a transverse chirp of the interference pattern.

In implementations the arranging the optical system can comprise providing a laser with an output beam characterized by both a longitudinal and a transverse coherence expanding and collimating the output beam of the laser using one or more optical elements wherein a first portion of the output beam of the laser that has been expanded and collimated is incident on a first optical element of the one or more optical elements and is redirected therefrom as a first plane wave to a second optical element of the one or more optical elements at an first angle of incidence wherein a second portion of the output beam of the laser that has been expanded and collimated is incident on the second optical element of the one or more optical elements as a second plane wave at a second angle of incidence wherein the second optical element of the one or more optical elements is the final optical element and is operable to convert the first and the second plane waves into two spherical waves wherein a center portion of each spherical wave is propagating in a same direction as the first and the second plane waves wherein the two spherical waves interfere coherently to expose a pattern in the thin film photosensitive material on the surface of the sample wherein the surface normal of the sample is arranged at an angle with respect to a plane defined by center propagation vectors of the two coherent spherical wavefronts wherein the interference pattern that has been exposed is characterized by a longitudinal and a transverse chirp and wherein the relative magnitudes of the longitudinal and transverse chirp can be controlled by adjusting positions and tilts of the one or more optical elements and the sample.

In implementations the method can further comprise providing a supporting structure to support the first optical element the second optical element and the sample.

In implementations the method further comprise providing a filter between the second optical element and the sample wherein the filter comprises a graded intensity filter operable to compensate for changes in intensity of the output beam produced by the laser.

In implementations a device can be formed by the method wherein the device can comprise an optically pumped tunable mid IR laser based on type II InAS GaSb material.

In implementations a tunable laser device is disclosed. The device can comprise a chirped distributed feedback DFB grating disposed on an optically pumped laser structure wherein the chirped DFB comprises a grating pitch that varies across the structure and is characterized by both longitudinal and transverse chirp parameters and a pump laser disposed to provide a pump beam illumination in a sub area with respect to an area covered by the chirped DFB grating the position being changed to allow a continuous tuning of a lasing emission wavelength from the optically pumped laser structure.

In implementations the pump beam illumination can be arranged in a stripe geometry with the long axis of the stripe essentially perpendicular to the lines of the grating on the sample.

In implementations the grating lines of the chirped DFB grating can be arranged at a tilt to one or more edges of the optically pumped laser structure to reduce an impact of any Fabry Perot resonances on the lasing emission.

In implementations the chirped DFB grating can be formed by etching into a material of a clad layer of the optically pumped laser structure wherein the material comprises one or more of Ge GaSb AlGaSb AlAsSb AlGaAsSb InAlAsSb GaAlAsSb AlSb AlInSb AlSbAs or AlGaSbAs.

In implementations the chirped DFB grating can be formed by an interferometric lithography technique.

In implementations the device can further comprise a discrete set of DFB gratings that each DFB grating comprises a fixed grating period and the chirp is realized in different fixed grating periods.

In implementations the optically pumped laser structure can employ one or more type II quantum well active regions in the GaSb InAs or related material system such that the material optical gain is in the mid infrared spectral region. The related material systems can include systems where the InAs is replaced by InGaAs or other ternary compound and similarly the GaSb is replaced with ternary compound such as InGaSb.

In implementations an apparatus for producing an interference pattern on a photosensitive portion formed on a surface of a sample is disclosed. The apparatus can comprise a first optical element arranged to receive a first coherent portion of radiation from a radiation source and to convey the first portion of radiation to a second optical element the second optical element arranged to receive a second coherent portion of radiation from the radiation source and to receive the first portion of radiation conveyed by the first optical element wherein the first portion and the second portion are received as plane waves from the radiation source and wherein the second optical element is operable to convert the plane waves into spherical waves with contracting wavefronts towards a focal plane of the second optical element and the photosensitive portion formed on the surface of the sample arranged to receive the contracting wavefronts to be recorded as the interference pattern wherein the plane of the photosensitive portion is arranged at an angle with respect to optical axis of the second optical element.

In implementations the first optical element comprises a flat reflective surface and the second optical element comprises a spherical lens and or cylindrical lens for example a plano convex lens.

In implementations the apparatus can comprise a supporting structure operate to support the first optical element the second optical element or both the first and the second optical element. The supporting structure can comprise one or more actuating elements operable to move the supporting structure in one or more degrees of freedom.

In implementations the apparatus can comprise a sample supporting structure operable to support the sample. The sample supporting structure can comprise one or more actuating elements operable to move the sample supporting structure in one or more degrees of freedom.

In implementations the apparatus can comprise a filter arranged between the second optical element and the sample. The filter can comprise a graded intensity filter operable to compensate for changes in intensity of the radiation produced by the radiation source and the optical elements.

In implementations the interference pattern can be chirped in one or more directions and the relative transverse and longitudinal chirps are controllable over some ranges by adjusting the positions and tilts of the optical elements and the sample.

In implementations a method of imaging an interference pattern on a photosensitive portion formed on a surface of a sample is disclosed. The method can comprise arranging a first optical element to receive a first portion of radiation from a radiation source providing the first portion of radiation to a second optical element arranging the second optical element to receive a second portion of radiation from the radiation source receiving the first portion of radiation provided by the first optical element wherein the first portion and the second portion are received as nominal plane waves from the radiation source and wherein the second optical element is operable to convert the planes waves into spherical waves with contracting wavefronts propagating towards a focal plane of the second optical element and arranging the photosensitive portion formed on the surface of the sample to receive the contracting wavefronts to be recorded as the interface pattern wherein the normal to the photosensitive portion is arranged at an angle with respect to the optical axis of the second optical element.

In implementations the first optical element can comprise a flat reflective surface and the second optical element can comprise a spherical lens or a cylindrical lens for example a plano convex lens.

In implementations the method can comprise providing a supporting structure to support the first optical element the second optical element or both the first and the second optical element.

In implementations the method can comprise actuating the supporting structure using one or more actuating elements to move the supporting structure in one or more degrees of freedom.

In implementations the method can comprise providing a sample supporting structure operable to support the sample.

In implementations the method can comprise actuating the sample supporting structure using one or more actuating elements to move the sample supporting structure in one or more degrees of freedom.

In implementations the method can comprise providing a filter between the second optical element and the sample. The filter can comprise a graded intensity filter operable to compensate for changes in intensity of the radiation produced by the radiation source.

In implementations the method can comprise forming an optically pumped laser using the interference pattern formed on the sample as an active region for the laser.

In implementations the method can comprise adjusting the position of the sample relative to the second optical element to provided control of a longitudinal and a transverse chirp of the interference pattern over a two dimensional exposure area.

In implementations the radiation provided by the radiation source comprises a 355 nm 3harmonic from a Nd YAG laser.

In implementations a device is formed by the method wherein the device comprises an optically pumped tunable mid IR laser based on type II InAS GaSb material.

In implementations a tunable laser device is disclosed that comprises a chirped distributed feedback DFB grating disposed on an optically pumped laser structure wherein the chirped DFB comprises a grating pitch that varies across the structure and is characterized by both longitudinal and transverse parameters and a pump laser disposed to provide a pump beam illumination in a sub area with respect to an area covered by the chirped DFB grating the position being changed to allow a continuous tuning of a lasing emission wavelength from the optically pumped laser structure.

In implementations the chirped DFB grating provides a feedback essentially perpendicular to grating lines of the chirped DFB grating while the transverse chirp is principally arranged in a direction parallel to the grating lines of the chirped grating DFB grating.

In implementations the grating lines of the chirped DFB grating are arranged at a tilt to one or more edges of the optically pumped laser structure to reduce an impact of any Fabry Perot resonances on the lasing emission.

In implementations the chirped DFB grating provides a feedback essentially perpendicular to grating lines of the chirped DFB grating while a chirp is principally arranged in a direction perpendicular to the grating lines of the chirped DFB grating.

In implementations the chirped DFB grating further comprises a grating period adjusted to provide the feedback and to provide an output coupling normal to the plane of the chirped DFB grating.

In implementations the pump beam is provided from a top side of the optically pumped laser structure that is through the chirped DFB grating or from a bottom side of the optically pumped laser structure that is opposite the chirped DFB grating.

In implementations the chirped DFB grating is formed by etching into a material of a clad layer of the optically pumped laser structure wherein the material comprises one or more of GaSb AlGaSb AlAsSb AlGaAsSb InAlAsSb GaAlAsSb AlSb AlInSb AlSbAs or AlGaSbAs.

In implementations the device further comprising a discrete set of DFB gratings that each DFB grating comprises a fixed grating period and the chirp is realized in different fixed grating periods.

In implementations the optically pumped laser structure employs one or more type II quantum well active regions such that the material optical gain is in the mid infrared spectral region.

Reference will now be made in detail to various exemplary embodiments of the present application examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Based on laser experimental results it has been shown that the chirp has a strong effect on the lasing behavior. From an applications standpoint the largest chirp obtainable is desired so that the largest possible tuning range on a single laser chip can be achieved. On the other hand as the chirp increases the local position dependent reflection parameters of the grating also shift and there can be a loss of reflectance as the local reflection band is shifted away from the lasing wavelength this is a consequence of the longitudinal chirp of the grating. In addition the tilt of the grating facets across the laser stripe associated with the transverse chirp can result in an additional loss. Based on the experimental lasing results and on the modeling the first effect e.g. the shift of the local reflection band with position is the dominant limitation using a grating produced by the prior art optical configuration as shown in .

The transmission and reflection properties of gratings with a parabolic chirp which approximates the actual device chirp are such that increasing chirp decreases the stopband depth increases the depth of adjacent lobes and alters the reflected phase. The general behavior as the chirp is increased is shown in which shows reflectance amplitude and phase as the grating chirp is increased. A parabolic variation in the grating pitch is assumed. In implementations the IL process in accordance with the prior art teachings can produce a grating on the sample that is chirped in both the transverse and the longitudinal directions. The transverse chirp grating period varies in the direction of the grating lines provides for wavelength tuning. However the longitudinal chirp grating period varies in the direction perpendicular to the grating lines this is also the laser cavity direction impacts the width of the pump strip that can contribute to the lasing. The longitudinal chirp can lead to mode jumps as the laser strip is moved along the transverse direction and limits the continuous tuning range. It is therefore a goal of the present invention to develop IL configurations wherein the longitudinal chirp is minimized for a fixed transverse chirp.

In implementations reduction of the longitudinal device chirp while preserving lateral chirp can be achieved by using an interference lithography IL arrangement with a cylindrical and or spherical lens a tilted sample relative to the back surface of the lens tilt angle indicated by in where the tilted sample is positioned at a distance from the optical axis of the lens. This arrangement can produce a device that has a target tuning range while providing continuous tuning without mode hops. In implementations the photoresist coated portion of the sample can be tilted with respect to the back surface of the lens. For example the sample can be tilted by about 45 by rotating around the optic axis and rotated counterclockwise by about 6 azimuthally around a normal for the sample as shown in below. Additionally the sample can be positioned relative to the OA of the lens to optimize the chirp pattern for specific requirements.

As depicted in the IL arrangement is shown with the aid of a first three dimensional coordinate system x y z tied to the lens and a second coordinate system x y z tied to the sample and tilted about the y y axis where the optical axis OA of optical element is along the z axis direction. A coherent radiation source not shown is arranged to produce radiation in the form of a plane or nearly plane wave along the z axis direction toward optical element and optical element . By way of a non limiting example optical element can comprise a flat plane mirror having a reflective surface and optical element can comprise a plano convex lens. For the discussion that follows optical element will be referred to as a mirror and optical element will be referred to as a lens. However this labeling is not meant to limit the structure or composition of these elements. Other suitable individual or combination of optical components can be used for the optical elements and as is known in the art.

Mirror and lens can be held in position using a common support structure e.g. rotation stage shown in . Alternatively separate support structures can be used. Support structure can be fixed or allow for movement of the mirror and lens individually or collectively by including one or more actuators that allow the mirror and lens to be moveable in one or more degrees of freedom. The one or more actuators can be controlled either manually or using a computer controlled system not shown . As shown in mirror and lens are operable to be moveable about the x axis y axis or both the x and y axes. One or more alignment systems can also be coupled to the support structure to ensure proper alignment of the various components of arrangement .

In implementations lens can be arranged with respect to mirror in such a manner that a plane along an entrance face of lens along the y axis as shown in is perpendicular to a plane along the reflecting surface of mirror along the z axis . Mirror and lens are position such that radiation from the radiation source is divided evenly such that a portion of the radiation is provided to mirror and another portion of radiation is provided to lens . Radiation reflected by reflecting surface of mirror is then directed onto and through lens . Lens receives both portions of radiation and including the first portion received indirectly from the radiation source by way of reflecting surface of the mirror and the second portion received directly from the radiation source.

Substrate or sample is shown in in relation to the second reference system x y z . Sample is positioned on the back side away from the entrance face of the lens . A top surface of sample can be pre coated with a photosensitive resist or photoresist layer not shown and be arranged to receive the radiation from optical element . The photoresist layer is arranged away from the focal plane of the lens so that the radiation impinges upon an area of the sample. Sample can be supported by a support structure not shown that can be fixed or moveable in one or more degrees of freedom using one or more control or actuating elements not shown . In the implementation where the sample is moveable the support structure may be controlled either manually or by a computer controlled system. As shown in the sample can be rotated about the axis the y axis or both the z and y axes. For example the sample can be rotated by about 6 about the zx axis and about 45 about the y axis. The sample can be positioned and or rotated by other suitable amounts depending on the particular type and or arrangement of the radiation source and the number and type of optical components employed in arrangement in order to properly produce an image onto the photoresist of the sample . In particular the rotation about the z axis is chosen so that the grating lines and the laser stripe perpendicular to the grating lines are tilted relative to the cleaved edges of the sample to avoid Fabry Perot cavity effects. The rotation about the y axis and the placement of the sample relative to the optical centerline are the means by which the longitudinal and transverse chirps are adjusted for a given lens configuration. In the tilt about the y y axis is the motion that reduces the longitudinal chirp tilt about the z axis eliminates the Fabry Perot feedback from the cleaved facets.

In arrangement with the wafer being tilted and a distance between lens and sample that varies for different parts of the sample surface the radiation received by the photoresist on the sample has a non uniform intensity distribution across the sample. This can result in a variation of the line space ratio along the transverse chirp and can impact the DFB coupling constant and hence the laser performance. The non uniform intensity can cause the line space ratio of the grating pattern to vary. To compensate this intensity difference filter can be positioned between lens and sample and parallel to sample . Filter can include one or more filters and can include for example a graded intensity filter that can make the optical intensity uniform across the whole area of sample. Filter can be supported by a mounting device not shown can provide for actuation of filter . In the implementation that filter is moveable one or more controllers or actuators can be coupled to the mounting device allowing filter to be movable in one or more degrees of freedom for example moveable about the z axis the y axis or both the z and the y axes.

Once the exposure is done the rest of the processing to transfer the pattern into the wafer is a standard develop etch process. Hard mask layers can be used to allow for deeper gratings.

Using the arrangements and techniques discussed above a wide range of chirped grating devices can be produced with unique optical functionality. In particular the inventors have demonstrated production of a high power 1 W optically pumped tunable mid IR laser 3 5 m based on type II InAs GaSb active regions. This broad tuning is based on an optically addressed chirped grating fabricated by interferometric lithography IL over the large area device 2.5 4 mm . A quasi continuous single longitudinal mode operation spaced by Fabry Perot steps of a 2.5 mm cavity tuning range of 65 nm was demonstrated around 3.6 m. Continuous tuning was achieved across a 15 nm range which was limited by the longitudinal chirp of the IL grating. Devices with a lower longitudinal chirp grating produced using the teachings consistent with aspects of the present disclosure have been demonstrated with 80 nm of continuous tuning for the same size device. This device was fabricated with a chirped grating using the IL arrangement shown in using a 355 nm 3rd harmonic of a Nd YAG laser a plano convex lens with focal length of 51.5 mm. The plano conves lens was used to convert the approximately planar wave fronts of the two interfering beams to spherical wave fronts converging to two foci behind the photoresist coated die. The sample was tilted 45 around the axis x as shown in . The grating period as function of the position on the die is 

After IL patterning of the photoresist the pattern is transferred into the GaSb top clad of the epitaxial semiconductor waveguide structure using ICP to a depth of 500 nm as shown in . Then die is thinned down to about 150 m. A 4 2.5 mmdevice as shown in is cleaved from the center of the die. The lateral dimension of 4 mm is picked to give as wide as possible tunable range without having cracking issues from non uniform thermal expansion due to local heating from the pump laser. The longitudinal dimension of 2.5 mm is chosen to optimize the coupling strength KL 1.1. without inducing excessive strain which could lead to cracking of the sample as the sample is cooled to 77K . This also allows comparison with previous devices that were cleaved to the same dimensions. The final step is indium mounting the device onto a gold coated copper heat sink and mounting it to the cold finger of liquid nitrogen LN Dewar. The grating period is in the range of 410 to 420 nm corresponding to a tunable lasing range of 3060 to 3140 nm with effective refractive index of 3.72. The laser is operated under a 2.5 threshold pumping condition. To avoid the Fabry Perot F P modes from facet feedback the die was intentionally rotated 6 azimuthally about its normal so that the orientation of grating is tilted relative to the device facets. A CW 1.908 m thulium fiber laser is used as for optical pumping. The pumping stripe is formed with a cylindrical lens after the fiber output. All the characterization was done with pumping stripe normal to the orientation of grating and at 6 to the facets . This successfully suppressed the F P modes as shown in the following figures.

The device has been found to operate stably with successful suppression of the F P modes as shown in . The device shows a tunable range of 80 nm from 3058 to 3138 nm at a pump level of 3.0 W about 2.5 threshold as shown in . A fine tunability test was carried out by shifting the pump stripe in small increments of about 12.4 m perpendicular to the chirp direction. The spectral peak wavelength change is less than the F P mode spacing of the order of 0.5 nm throughout the tuning range though there are few bad spots with wavelength jump over 0.5 nm likely due to process induced sample damage. In a single facet output power curve is shown. The output power is still limited by the available pump power. The laser only operates in a DFB configuration with the pump stripe normal to the grating lines no F P lasing is observed when the pump stripe is rotated to facet normal.

It is noted that by increasing the tilt angle of the sample the lateral chirp can be increased to get a wider tunable range without increasing the longitudinal chirp. This will make a tunable range of over 100 nm or more possible for a 4 mm high tunable DFB device.

Methods are discussed that allow fabrication of a chirped grating for type II optically pumped tunable DFB laser which gives 80 nm tunable range with about 500 mW pump limited single sided output power has been presented. Methods are discussed that allows patterning of a grating with a larger lateral chirp but smaller longitudinal chirp. The fabricated device achieved a continuous tunable range of 80 nm from about 3060 to 3140 nm across a 4 mm wide device. This is compared with a continuously tunable range of only 15 nm in the devices reported in the first quarter a major improvement.

By using the present techniques a lateral chirp can be produced of about 11 nm across 4 mm distance compared with previous value of less than 2 nm for the low chirped devices. The longitudinal chirp value can be lowered by over 50 to less than 0.1 nm in 2.5 mm distance.

The free spectral range of the F P interferometer in this test is about 411 GHz cavity length of about 365 m . During the tuning of DFB laser pump focusing knob setting at 4.6 mm corresponding to a spectral linewidth of about 45 GHz as shown in the . Calibrated by the previous tunablity test of the device each data point in the plot corresponds to a stepper motor motion of 50 steps which shifts the device about 3.15 m equivalent to a wavelength change of about 0.063 0.071 nm. Considering the mirror reflectance of F P interferometer is about 98.5 in this range the finesse is about 208 and the smallest resolvable wavelength difference is about 0.063 to 0.065 nm across the whole scan range. Multi longitudinal operation was not not observed in this device. Given all of the above we think the sub peaks showing on the shoulder in peak and peak are real and due to existing lateral modes in laser output because the pump strip width in this case should be 70 m.

This conclusion correlates to the spectral linewidth plot by F P interferometer in in which the fluctuation in output amplitude and wider spectral linewidth are because of existing lateral modes.

In addition to the tunable laser application there are other optical devices where a controlled two dimensional chirped grating is desired. Another application would be for a the focal plane array detection where plasmonic effects can be are used to couple specific wavelengths into each pixel of the focal plane.

Another application is for a wavelength multiplexer where it is desired to couple different optical beams into a common propagation path for example a waveguide or a demultiplexer that provides the opposite function of separating multiple wavelengths from a common propagation path. A simple unchirped grating will provide this function but for a large range of wavelengths it can be desirable to restrict the angular range that needs to be accessed using necessitates a chirped grating structure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group. As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

