---

title: Identifying groups for a social networking system user based on group characteristics and likelihood of user interaction
abstract: A social networking system selects a set of groups for presentation to a user of the social networking system. To select groups, the social networking system determining scores for various groups representing a likelihood of the user interacting with the groups. When determining a score for a group, the social networking system accounts for a likelihood of the user providing content to the group as well as the user accessing or viewing content associated with the group. Based on the scores, one or more groups are selected and presented to the user. Additionally, the social networking system may apply one or more diversity rules so that the selected groups have a variety of characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538340&OS=09538340&RS=09538340
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09538340
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141110
---
This disclosure relates generally to social networking systems and more specifically to identifying groups of users to a social networking system user.

An online system such as a social networking system allows its users to connect to and communicate with other online system users. Users may create profiles on an online system that are tied to their identities and include information about the users such as interests and demographic information. The users may be individuals or entities such as corporations or charities.

Additionally a social networking system may maintain groups of users allowing a user to provide content to a group for presentation to each user included in the group. A group may be associated with a topic a location or with any other suitable characteristic so a user included in the group may more easily view or share content associated with the characteristic associated with the group. However as a social networking system may maintain a large number of groups a user may expend significant time identifying groups associated with characteristics of interest to the user. This decreases the likelihood of the user identifying groups of interest to the user which may decrease the amount of interaction between the user and the social networking system.

Users of a social networking system communicate messages or other content to each other via the social networking system. To simplify communication of content the social networking system may maintain various groups each including one or more users of the social networking system. A user may communicate content to a group which causes the social networking system to present the content to the users included in the group. A user may provide content to a group including the user for distribution to other users in the group or may view or otherwise access content associated with the including the user.

To allow a user to more easily identify a group of interest to the user the social networking system determines a score for various groups maintained by the social networking system. The social networking system may identify a set of groups as groups with which the user has at least a threshold likelihood of interacting within a time interval and determine scores associated with each group. For example the set of groups includes groups with which the user has at least a threshold likelihood of interacting during a 24 hour interval. To determine the likelihood of a user interacting with a group within the time interval the social networking system identifies characteristics associated with the group e.g. a topic associated with the group a location associated with the group etc. and identifies one or more groups with which the user previously interacted having characteristics matching or similar to the characteristics associated with the group. Based on interactions where the user accessed content associated with one or more of the identified groups and interactions where the user provided content to one or more of the identified groups the social networking system determines the likelihood of the user interacting with the group. For example the social networking system applies a model to the interactions where the user accessed content associated with one or more of the identified groups and the interactions where the user provided content to one or more of the identified groups to determine a frequency with which the user performs an interaction with the identified groups. The likelihood of the user interacting with the group during a time interval is based on the determined frequency and if the likelihood is at least a threshold value the social networking system includes the group in the set of groups. Characteristics of the group and the one or more identified groups having matching or similar characteristics of the group may also be used to determine the likelihood of the user interacting with the group during the time interval.

A score for a group is based on a model determining a likelihood of the user interacting with the group within a specified time interval. For example the score associated with the group represents a likelihood of the user interacting with the group during a 24 hour interval. Various interactions between the user and other groups maintained by the social networking system are used to determine the score for a group. For example the user s interactions with groups having at least a threshold number of characteristics matching or similar to a group are used to determine the score for the group. Examples of interactions used to determine the score for a group include the user providing one or more content items to an additional group with similar characteristics to the group for presentation to users associated with the additional group the user commenting on content items associated with an additional group with similar characteristics to the group the user sharing content items associated with an additional group having similar characteristics to the group and the user indicating a preference for a content item associated with an additional group having similar characteristics to the group. Additionally the score associated with the group is based in part on interactions where the user accessed content items associated with one or more groups having similar characteristics to the group. For example if the user views a content item associated with an additional group having similar characteristics to the group for at least a threshold length of time the social networking system identifies an interaction where the user has viewed the content item. A frequency with which the user views content items associated with groups having similar characteristics to the group or a number of times the user views content items associated with groups having similar characteristics to the group is used when determining the score for the group. Accounting for interactions where the user provides content to groups as well as interactions where the user passively views content associated with groups increases the likelihood of the social networking system identifying a group with which the user is likely to interact even by passively consuming content items associated with the group.

Based on the scores associated with various groups the social networking system selects one or more groups for identification to the user. For example the social networking system ranks groups based on their associated scores and selects one or more groups having at least a threshold position in the ranking. Alternatively the social networking system selects one or more groups associated with at least a threshold score. Information describing the selected groups is communicated from the social networking system to a client device associated with the user. The information may be presented in an order based at least in part on the scores associated with selected groups to allow the user to more easily identify selected groups with higher scores which increases the likelihood of the user identifying a group with which the user will subsequently interact.

In some embodiments the social networking system applies one or more rules when selecting groups to select groups satisfying different criteria. For example the social networking system obtains multiple sets of groups using various criteria with each set including groups satisfying one or more criteria associated with the set. Example criteria associated with a set include a location a user information describing additional social networking system users types of connections between the user and additional users or any other suitable information. For example a set includes groups associated with a location specified by criteria associated with the set or a set includes groups including users having a specific type of connection to a user specified by criteria associated with the set. When selecting the groups the social networking system applies one or more rules specifying a minimum number of criteria associated with different sets. Alternatively scores associated with a group may be modified based on criteria associated with a set including the group and criteria associated with sets including previously selected groups. For example if a group is included in a set that also includes at least a threshold number of previously selected groups the score of the group is decreased or a position of the group in a ranking is reduced. As another example the social networking system generates different rankings for each set of groups with a ranking for a set based on scores of groups included in the set. A threshold number of groups are selected from at least a threshold number of sets based on the ranking for each set to provide the user with different groups associated with different characteristics.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The client devices are one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device. In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . A third party system may also communicate information to the social networking system such as advertisements content or information about an application provided by the third party system .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding online system user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with information identifying the social networking system users displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing individuals to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other online system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the online system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the online system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a page e.g. brand page or any other type of content. Online system users may create objects stored by the content store such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party applications or third party applications separate from the social networking system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. A content identifier is associated with each content item to allow the social networking system to more easily identify and retrieve various content items. Hence online system users are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media to the social networking system through various communication channels. This increases the amount of interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

The action logger receives communications about user actions internal to and or external to the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user. In addition a number of actions may involve an object and one or more particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well and stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on third party systems that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system and information describing these interactions is stored in the action log . Examples of interactions with objects include commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items and any other suitable interactions. Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system that are included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communicating with a user establishing a connection with an object joining an event joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application expressing a preference for an object liking the object and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log may record a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as with other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting the interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system such as an external website and communicated to the social networking system . For example an e commerce website may recognize a user of a social networking system through a social plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as in the preceding example may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the social networking system to the social networking system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment the edge store stores information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. An edge between a user and another user may be associated with a connection strength specified by the user and providing information about a relationship between the user and the other user. For example connections between a user and other users with which the user has a close relationship such as family members have relatively high connection strengths while connections between the user and additional users with which the user has a more distant relationship have lower connection strengths. In some embodiments a user selects from connection strengths associated with different types of relationships e.g. family members co workers friends partners etc. when specifying a connection with another user and the edge store associates a selected connection strength with an edge describing the connection. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

In one embodiment an edge may include various features each representing characteristics of interactions between users interactions between users and objects or interactions between objects. For example features included in an edge describe rate of interaction between two users how recently two users have interacted with each other the rate or amount of information retrieved by one user about an object or the number and types of comments posted by a user about an object. The features may also represent information describing a particular object or user. For example a feature may represent the level of interest that a user has in a particular topic the rate at which the user logs into the social networking system or information describing demographic information about a user. Each feature may be associated with a source object or user a target object or user and a feature value. A feature may be specified as an expression based on values describing the source object or user the target object or user or interactions between the source object or user and target object or user hence an edge may be represented as one or more feature expressions.

The edge store also stores information about edges such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores or affinities may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest in an object or in another user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. A user s affinity may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest in an object a topic or another user in the social networking system based on actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 254 filed on Nov. 30 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 969 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 088 filed on Nov. 30 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored as a single edge in the edge store in one embodiment. Alternatively each interaction between a user and a specific object is stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

The group store includes information identifying various groups of users. A group is associated with a group identifier stored by the group score that uniquely identifies the group. One or more identifiers associated with users are associated with the group identifier to identify users of social networking system included in the group. Other information may be associated with a group identifier such as a name identifying a group corresponding to the group identifier a description associated with the group descriptive information associated with the group e.g. a location or other suitable information. Additionally one or more content identifiers specifying content items are associated with a group identifier to identify content items associated with a group associated with the group identifier. If a content item such as a message is communicated to a group the message is communicated to users associated with the group. Hence maintaining a group allows content to be more easily communicated to users within the group by allowing content to be communicated to the group rather than communicated to various individual users. A group may be generated by a user of the social networking system identifying users associated with the group or the social networking system may generate one or more groups based on characteristics associated with users of the social networking system . Additionally a user s interactions with a group are identified in the action log or in the group store by associating a group identifier with information describing an interaction with the group.

The social networking system includes a topic extraction engine which identifies one or more topics associated with objects in the content store or with groups in the group store . To identify topics associated with content items the topic extraction engine identifies anchor terms included in a content item and determines a meaning of the anchor terms as further described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 167 701 filed Jun. 24 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. For example the topic extraction engine determines one or more topics associated with a content item maintained in the content store . The one or more topics associated with a content item are stored and associated with an object identifier corresponding to the content item. In various embodiments associations between object identifiers and topics are stored in the topic extraction engine or in the content store to simplify retrieval of one or more topics associated with an object identifier or retrieval of object identifiers associated with a specified topic. Structured information associated with a content item may also be used to extract a topic associated with the content item.

To identify topics associated with a group the topic extraction engine identifies content items associated with the group based on information included in the group store and determines topics associated content items associated with the group based on anchor terms included in the content items as described above. In one embodiment the topic extraction engine associates topics with a group that are associated with at least a threshold number or threshold percentage of content items associated with the group. Alternatively the topic extraction engine ranks topics based on a frequency with which the topics are associated with content items associated with a group and associates topics having at least a threshold position in the ranking with the group. Topics associated with a group may be stored in the group store along with the group s group identifier.

The group selection module identifies one or more groups having at least a threshold likelihood of being relevant to a user allowing the user to more easily identify groups associated with content with which the user is likely to interact or groups including users with which the user is likely to interact of interest. Identifying groups for a user allows the social networking system to encourage the user to interact with a broader range of content items or users which increases the amount of interaction between the user and the social networking system . In one embodiment the group selection module determines a score for various groups where a score for a group is based on a model determining a likelihood of the user interacting with the group within a specified time interval. A score for a group is based on a model determining a likelihood of the user interacting with the group within a specified time interval. Various interactions between the user and other groups maintained by the social networking system are used to determine the score for a group. For example the user s interactions with groups having at least a threshold number of characteristics matching or similar to a group are used to determine the score for the group. Examples of interactions used to determine the score for a group include the user providing one or more content items to an additional group with similar characteristics to the group for presentation to users associated with the additional group the user commenting on content items associated with an additional group with similar characteristics to the group the user sharing content items associated with an additional group having similar characteristics to the group and the user indicating a preference for a content item associated with an additional group having similar characteristics to the group.

Additionally the score associated with the group is based in part on interactions where the user accessed content items associated with one or more groups having similar characteristics to the group. For example if the user views a content item associated with an additional group having similar characteristics to the group for at least a threshold length of time the social networking system identifies an interaction where the user has viewed the content item. A frequency with which the user views content items associated with groups having similar characteristics to the group or a number of times the user views content items associated with groups having similar characteristics to the group is used when determining the score for the group. Accounting for interactions where the user provides content to groups as well as interactions where the user passively views content associated with groups increases the likelihood of the group selection module identifying a group with which the user is likely to interact by accounting for a broader range of interactions when determining scores for groups.

Based on the scores associated with various groups the group selection module selects one or more groups for identification to the user. For example the group selection module ranks groups based on their associated scores and selects one or more groups having at least a threshold position in the ranking. Alternatively the group selection module selects one or more groups associated with at least a threshold score. Information describing the selected groups is communicated from the social networking system to a client device associated with the user. The information may be presented in an order based at least in part on the scores associated with selected groups to allow the user to more easily identify selected groups with higher scores which increases the likelihood of the user identifying a group with which the user will subsequently interact.

In some embodiments the group selection module applies one or more rules when selecting groups to select groups satisfying different criteria. For example the group selection module identifies multiple sets of groups form the group store using various criteria with each set including groups satisfying one or more criteria associated with the set. Example criteria associated with a set include a location a user information describing additional social networking system users types of connections between the user and additional users or any other suitable information. For example a set includes groups associated with a location specified by criteria associated with the set or a set includes groups including users having a specific type of connection to a user specified by criteria associated with the set. When selecting the groups the group selection module applies one or more rules specifying a minimum number of criteria associated with different sets. Alternatively scores associated with a group may be modified based on criteria associated with a set including the group and criteria associated with sets including previously selected groups. For example if a group is included in a set that also includes at least a threshold number of previously selected groups the score of the group is decreased or a position of the group in a ranking is reduced. Alternatively the group selection module ranks candidate groups based on their associated scores and penalizes a ranking of a candidate group if it is included in a set that also includes another candidate group having a higher ranking than the group. As another example the group selection module generates different rankings for each set of groups with a ranking for a set based on scores of groups included in the set. A threshold number of groups are selected from at least a threshold number of sets based on the ranking for each set to provide the user with different groups associated with different characteristics. Selection of groups is further described below in conjunction with .

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive and route messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information e.g. images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS.

The social networking system stores information identifying various groups of users. As described above in conjunction with a group includes a plurality of users of the social networking system and is associated with a group identifier uniquely identifying the group. One or more identifiers are associated with a group identifier to identify users of social networking system included in the group corresponding to the group identifier. Other information may be associated with a group identifier such as a name identifying a group corresponding to the group identifier a description associated with the group descriptive information associated with the group e.g. a location topics associated with the group a user that created the group or other suitable information. As described above in conjunction with one or more content identifiers specifying content items are associated with a group identifier to identify content items associated with a group associated with the group identifier. A group may be generated by a user of the social networking system identifying users associated with the group or the social networking system may generate one or more groups based on characteristics associated with users of the social networking system . Interactions associated with a group such as interactions between various users and the group are also stored by the social networking system by associating the group identifier with a description of an interaction along with user identifiers of one or more users associated with the interaction.

A request to identify one or more groups is received from a requesting user of the social networking system . For example the request is a search query including one or more search terms compared to information associated with groups by the social networking system . Alternatively the request is a request for content to be presented to the requesting user. As another example the request is a more general request from the requesting user to identify one or more groups with which the user is not currently associated. The request includes information identifying the requesting user such as a user identifier associated with the requesting user and may also include one or more characteristics of groups specified by the requesting user e.g. location topic connection between the requesting user and users associated with the group .

Using information identifying the requesting user from the request the social networking system identifies interactions associated with the requesting user where the requesting user provided content to one or more groups. Interactions or actions associated with a user identifier of the requesting user associated with a group identifier and specifying one or more types of interactions are identified . An interaction where the requesting user provided content to the group may be any interaction where the requesting user provided the social networking system with content that is associated with a group. Example interactions where the requesting user provided content to a group include the requesting user providing a content item to a group the requesting user indicating a preference for a content item associated with a group the requesting user sharing a content item associated with a group with one or more additional users the requesting user checking in to an event associated with a group the requesting user communicating a request to join a group to another user or any other suitable interaction.

Similarly the social networking system identifies interactions associated with the user where the user accessed content associated with a group. The social networking system stores information describing additional types of interactions where users viewed content associated with a group allowing the social networking system to maintain information describing passive interaction with content associated with various groups. For example the social networking system stores an interaction associated with a user and with a group when the user accesses a content item associated with the group via a client device for at least a threshold length of time or stores an interaction when at least a threshold amount of a content item associated with a group is presented by a client device . In various embodiments an application associated with the social networking system and executing on a client device communicates a user identifier a content item identifier and description of an interaction to the social networking system when the user accesses content for a threshold time interval or views at least a threshold amount of a content item. The social networking system stores the descriptions e.g. in the action log to maintain information describing users accessing or viewing content items.

Based on the interactions where the user provided content to a group and the interactions where the user accessed content associated with a group the social networking system determines scores associated with a set of groups. The social networking system identifies the set of groups as groups with which the user has at least a threshold likelihood of interacting within a time interval. For example the set of groups includes groups with which the user has at least a threshold likelihood of interacting during a 24 hour interval. To determine the likelihood of a user interacting with a group within the time interval the social networking system identifies characteristics associated with the group e.g. a topic associated with the group a location associated with the group etc. and identifies one or more groups with which the user previously interacted having characteristics matching or similar to the characteristics associated with the group. Based on interactions where the user accessed content associated with one or more of the identified groups and interactions where the user provided content to one or more of the identified groups the social networking system determines the likelihood of the user interacting with the group. For example the social networking system applies a model to the interactions where the user accessed content associated with one or more of the identified groups and the interactions where the user provided content to one or more of the identified groups to determine a frequency with which the user performs an interaction with the identified groups. The likelihood of the user interacting with the group during a time interval is based on the determined frequency and if the likelihood is at least a threshold value the social networking system includes the group in the set of groups. Characteristics of the group and the one or more identified groups having matching or similar characteristics of the group may also be used to determine the likelihood of the user interacting with the group during the time interval. For example a number or percentage of characteristics of an identified group matching characteristics of the group is used to weight interactions between the user and the identified group when determining the likelihood of the user interacting with the group during the time interval.

A score associated with a group provides a measure of a likelihood that the user interacts with the group by providing content to the group or by accessing content associated with the group. In various embodiments the social networking system identifies a group determines one or more characteristics associated with the identified group and identifies one or more additional groups having at least a threshold number or percentage of characteristics matching or similar to characteristics associated with the identified group. Example characteristics associated with a group include one or more topics associated with the group a location associated with the group users associated with the group a user creating the group and connections between the requesting user and users associated with the group. A model that associates values with different types of interactions is applied to interactions between the requesting user and the one or more additional groups to determine a score associated with the identified group based on the values. In different embodiments values associated with different types of interactions may be differently weighted so different types of interactions differently contribute to the score associated with a group. Additionally the model may weight values associated with interactions between the requesting user and various groups based on a number or percentage of characteristics of an additional group associated with an interaction matching or similar to characteristics of the identified group when determining a score associated with the additional group. Prior interactions between the requesting user and the identified group if any may also be used by the model when determining the score associated with the identified group and may be weighted higher than interactions between the requesting user and an additional group having characteristics matching or similar to the identified group.

Based on the scores associated with groups in the set of groups the social networking system selects one or more groups. In one embodiment the social networking system ranks groups in the set of groups based on their associated scores and selects groups having at least a threshold position in the ranking. Alternatively the social networking system selects one or more groups associated with at least a threshold score.

When selecting the one or more groups the social networking system may also account for one or more characteristics of groups in the set of groups so groups having a variety of characteristics are selected . For example the social networking system applies one or more rules to groups in the set with different rules specifying criteria based on different characteristics of groups. In one embodiment if a threshold number of groups having a characteristic are selected scores associated with other groups having the characteristic are reduced or positions of other groups having the characteristic in the ranking of groups are reduced to decrease the likelihood that additional groups having the characteristic are selected . An amount by which the scores or positions of other groups having the characteristic are decreased may be based on a number of previously selected groups having the characteristic. Alternatively scores or positions in the ranking associated with groups that have not previously been selected or have not been selected within a threshold time interval are increased.

In one embodiment the social networking system identifies multiple sets of candidate groups with each set associated with one or more criteria and including groups having characteristics satisfying the one or more criteria associated with the set. Example criteria associated with a set include a topic a location characteristics of users associated with a group types of connections between additional users and the user and a distance between a location associated with the user and a location associated with a group. is a process flow diagram of the social networking system identifying sets of candidate groups. In the example shown by the social networking system identifies multiple sets of candidate groups from the group store with each set of groups associated with one or more criteria. As shown in set A of candidate groups includes groups associated with a specific location set B of candidate groups includes groups associated with a specific topic and set C of candidate groups includes groups associated with one or more users having a specific type of connection to the user. In different embodiments any suitable criteria may be associated with a set of candidate groups and any number of sets of candidate groups may be generated based on information from the group store One or more selected groups are determined from the sets A B C of candidate groups as further described below. In the example of the selected groups include a group from each of set A set B and set C.

For example the social networking system ranks candidate groups which are each included in one or more sets of groups based on the scores associated with the candidate groups while accounting for sets including different candidate groups. If a candidate group and an additional candidate group are both included in a common set the ranking is modified to lower a position of the additional candidate group in the ranking relative to the candidate group. For example a position of the additional candidate group in the ranking is lowered. In the example from a ranking of group included in the set A of candidate groups is reduced if another group included in the set A of candidate groups has a higher position in the ranking. This reduces the likelihood of the selected groups including a disproportionate number of sources associated with the specified location associated with the set A of candidate groups. Hence a position in the ranking of a group is lowered if the group is included in the same group as another group having a higher position in the ranking. By penalizing a group included in a set that also includes another group with a higher position in the ranking the social networking system includes groups from a variety of sets of groups in the selected groups. Because different sets are associated with different criteria different sets include groups having different characteristics selecting groups included in different sets allows groups with a wider range of characteristics to be selected . In some embodiments a threshold number of groups from a threshold number of sets are selected .

Referring back to the social networking system may alternatively select a threshold number of groups having different characteristics based on one or more rules. For example the social networking system selects a threshold number of groups associated with maximum scores relative to other groups having a specific characteristic and also selects a threshold number of additional groups associated with maximum scores relative to other groups having an additional characteristic. In another embodiment the social networking system generates different rankings associated with different characteristics so a ranking includes groups associated with a particular characteristic ranked based on their associated scores. Based on one or more rules a threshold number of groups are selected from at least a threshold number of rankings associated with different characteristics.

Information identifying the selected groups is communicated from the social networking system to a client device associated with the requesting user that presents the information to the requesting user. For example names associated with one or more of the selected groups are communicated to the client device . Additional information such as one or more users connected to the requesting user and associated with a selected group a location associated with a selected group or content associated with a selected group e.g. an image associated with the selected group may be communicated to the client device for presentation. The information communicated to the client device may also include an order associated with the selected groups. For example the selected groups are ordered based on their associated scores so they are presented by the client device based on the order. In some embodiments selected groups having higher scores have higher positions in the order. If the received request was a search query the selected groups may be communicated to the client device along with an order based on the scores associated with the selected groups the selected groups are presented based on the order rather than an amount of similarity between topics names or other information associated with the selected groups and search terms in the search query. This allows the selected groups to be presented based on a likelihood of the requesting user interacting with various selected groups rather than similarity between characteristics of the selected groups and search terms to increase the likelihood of the requesting user identifying a group with which the requesting user is likely to interact.

In some embodiments the information communicated to the client device organizes the selected groups based on characteristics associated with the selected groups. For example multiple collections of selected groups are included in the information communicated to the client device with each collection associated with a characteristic. In one embodiment a collection includes selected groups associated with locations within a threshold distance of a location associated with the requesting user e.g. a current location associated with the requesting user a hometown associated with the requesting user . Selected groups having a characteristic are included in a collection associated with the characteristic. The client device may include multiple pages or sections each associated with a collection and may present additional information associated with selected groups included in a collection selected by the user. For example a collection may include selected groups associated with a particular location selected groups associated with at least a threshold number of additional users connected to the requesting user selected groups associated with a specific topic or selected groups associated with any suitable characteristic. Additionally the requesting user may provide an input to the client device to filter the selected groups based on characteristics associated with the selected groups allowing the requesting user to view selected groups having a specific characteristic or having a specific combination of characteristics.

As shown in the user may enter text a search query into a search bar included in the search interface to identify characteristics of groups. For example the social networking system identifies groups having one or more characteristics e.g. topic title location description etc. matching or similar to the provided search query. The social networking system provides the application with information describing selected groups B having characteristics matching or similar to the search query for presentation to the user via the search interface . As described above in conjunction with the information describing the selected groups B may be ordered based on their associated scores which indicate the likelihood of the user performing at least a threshold number of interactions with the selected groups during a specified time interval rather than on a measure of similarity between the characteristics of the selected groups and the search query. In other embodiments the information describing the selected groups B may be ordered in any other suitable manner. Example information describing the selected groups B is further described above in conjunction with . In the example of the user enters a search query of Cars into the search bar and the search interface presents information describing selected groups B matching or similar to the search query of Cars. 

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the patent rights to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the patent rights be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the patent rights which is set forth in the following claims.

