---

title: System for creating customized web content based on user behavioral portraits
abstract: A method is provided for determining a website user behavioral portrait based on navigation on the website and dynamically reconfiguring web pages based on those portraits. In accordance with the method, data relating to the progress of a user through a website is recorded, and an ongoing behavioral portrait of the user is built based on the data. The portrait is then used to dynamically reconfigure web content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633367&OS=09633367&RS=09633367
owner: III HOLDINGS 4, LLC
number: 09633367
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140117
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 276 485 filed on Oct. 19 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 666 835 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety which is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 012 522 filed Jan. 31 2008 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 719 105 which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 898 807 filed Feb. 1 2007 having the same inventors and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to methods for customizing web page content and more specifically to methods for generating user behavioral portraits based on web site navigation and search behavior and for dynamically reconfiguring web page content based on such portraits to produce personalized web page content.

As e commerce has evolved into a widespread means of doing business online competition among merchants has increased dramatically. Much of the attention in online marketing has been directed towards placing advertisements for products or services as close to a spending decision as possible since this is often a significant factor in an online merchant s likelihood of success.

As a specific example a car rental company might design their website so that it is likely to turn up as a relevant hit when a consumer uses a search engine to search the term car rental . The company might even purchase prioritization from one or more businesses that manage popular search engines such as YAHOO or GOOGLE so that their web site will appear near the top of the search results page whenever terms indicating an interest in car rentals are input into the search engine. In some cases the company may even go the additional step of purchasing banner ads or pop ups that are triggered by relevant search queries.

While the foregoing approach may be part of a sound online marketing strategy it suffers from the drawback that it relies upon an overt manifestation of consumer interest to identify potential purchasers of a product or service. Consequently such an approach may miss a significant number of sales opportunities simply because it identifies many potential purchasers of a product or service well after a spending decision has been made. In the interim the consumer may have been exposed to a wide variety of competing products and services.

Some of the more recent refinements in online marketing have focused on placing products or services even closer to a spending decision by looking for more subtle clues to a consumer s interests. Referring back to the previous example the car rental company may place advertisements on web sites that help consumers to purchase airline tickets based on the realization that a significant number of people who are purchasing airline tickets will also require a rental car. However while this type of approach may also form part of a sound online strategy it is founded on correlations that may be weak. Hence this type of approach often yields a low success rate.

Other methods of online marketing have evolved which seek to match advertising content to perspective purchasers based on relevance determined from broad demographic information or consumer purchase history. For example some websites use pop up ads and banners whose content is selected based on the gender and age of a consumer provided during web site registration on information gleaned from previous on line purchases by the consumer or on the geographic region indicated for example by the user s IP address.

However methods which rely on data obtained from web site registration are of limited utility since many consumers are hesitant to spend time on websites completing forms and profiles for what is perceived to be of little benefit. Methods based on broad demographic information frequently have a low success rate since they are necessarily based on broad generalizations which may not apply to a given consumer. Methods based on purchase history are prone to error since simple product relationships based on previous purchases can be misleading. Previous purchases may have no bearing on the consumer s personal interests as may be the case if those purchases represent gifts purchased for others. Moreover even if the previous purchases were for the consumer s personal enjoyment those purchases may not represent the consumer s current interests. For example the fact that a consumer s browsing history or previous purchases indicate a past interest in travel does not mean that the consumer has a current interest in travel. The consumer may have exhausted all of his vacation time and is now interested in goods and services commensurate with a regular work schedule.

In one aspect a method for dynamically reconfiguring web pages based on user behavioral portraits is provided which comprises a recording data relating to the behavior of a user on a website b building a behavioral portrait of the user based on the data and c dynamically reconfiguring web content based on the behavioral portrait.

In another aspect a method for developing user behavioral portraits is provided which comprises a recording data relating to the behavior of a user on a website and b building a behavioral portrait of the user based on the data.

In another aspect a method for reconfiguring web pages is provided which comprises a providing a behavioral portrait of a user and b dynamically reconfiguring web content based on the behavioral portrait.

In a further aspect a method for providing customized web pages is provided which comprises a receiving a request for a web page from a client associated with a user b modifying the requested web page in light of a behavioral portrait developed for the user and c providing the modified web page to the user in place of the requested web page.

In still another aspect a system for providing customized web pages is provided which comprises a a first server adapted to provide web pages to a client associated with a user and being further adapted to receive input from the user when the user accesses features on the web pages b a software program adapted to i receive user input from the first server ii create a behavioral portrait of the user based on the user input and iii dynamically update the behavioral portrait as additional user input becomes available thereby creating an updated behavioral portrait and c a second server adapted to alter the content of the web pages displayed by said first server based on the updated behavioral portrait.

In yet another aspect a system for providing customized web pages is provided which comprises a a server in communication with a client over a network and b a software program adapted to develop a behavioral portrait of a user associated with the client based on captured data relating to the online behavior of the user.

In still a further aspect a method for doing business is provided which comprises a providing a computing device equipped with a software program adapted to i receive user input from a server ii create a behavioral portrait of the user based on the user input and iii utilize the behavioral portrait to modify a web page b utilizing the computing device to produce modified web content c providing the modified web content to a web site provider and d charging the web site provider a fee based on the modified web content displayed on the web site.

In another aspect a method for doing business is provided which comprises a providing a behavioral portrait of a user to a third party entity the behavioral portrait being based on user input gathered during an online session that the user was involved in and b assessing a first fee to the third party based on the third party s acceptance of the portrait.

In still another aspect a method for doing business is provided which comprises a creating a behavioral portrait of a user based on user input gathered during an online session that the user was involved in b using the behavioral portrait to determine a recommended manner of interacting with the user and c selling to another party a document containing the recommended manner of interacting with the user.

In yet another aspect a method of analyzing a website is provided which comprises a recording data relating to the online behavior of a plurality of users through the website b building a behavioral portrait for each of the plurality of users based on the data c categorizing the behavioral portraits of the plurality of users into a plurality of portrait types and d analyzing the behavior of the plurality of users on the website as a function of portrait type.

In still another aspect a method for analyzing a web page is provided which comprises a categorizing the features appearing on the web page in terms of at least one behavioral trait which selection of the feature would indicate and b creating a graphical overlay which reflects the categorization of the features.

One major shortcoming of the above described marketing methods especially when they are applied in online marketing contexts is that they focus almost exclusively on identifying potential purchasers of a product or service rather than focusing on the manner in which the product or service is being presented. Consequently these approaches fail to apply psychological principles to the identification and accommodation of a consumer s preferred purchase patterns. In the equivalent human to human interaction attendant to a sales opportunity body language interaction dialog and physical indicators may all influence the tone form and content of any given conversation. These cues are critical to the success of any face to face sales meeting and a skilled salesperson will utilize these cues to quickly adapt his approach as necessary to maximize the likelihood of success.

By contrast such psychological principles have not been applied heretofore to equivalent web based dialogs. In particular methods currently utilized for implementing online advertising and selecting web content fail to ascertain the reason and motivation a given online consumer has for closing a sale. These methods ignore the manner in which a given consumer prefers to make decisions and fail to tailor the presentation of information to a consumer s preferences e.g. in accordance with how the consumer prefers to have information presented to them .

Continuing the car rental example given above and applying it to visitors to the website of a car rental company a first visitor to the website may be looking for a vehicle that offers excitement and entertainment for a camping trip. A second visitor may be looking for an image of success and style in a vehicle. A third visitor may be looking for the safest vehicle. In addition each of these visitors may have their own unique approaches to making a spending decision. For example one visitor may prefer to make a spending decision based largely on how others rate a particular product offering while another visitor may prefer to make a spending decision after reviewing a detailed comparison of product performance specifications. A website that fails to promptly recognize each of these diverse motivations and to present appropriate content in an appropriate manner that is suitably prioritized to reflect the user s preferred approach to making a spending decision may strike one or more of these users as being not particularly relevant to that user s interests. As a result the user may navigate to a different possibly competing web site.

It has now been found that the above noted needs may be met through systems methods and software of the type described herein which analyze an individual s online behavior so as to derive the individual s behavioral portrait and which use that behavioral portrait to modify the manner in which information is presented to the individual. In the context of a buying situation a behavioral portrait is the psychological profile of an individual as it pertains to the individual s preferences in that situation including their preferred decision making approach their motivation for making the purchase and the manner in which they prefer to have information presented to them.

In some embodiments the methodologies described herein and the systems and software which implement them apply scientific and psychological principles to improve the way that information is presented to a website user a . These methodologies may be used to emphasize information which is particularly relevant to a user s current needs and state of mind and to de emphasize information which although possibly important may be ancillary to a particular user s interests or decision making process. Consequently these methodologies may be utilized to customize websites so that they appear to have been defined for a given user s particular needs at a particular time. As a result navigation around the website will seem more natural for the user transaction closure procedures will be appropriately tailored so that they are more appropriate for the situation and the user s current state of mind and marketing offers on the site will be customized for user behavior as befits the time and context.

Preferably the behavioral portrait is utilized to dynamically and possibly automatically customize reconfigure or personalize web pages web content and or web sites so that the resulting web pages are more conducive to an individual s state of mind. As a result the individual s experience in navigating a website may be more rewarding. In an e commerce setting this may result in a greater number of sales closures and may have the effect of improving website applicability sales and return rates while also providing specific valuable information which may be utilized to differentiate a given website from competitive offerings. Hence in some embodiments the methodologies described herein may be utilized to provide dynamic and personalized web content which is adapted to customer buying behaviors.

In other applications an individual s behavioral portrait or information pertaining thereto may be provided to human salespeople call centers marketing teams and the like a for use in determining how to interact with that individual. These parties may use the behavioral portrait or information pertaining thereto to better understand how to communicate with the individual how to handle objections the individual may have and how to close a sale with the individual.

In still other applications analyses may be performed on the manner in which individuals interact with a website or web page as a function of their behavioral portrait a . These analyses may be utilized for example to refine a website or web page to make it more attractive to a target set of users to help a business better understand its customer base and how to interact with that customer base and to identify problem areas with a website or web page. In particular these analyses may be utilized to help the owner of a website or a web marketing program to determine how to improve e commerce closure rates to understand how to improve visitor return rates to understand why customers are leaving the website to increase the effectiveness of web marketing programs and offline programs and to understand how best to communicate with various customer segments.

As seen in the capture of web behavior may be accomplished through the use of software running on servers a which remotely and transparently monitor the online behavior of users a on a web site. The pages on the website or the templates from which these pages are derived may be provided with appropriate JavaScript or other suitable web applications which categorize and tag every relevant action that a user can take. These actions may include the pages a user navigates the items the user clicks on search terms entered by the user including the entry of narrowing searches check out information pages abandoned by the user selection of top 10 items by the user and other such information. depicts various actions a visitor may take on a single web page and various paths the visitor may take through a web site. These actions and the paths taken to get to a given action may be used to build a psychological behavioral portrait for that visitor.

By contrast methodologies are possible in accordance with the teachings herein which provide a variety of information very specific to the customer and the customer s current state of mind. This information is very useful in understanding how and when to interact with the customer. This includes information on the customer s decision making process a how the customer makes purchase decisions information on the customer s motivations a what motivates that customer to close on a transaction information on how the customer prefers to have information presented to them a an indication of when in the product lifecycle the customer is most likely to make a purchase a the marketing messages and images that are likely to appeal to the customer a and the level of detail appropriate for the customer a .

The methodologies described herein are especially useful in the context of e commerce and hence frequent reference will be made to the application of these methodologies within this context. However it will be appreciated that many of the methodologies described herein are broadly applicable to the customization of web content in any context to make it more compatible with the user s behavioral portrait. Thus unless otherwise indicated the methodologies and systems described herein should not be construed as being specifically limited to their use in e commerce settings.

With reference to the network b in this particular embodiment has a server side b and a client side b . The server side b comprises a SAN NAS Storage Area Network Network Attached Storage storage farm b comprising a plurality of storage devices b a database server b a variety of application servers b a dedicated server appliance b which runs the software for implementing the methodology described herein a server farm b which includes a plurality of web servers b and a firewall b .

The web servers b communicate with a plurality of client devices b and with a plurality of business partners b through the firewall b and over a suitable WAN wide area network b such as the Internet. The business partners b will typically be businesses that wish to market goods or services over the WAN b . In some cases these parties may supply advertising content to the web servers b .

The dedicated server appliance b is equipped with an application programming interface API b which enables it to receive and analyze user input from the server b . The API b further includes a portrait database b which stores existing user portraits and a portrait generator b which generates new user portraits based on the user input. In the event that the user already has a portrait stored in the portrait database b the portrait generator b recognizes this fact and modifies the existing user portrait as new information about the user s behavior becomes available. The API b then forwards the resulting user portrait to an application server b . The application server b acts upon the user portrait by generating re mashed web content which is personalized to the user s behavioral portrait and then passes the re mashed web content to the web server b for transmission to the appropriate client device b .

In a preferred mode of operation the dedicated server appliance b continuously updates the user portrait database b in real time as new input from a user becomes available and promptly passes an updated portrait or the updated portion thereof for the user to the application server b . The application server b in turn serves up re mashed content to the user. Hence the dedicated server appliance b provides dynamic reconfiguration of web page content and personalizes subsequent web pages for that user.

It will thus be appreciated that the server appliance b in may be implemented as a black box device which intercepts user behavioral data and outputs re mashed web pages based on that data. Such a device is advantageous in some applications in that it provides a means by which the provider of the device can extract a revenue stream from the re mashed web content using various business models some of which are described in greater detail below.

The manner in which the server appliance b achieves the foregoing functionalities may be appreciated from . As seen therein the server appliance b comprises an API b that receives user input from the server b and outputs PEPs to the server b and which communicates with the application server b as necessary to accomplish these tasks. The server appliance b further includes a customer portrait engine b which assembles and modifies customer portraits based on behavioral data captured from the server b a page interpreter b which interprets the various objects present on a web page a PEP generator b which utilizes the customer portrait to generate PEPs and a PEP database b where the PEPs so generated are stored. Though not explicitly shown the server appliance b may further include a portrait database for storing customer portraits generated by the customer portrait engine b .

The server appliance b in the system b of is further adapted to communicate customer portraits or information contained in or relating to customer portraits to various third parties b . Such third parties b may include without limitation sales people marketing teams and call centers and may utilize this data to more effectively communicate with the customer either directly or via the Internet or another suitable network.

The particular non limiting embodiments depicted in implement some of the methodologies described herein by incorporation of a dedicated server appliance into the server side of the network. Such an appliance solution is useful in some applications in that it provides the ability to architect the solution out of band with the current architecture and also provides a platform for the owners of a website to develop specific content for a user s portrait in the future this may include for example specific marketing offers on an e commerce website . However it will be appreciated that various other means are also possible for implementing some of the methodologies described herein.

For example some of these methodologies may be implemented as a software solution adapted to co exist on a given web server or back end server. In such embodiments the dedicated server appliance may be a hosted system. Instead of residing behind the client s firewall and web servers the appliance may reside in a central location for example at an ISP internet service provider . The software code used to observe customer web sessions and to develop behavioral portraits may be injected into the client web site using a JavaScript snippet placed in the client s web page templates. These JavaScript snippets may be activated in real time to insert the most current JavaScript code from the host system into the web page on demand. The JavaScript may then send the customer s click stream or other captured information back to the portrait engine on the hosted system. Using this captured information the portrait engine generates a behavioral portrait for the customer which is stored in a portrait database on the hosted system.

In a similar manner a portrait enhanced page PEP may be generated using JavaScript code that is injected into the client web page or a template from which the web page is derived using one or more JavaScript snippets which are inserted by the client into their web page structure. Following the same approach as described above a PEP generator may utilize the customer portrait to generate PEPs. The difference in this case is that the software code for the PEP generator resides on a hosted system instead of a dedicated server appliance behind the client firewall.

In operation the client b requests a webpage from the e commerce site b . The e commerce site b provides the requested web page which includes JavaScript of the type previously described. The JavaScript monitors the web activity of the client b and sends information about that activity to the web servers b of the service provider b . The web servers b store the information in one or more database servers b where it is used by the dedicated server appliance b to build user behavioral portraits. When the client b requests the next web page from the e commerce site b the web servers b intercept the requested web page and modify it based on the user s behavioral portrait. The web servers b then provide the modified web page to the client b .

The hosted server appliance b in the particular system b depicted in consists of a portrait database b a portrait engine b which may be based on a neural network a tool set b an analyzer b an instrumentor b and an augmentor b . The analyzer b analyzes information concerning the client s web activity as captured by the JavaScript inserted into the client s web page templates and works in conjunction with the portrait engine b to develop a user portrait which is then stored in the portrait database b . A variety of callable programs functions routines and the like may be used in this analysis which are stored in the toolset b . The augmentor b then utilizes portraits contained in the portrait database b to provide modified web content. The instrumentor b assembles the modified web content into a modified web page which is forwarded to the client b . In order to instrument a site the major set of web page templates is identified. The sections of the web page and the existing portrait bias of each are then categorized. Modifications to the sections are dependent on the type of portrait bias of that section.

Other variations and embodiments of the foregoing systems are also possible. For example while the user portraits are preferably stored in a portrait database see e.g. profile database b of in some embodiments of the systems and methodologies described herein these portraits may be stored instead on a cookie defined in a client device assuming this is permitted by the user s privacy software. In such embodiments the dedicated server appliance may be adapted to collect the user information from the client device as necessary via a server. It will be appreciated that hybrids of this embodiment are also possible where some user portraits or portions thereof are stored in the portrait database and other user portraits or portions thereof are stored on a cookie defined in a client device. In still other embodiments the software for implementing the methodologies described herein may be installed on a web server which may query the client device at appropriate intervals for updated user input information.

In a preferred embodiment the software described herein applies a possibly complex algorithm to determine an individual s psychological portrait score by interpreting the individual s navigation through a website hosted by a server. The scoring mechanism utilizes a derivative of a technique known as meta linguistic programming .

In particular the algorithm weights user actions that can take place on a given website by category and also by specific lexical analysis. Predicate and historical analysis is also input into the weighting. The algorithm is preferably adapted to reset to a generic weighting under appropriate circumstances to ensure that model inaccuracies or exceptional behavior can be accommodated.

Preferably the algorithm is characterized by a tipping point so that once a sufficient portrait weighting is achieved the software portrait triggers a number of potential actions on the website. These actions may include without limitation re mashing of the current website content for emphasis of particular data re routing procedures to suit a user s behavior in the current context re wording website content in accordance with a user s presentation preferences and re presentation of for example marketing offers to focus on the user s current context and portrait.

The methodologies described herein and the systems and devices which implement them offer a number of potential advantages. In particular these methodologies may be used to dynamically reconfigure web pages to make them commensurate with a user s current behavioral portrait. As a result the user will feel more comfortable on the website will be less likely to browse away from the website and will be more likely to return to the website in the future. This in turn will increase the likelihood of closure on the sale of products or services advertised on the website will allow marketing offers to be customized for that user s portrait at that particular time and will provide the user with customized procedures on the website.

The customer portraits which are generated may also be provided to sales teams marketing teams call centers or other such entities. These entities can use the information contained therein to personalize conversations and advertising campaigns for the respective users.

Some of the methodologies described herein also provide an effective means for context sensitive marketing. These methodologies provide the means to analyze the first few interactions e.g. mouse clicks with a website and apply that information to establish a behavior portrait frequently with respect to buying patterns for the user for subsequent interactions. These methodologies also provide the means to analyze the phraseology and syntax of a search and apply that information to the user s portrait for improved click through. All subsequent user interactions in the same session are then customized for the user s preferred information sources preferred marketing messages preferred sales approach and the like.

In a preferred embodiment of the methodologies described herein a meta linguistic process is utilized which comprehends fifteen different psychological attributes for a given user. These attributes are described briefly in TABLE C1 below. Of course it will be appreciated that various other psychological attributes of greater or lesser number could be utilized in the systems methodologies and software described herein. It will also be appreciated that various combinations or sub combinations of these or other psychological attributes may be utilized in these systems methodologies and software or in a given application or task. Moreover the number of attributes utilized may vary from one application to another and from one context to another.

Each psychological attribute is suitably weighted by the Customer Portrait Engine. Preferably this weighting occurs on a numerical scale which is given an almost infinite number of context sensitive and real time permutations for any given user at any given time. For example if the Customer Portrait Engine utilizes the 15 psychological attributes noted above each of these attributes may be tracked using a sliding scale with 0 as the neutral score. A weighting significantly on either side of neutral would indicate a tendency of behavior toward that setting.

The manner in which user behavior may be correlated to psychological attributes may be better understood by considering some specific examples. For example a user navigating directly to product specifications would demonstrate behavior typical of one type of decision making tendency while a user browsing through customer recommendations would demonstrate behavior typical of another type of decision making tendency. A customer clicking on a toothpaste advertisement described as bright smile would indicate a behavioral tendency towards one type of motivation versus a customer clicking on an offer to prevent tooth decay which would demonstrate behavior typical of another motivational tendency. A customer navigating through categories in a stepwise fashion e.g. electronics TV and video DVD player would indicate a behavioral tendency towards one type of information gathering versus a user selecting different categories which would indicate a behavioral tendency towards another type of information gathering.

The following example illustrates the application of some of the methodologies taught herein to an e commerce transaction.

User A decides to purchase a DVD player from a multi category website that is a website which sells electronics books clothing and various other goods and services . The user s pass through the website involves the steps of 

Each of these individual actions during the web session can be mapped to a set of rules or a knowledge base in the Portrait Engine. An example of such a mapping is shown in . In particular shows a standard e commerce web page with a selection of electronics products specifically DVD Players. shows the same web page with a link overlay showing the mapping from each individual link to the associated rule set within the knowledge base.

As User A performs the search in Step a a rule in the knowledge base is triggered to recognize a search for a specific item with multiple terms. This type of search indicates an independent decision making behavior. Therefore the score on the Decision Making attribute see TABLE C1 above is increased by 10 points. Similarly Steps b and c trigger rules for information gathering again indicating independent decision making behavior and increasing the score on that attribute to 30. Given the collection of Steps a through d identifying a specific product gathering specification data comparing to similar models and then selecting the individual DVD Player the knowledge base rules recognize procedural behavior. Therefore the score on the Information Presentation attribute is increased by 20 points. In Step e User A displays goal oriented behavior by expediting the shipping for this product and the knowledge base decreases the score on the Motivation attribute by 10 points. Therefore in this example User A s scores for the first three attributes in Table C1 are 

By comparison User B also goes to the same website to buy a DVD player and this user s e commerce dialog is as follows 

Again with the mapping from the links and actions on the web site to the rules in the knowledge base of the Portrait Engine each individual action by User B during this web session drives a score in the behavioral portrait. In the case of User B the focus on the recommendations and reviews of other customers shown in Steps c through h demonstrate a collaborative decision making behavior. The rules triggered by these steps collectively decrease the score on the Decision Making attribute by 30 points. The shift in User B s product direction demonstrated by Step g triggers rules which decrease the score on the Information Presentation attribute by 10 points indicating a choice oriented preference. In Step h User B exhibits a desire to avoid problems and the rules increase the score on the Motivation scale by 20 points. In this example User B s scores for the first three attributes in Table C1 are as follows 

Both users A and B have displayed key behavioral patterns in each of the transactions which can be used to dynamically reconfigure the web pages displayed on the website. Referring again to clicks and entries are passed from the clients web browsers b through the Internet b to the enterprise web server b . At this point the web server b passes the entry information through to the dedicated server appliance b via the API b software component in embodiments in which the methodology is implemented with software installed on an application server the web server b would pass the entry information to the appropriate application server b instead .

The API b passes the entry and user identification information through to the portrait generator b which interfaces with the portrait database b for historic user patterns and portrait information. At this point a current portrait is generated for that user at that time. If the current portrait is determined to be strong enough for representation of the website data the portrait and trigger is passed to the enterprise application server b responsible for presenting the website information to the web server b for potential re mashing of content and offers. The result of the processing in an e commerce application is a user personalized web page in the context of the current user behavior and buying pattern.

In some embodiments an initial matrix of behaviors may be utilized to establish an initial portrait for a user. Such a matrix may reflect the fact that consumers have different personalities and exhibit different behaviors based on time and topic. Such behaviors may be hard wired and may directly impact how a consumer feels when they are presented with information concerning a product or service.

This example illustrates how user behavior may be tracked weighted and utilized to develop a behavioral portrait for the user.

After each action the user s portrait is recalculated. This calculation is based upon a dynamic real time weighting for each of the 15 tracked psychological attributes shown in TABLE C1 with each attribute having a neutral setting of . The calculation also considers historical knowledge of that user s previous behavior in known dialogs and the previous weightings in the current dialog. Each of the 15 behaviors in TABLE C1 is tracked using a sliding scale with as the default weighting for each attribute. A weighting significantly on either side of indicates a tendency of behavior toward that setting.

The Portrait Engine or Portrait Generator is preferably used to dynamically recalculate the customer s scores on each of the attributes during the web session. The Portrait Engine also preferably considers historical knowledge of that user s previous behavior in known dialogs and the previous weightings in the current dialog. The engine may be based on a transition table a rule based knowledgebase other forms of artificial intelligence tools or various combinations or sub combinations of any of those tools.

While individual significant weightings that is weightings which might impact the website display format or navigation route may be sufficient to change web page content or layout in some of the embodiments described herein preferably combinations of attributes the user s behavioral history and the context of the dialog will be used to set the trigger flag and to intercept and analyze the web page being displayed to the user. Typically the page to be displayed will be modified that is a Portrait Enhanced Page PEP will be generated . As previously stated triggers and fail safes may be implemented throughout the system to ensure that PEPs are not displayed until the behavior is known with a degree of certainty or for example if the user demonstrates behavioral swings while in a transaction.

It will be appreciated that Portrait Enhanced Pages PEPs may be produced in the methodologies taught herein by amending web pages in a number of ways. Such changes include but are not limited to 

As previously noted in some embodiments the methodologies described herein may be utilized to modify or augment web page or website content or presentation as a function of user behavioral portrait. This process may be appreciated with respect to . As seen therein the behavior of a user on a website is captured d and is analyzed to build a behavioral portrait d for that user. It is then determined whether content modification is appropriate in light of the user s behavioral portrait d . If so the content on the website is modified augmented or enhanced d in light of the user s behavioral portrait. Typically as seen with reference to the sample web pages d shown in greater detail in this will result in a portrait enhanced web page which is substantially different from the standard unmodified web page.

In the particular embodiment depicted in the first level d of web page augmentation involves emphasizing or de emphasizing certain content. This may result in content being highlighted or being presented with an increased or decreased font size. It may also result in the collapse or expansion of certain menus and in the repositioning of content within a given web page.

Again referring to the particular embodiment depicted in the second level d of webpage augmentation involves personalizing offers appearing on the web page. This may involve for example presenting banner ads pop ups or hot links whose content is targeted to the user based on their behavioral portrait. This may also involve repositioning of offers on the web page in light of the user s behavioral portrait.

Still referring to the particular embodiment depicted in the third level d of webpage augmentation involves personalizing the content appearing on the web page. This may involve modifying the format in which content appears e.g. tab reviews modifying data appearing on the web page mash up of local content e.g. reviews on the home page and mash up of remote content.

Still referring to the particular embodiment depicted in the fourth level D of webpage augmentation involves the re routing expedition or delay of certain webpage content. For example the check out process required to purchase an item advertised on the web page may be modified in light of the user s behavioral portrait to ensure a higher level of satisfaction and success. Up sell processes appearing on the web page that is the practice of suggesting higher priced products or services to a customer who is considering a purchase such as an offer for a better version of the same product or service the consumer is considering purchasing may also be modified.

The augmentor b see uses portrait attributes and or type for deciding what applies to a given web page and a specific portrait or portrait type. In a preferred embodiment the augmentor uses JavaScript injection which requires the client to include a JavaScript snippet on each page that should be tailored to the current website user. Multiple insertion points may be required depending on the type of desired modifications and or page complexity.

Modification of the webpages is preferably accomplished via JavaScript that gets executed in the customer s browser. The JavaScript manipulating the page is preferably structured as rules along with a core library jQuery extensions . Only the rules specific for the combination of the client s web page and the customer s portrait type or attributes will be downloaded into the browser.

The jQuery JavaScript library is preferably utilized for creating rules to identify page sections portrait based content and to manipulate content. Extensions to the jQuery library may be created to simplify rule creation data selection and content manipulation. In order to reduce bloat it is preferred to use two types of extensions those common across clients and those specific to a client. In order to further minimize load and processing time the jQuery library may be reduced to the minimum code set required for the rules. The resulting library may then be compressed.

In order to instrument a site the major set of web page templates is identified. The sections of the web page and the existing portrait bias of each are then categorized. Modifications to the sections are dependent on the type of portrait bias of that section. The major types of typical content are listed in TABLE D1 below.

Level 1 modifications may include bolding highlighting changing the size of text collapsing sections lists repositioning sections expanding sections lists and deleting sections content using rules based on portrait attributes. Modifications of the identified sections on given web pages depend on the current user s portrait data and on the existing content type in the given sections. For example reviews and recommended product lists can be collapsed for a self user. Likewise reviews and recommended product lists might be positioned more prominently on the page for an other user. Examples of some possible modifications which may be implemented for various users are set forth in TABLES D2 D4 below.

Level 2 modifications preferably target specific portrait types by altering images and or text. There are at least two options for modifying text or images on a web page. One is to create an explicit augmentor rule and the other is to define images for a page and section in the portal.

The portal will preferably include web pages where the client can specify images and text that will be dynamically displayed based on the portrait type of the user. Prior setup work will typically include defining the page templates URL regex matching and page sections jQuery selectors using friendly names. For example the product page might have a friendly name of Product Page and the advertising section might have a friendly name of Top Right Advertisement . The user would then be able to specify alternate images text based on the portrait type. Images may be specified using only a URL. Text content will typically be specified in HTML format.

Level 3 modifications preferably add or replace content from the client and add mash up content from third party web sites. The portal will include web pages where the client can specify an RSS feed or URL from which to retrieve the mash up content along with a list of the desired fields from the resulting content. The mash ups may be handled by the client s development team to provide for optimal performance and client control.

In the foregoing process it is preferred that the clients identify web page sections by ids and classes as this may result in higher performance and reduced rule volatility. It is also preferred that the client assume as much responsibility for dynamic content as possible as this may provide for higher performance greater stability and consistency.

This example illustrates the modification of content on the website of an on line computer retailer for two different types of users in accordance with a particular non limiting embodiment of the methodologies described herein.

With respect to and some of the behavioral traits of two different hypothetical users are summarized. With respect to the first user Trish is a thinker type user. Trish is a type of user who is in control of her decisions d and will often say I have a gut feel d . Trish typically makes her decisions based on a review of detailed specifications and trusted sources d and is motivated by how an offered product will help her to achieve her goals d . She wants to see a positive result from her purchase d is heavily dependent on process and procedure d and is not likely to move to the next step in a purchase process before the current step is completed d .

By contrast the second hypothetical user Karl see is a browser type user. Karl likes to gather opinions on his potential purchase d . It is important to Karl that the product is positively reviewed has won awards and is a top 10 choice d . Karl is motivated more by avoiding problems then by missing opportunities d . Karl will often ask What do you think d . He feels constricted by process and wants to be able to choose from many options d . As a consumer Karl requires multiple paths to the same result d .

The behavioral portraits of Trish and Karl are summarized in respectively. As seen therein their behavioral portraits in this particular embodiment consist of a scaled weighting of 15 different behavioral characteristics including decision motivation information adoption relationships specificity frequency teamwork rules speed empathy intensity temperature shade and pattern.

Referring now to the manner in which particular web pages on a web site are modified in light of Trish s behavioral portrait is illustrated.

With reference to on the homepage d of the web site the advertisement appearing on the top of the home page is personalized d so that the language in the advertisement is more aligned with Trish s decision making attribute. Moreover the search bar is emphasized d . Given Trish s behavioral portrait it is likely that Trish knows what she s here for and she prefers web sites that allow her to get to a result quickly. This behavioral trait is accommodated by emphasizing the search bar which allows her to navigate through the site more quickly.

With reference to on the notebook category page d of the web site the fact has been recognized that the standard notebook category page does not give someone of Trish s behavioral portrait sufficient detailed information to make an informed choice. Consequently the page has been augmented by mashing up additional specification information d from other areas on the website. In addition non relevant content has been collapsed and de emphasized d thus resulting in a web page that more accurately reflects Trish s preferences. As with the home page d see advertising has been personalized d and offers have been reformatted d in accordance with Trish s behavioral portrait. Also the search bar has once again been emphasized d to allow Trish to get to a result quickly.

With reference to the notebook model page d of the web site has been personalized with the addition of specification detail d and re formatted offers d . Non relevant content has been collapsed d and search tools bread crumbs have been emphasized d .

With reference to the 1520 page d of the web site has been augmented so that the detailed technical specifications of the product under consideration are opened by default d . The advertising appearing on the web page and the layout of the web page itself continues to be customized d in accordance with Trish s information presentation preferences. The reviews which would ordinarily appear on this web page have been collapsed into a reviews tab d so that Trish may choose that content if she decides to but is otherwise not presented with it. Once again search tools and bread crumbs have been emphasized d .

Referring now to the featured systems page d of the web site has been customized in light of Trish s preferences with respect to advertising and page layout d . A reviews tab has been added d to the page so that the information it contains is de emphasized but is available to Trish if she chooses it. Search tools and bread crumbs have again been emphasized d .

With reference to the configuration page d of the web site has been reconfigured so that Trish is redirected past the services page d . This reflects her suspicion of content which is introduced into the close process without her consent. All other close pages which are appropriate for Trish s buying patterns are available. Non relevant content as been collapsed d .

Referring now to the manner in which particular web pages on the same web site are modified in light of Karl s behavioral portrait is illustrated.

With reference to the homepage d of the web site has been modified to reflect Karl s preference for gathering product information from reviews testimonials and customer success stories. To that end review content d has been added to the page and a community link d has also been provided. Moreover since Karl is motivated by choices the advertising content appearing on the page has been personalized D to stress the choices that the product offers.

With reference to which shows the notebook selection page d of the web site Karl s online buying patterns have indicated a need for choices and recommendations. He is less concerned with detailed specifications but prefers peer reviews and popular choices. Therefore some of the product specification information on this page has been replaced with a listing of all notebooks available in all product lines d and the user ratings of each of these products is specified. In addition recommended links have been expanded d and the availability of help and support has been emphasized d . Advertising has also been personalized in light of Karl s behavioral portrait d .

Referring now to which shows the featured system page d this page of the web site has been modified to reflect the fact that Karl s primary information source is peer reviews. Consequently the specification content has been collapsed d though it is still accessible and a reviews tab has been added d and expanded d . The advertising appearing on the web page has again been personalized d to reflect Karl s behavioral portrait.

Karl s check out page d is depicted in . Karl is opened to recommended configuration options for his purchase including service options. Therefore this page is not skipped as it was for Trish. Again the advertising appearing on this web page has been personalized d to reflect Karl s behavioral portrait.

As previously noted some of the methodologies described herein may be utilized to provide an analysis of browsing behavior on a web site as a function of behavioral portrait type. Such an analysis may help the owner of a website to improve e commerce closure rates to improve the rate of return visits to the website to understand why customers or potential customers leave the website to understand how to improve the effectiveness of web marketing programs and offline programs to better align offline marketing with website content and to understand how to best communicate with different customer segments.

This example illustrates the types of analytics see which may be generated on an e commerce web site using some of the methodologies described herein.

As these results also illustrate behavioral portrait types B D and G show a much lower than average return rate as compared to other behavioral portrait types. The combination of below average total visit numbers for these behavioral portrait types as indicated above combined with the very low return rates indicated here suggest an issue with website behavior not matching expectations for consumers of this behavioral portrait type.

Consumers of behavioral portrait types C E and G are showing very low close rates on the website when compared to other behavioral portrait types. The very poor visit rates exhibited by consumers of this behavioral portrait type as compared to consumers of other behavioral portrait types strongly suggests that traffic generation for consumers of these behavioral portrait types is not working. When it does work these visitors close less than those with other portrait types. This result may be intentional. However if it is not these results suggest that the abandoned pages should be checked and the language or presentation on these pages should possibly be modified to better align them with consumers of these behavioral portrait types.

Consumers of behavioral portrait types A and F are closing and abandoning at approximately the same rates. These indicators demonstrate very good alignment between marketing campaigns and website behavior. Nonetheless the web site manager may wish to check the abandoned pages and program marketing campaign statistics to determine whether further tuning can occur.

Consumers of behavioral portrait types B and D are showing very high close rates when compared to consumers of other behavioral portrait types. This result suggests a serious misalignment of traffic generation activities online and offline marketing campaigns pay per click etc. and the behavior and language used on the website. Consumers having these portrait types are closing at a high rate but traffic generation programs in the outbound marketing activities in use appear to be driving these customers to the site in lower numbers as compared to consumers having other behavioral portrait types. Alignment of the language used in those marketing campaigns may drive higher levels of qualified closing traffic to the site. The programs and advertising statistics may also be checked for further details on what is working and what is not working

These results also show that consumers of behavioral portrait types B and D are clicking through an average number of pages on the website. Consumers having these behavioral portrait types are closing within a few clicks. This suggests that the website is organized appropriately for consumers of these portrait types and that such consumers are finding the information that they need.

The results also demonstrate that consumers of behavioral portrait types G and H are clicking through very few pages on the website and are abandoning the website very quickly on average within the first few clicks . It is possible that the first few pages presented to these customers are the problem. For example specifically ending pages from outbound programs or common entry points from pay per click activities may be demonstrating the suspect behavior. These results suggest checking the abandoned page details and focusing on tuning these pages first. Another possible approach would be to test specific marketing programs with new landing pages more specifically focused on consumers of these portrait types.

In a preferred embodiment of the web site analytical software and methodologies provided herein a knowledge base is provided which conducts real time analysis of the behavioral data collected from web sessions. Using a set of rules or other analytical tools the exhaustive set of data may be mined for patterns trends alignments disconnects and other observations. This analysis recognizes and identifies the complex conditions involving various combinations of the data and statistics collected by the Portrait Engine the software module that generates user behavioral portraits see . The key results can be highlighted and a manageable set of recommendations can be made based on those results. In this way a marketing team utilizing the report receives more actionable information instead of an overload of data with no ability or means of identifying the critical content.

The generated report describes the web analytics and behavioral data presented in the report s graphs by pointing out the important observations marketing or e commerce teams should notice. In the example shown above the rules engine identifies that customers with Portrait type F have a much higher visit rate than average. However the closure rate for Portrait type F is considerably lower than that of Portrait type B. In this particular example the results could indicate that the outbound marketing campaign is more oriented to those customers who display the behaviors of Portrait F while the site itself is more comfortable to customers with behaviors of Portrait type B.

The user behavioral portraits obtainable with the systems and methodologies described herein may be utilized by various groups to enable them to communicate more efficiently with the user to whom the behavioral portrait corresponds. Such groups include without limitation telemarketers call centers sales representatives help centers and sales teams making face to face sales pitches. The information contained in the user behavioral portrait may be utilized by itself or in combination with general analyses or recommendations for users of the general behavioral portrait type to understand how to communicate with the user more effectively to understand how to handle common objections the user may have and to identify the best manner in which to close a sale with the user.

In the case of call centers sales forces or other similar teams the portrait of the customer or potential customer may be used to generate a customer passport. A review of the customer passport a non limiting example of which is depicted in may provide the employee with information about the customer s preferred approach for making decisions their basic motivation for completing a transaction their preferred means of receiving information and their behavior in terms of each of the remaining attributes. Recommended language may be provided to the employee to create the highest level of comfort for the customer. Similarly language which will create a dissonance for the customer may be identified. Furthermore specific language recommendations may be provided to advise the employee on preferred or optimal methods for closing or re engaging the customer or responding to common objections the customer may have. Finally a sample engagement script may be provided for the employee s specific company and situation.

Again all of this information and these suggestions may be based on the customer s portrait which is dynamically generated during their web session. It will thus be appreciated that the passport allows a person using it to understand the proper language to use to describe products and services to the customer to understand the proper way to personalize and position marketing messages for the customer and to understand the proper way to close each customer.

The foregoing methodology is depicted schematically in . As seen therein after a user s behavior on a web site has been captured f a comprehensive customer portrait is built f based upon that behavior. This portrait is then used to generate a customer passport f which may be utilized by any of the groups described above to facilitate interaction with the customer f .

While much of the foregoing discussion has dealt with web based marketing it will also be appreciated that the systems methodologies and software disclosed herein are not particularly limited to that application. In particular the systems methodologies and software disclosed herein may be applied to a wide variety of applications where customized web pages and or content are desirable including for example gaming nonprofit websites and general Internet use.

As a particular non limiting example methodologies of the type described herein may be utilized to provide customized web pages or web content in noncommercial applications such as government web sites. For instance these methodologies may be utilized to provide customization of an IRS web site. Since many taxpayers consult such a site when they have questions relating to their taxes and since some of the methodologies described herein may be utilized to ensure that information is being presented to these users in a way that is most helpful to them the use of these methodologies may ensure that users are more likely to stay on the website longer and to find the information they are looking for. This in turn may reduce the burden on the IRS call center and may also reduce the number of mistakes in subsequent tax returns.

In other embodiments behavioral portraits for users may be derived from web sites which are unrelated to a business. Those behavioral portraits may then be utilized in the conduct of the business with respect to the individual or to the public and general.

For example the behavior of a particular individual on a noncommercial website may be monitored and a behavioral portrait of the individual may be derived. That behavioral portrait may then be applied to customize content on a commercial website or may be provided to call centers or other marketing groups to help those groups understand how to interact with the individual. Such embodiments make it conducive for a business to underwrite a website which provides free content of interest to the general public since the business may then apply the information it has learned on the nonprofit site to provide a commercial benefit albeit indirectly to its commercial business.

The methodologies disclosed herein may also give rise to a number of unique business models. In the current business climate businesses are increasingly looking for methods to ensure that the products and services they purchase are not burdened with onerous up front costs. Rather the current trend is for products and services which demonstrate business value before payment. Consequently a number of pay per use and pay per performance products are available today.

In the present case some of the systems and methodologies described herein lend themselves well to a cost model that allows the customer to decide whether the product has impact as the transaction occurs. The unit of cost may be taken as the Portrait Enhanced Page i.e. the modified web page for a particular customer during a particular web session . As the psychological behavior of the customer is tracked and weighted the software described herein may be used to generate new web pages for that dialog. These Portrait Enhanced Pages PEPs may be offered to the website provider who may either display the PEPs or opt out of doing so. If the PEP is displayed the website provider may be charged a small fee thus eliminating heavy up front licensing costs and allowing the customer to determine the limit of the investment based upon business value. This model also lends itself to subscription services where an Internet service provider may package availability of PEPs with their higher end service packages.

In other business models possible in accordance with the teachings herein the user portraits described above may be provided to various third party entities such as call centers marketing teams sales forces and the like. Preferably the fee for such portraits is based only on the number of portraits provided to and accepted by the third party entity although various other payment options may be utilized instead. For example the party providing the portraits may earn a commission which is calculated as a percentage of or is otherwise based on the value of one or more successful sales which are subsequently made by the third party entity to the user whose portrait is provided to that entity.

In some embodiments of the methodologies described herein the provision of user portraits may be coupled with the provision of other leads relating to the users whose portraits are provided. The party providing the user portraits may be the same as or different from the party providing the leads. For example the party providing the user portraits may be a search engine and the party providing the leads may be the sponsor of one or more websites that the user has visited or a business entity such as for example a travel agency retailer bank or credit card company that the user has done business with in the past. In such embodiments the third party entity may decide whether or not to accept the portrait with the lead and fees may be charged only when portraits are exchanged.

The resulting fees may be apportioned among the search engine and lead generation company in accordance with a contractual agreement between the organizations. If the party providing the user portraits is the same as the party providing the leads a premium may be charged for the provision of a lead in conjunction with a portrait as compared to the fee charged for providing only a portrait.

The above description of the present invention is illustrative and is not intended to be limiting. It will thus be appreciated that various additions substitutions and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention should be construed in reference to the appended claims.

