---

title: Call center agent management
abstract: Call center personnel, i.e., company agents may be monitored and information from monitoring the call center agents may be presented on a portable device. The information from monitoring the call center agents may include various key performance indexes (KPIs) that enable the performance of the call center agents to be assessed. The KPIs may be updated in near-real time based on monitoring pending calls handled by the agents. Sound analytics may also be performed on the calls. Information regarding the call center agents may be graphically organized by the portable device so that call centers agents who may need assistance may be easily identified. The portable device may join a call. For example, a setting for a session associated with the call may be modified to include the manager device in the session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09167095&OS=09167095&RS=09167095
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09167095
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140605
---
Companies often use call centers to address customer inquiries take customer orders and or resolve customer problems. Agents i.e. company personnel at the call centers interact with the company s customers during telephone calls to provide assistance. The agents are often the companies primary contact with customers and dissatisfaction with the agents may adversely affect the customers perception of the company.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

In systems and methods described herein call center agents may be monitored and information from monitoring the call center agents may be presented to a portable device used by an agent manager whose responsibility is at least to effectively supervise and mentor the agents. The information from monitoring the call center agents may include various key performance indexes KPIs that enable the manager to judge the performance of a group of call center agents. The KPIs may be updated in near real time based on monitoring current calls. In another example sound analytics may be performed to identify words spoken during the calls and these words may be analyzed to determine data regarding the call and or to assess the call agents performances.

Furthermore information regarding the call center agents may be graphically organized by the portable device so that call centers agents who may need assistance e.g. an agent with one or more KPI values that are outside of desired parameters may be easily identified. The portable device may request to join a call e.g. based on a user input or the portable device may be automatically added to a call associated with an agent identified as possibly needing assistance. For example a setting for a session associated with the call may be modified to include the manager device in the session.

Call monitoring device may monitor a call between agent device and caller device . For example call monitoring device may identify a particular agent device and a particular caller device associated with a call. Call monitoring device may further monitor a status of the call e.g. whether a session carrying data associated with the call is still active . Call monitoring device may further calculate KPIs based on the data obtained from monitoring the calls. When the call is associated with digital data call monitoring device may inspect the data units carrying the voice data e.g. voice over internet protocol or VoIP packets and forward the voice data toward the particular agent device or the particular caller device associated with that call. For example call monitoring device may determine the particular agent device and the particular caller device based on routing data included in the header of the voice data.

In one implementation call monitoring device may perform speech analytics when monitoring the call. When performing the speech analytics call monitoring device may identify words used during the call using for example speech to text conversion. Call monitoring device may further determine if some of the words spoken during the call indicate dissatisfaction and or frustration by the caller. For example call monitoring device may store a list of particular words indicating dissatisfaction and or frustration and may determine whether any of the particular words are spoken during the call. The list of particular words may vary for example based on the geographic location of the caller and or based on the products and services associated with the caller. If the call is carried over a communications signal call monitoring device may also determine attributes of the communications signal e.g. a maximum amplitude variance etc. . For a call carried over a digital channel e.g. an internet protocol or IP communication call monitoring device may analyze data carried in data units of the digital channel e.g. in IP packets to determine the words of the call. For example call monitoring device may decode audio e.g. vocal content stored in the data units and determine the words included in the audio content.

Manager device may include a portable device such as a tablet computer that provides a call center manager with information regarding agents located at a call center while allowing the manager to move about the call center to interact with individual agents when desired such as when an agent is having difficulties with a call. Manager device may include for example a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a wireless device a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer e.g. with a wireless air card a global positioning system GPS device a gaming device a portable media player a consumer electronics device or other types of computation or communication devices.

Call distribution device may distribute calls received at call center to one of agent devices . For example call distribution device may forward an incoming call to an available one of the agent device . In another implementation call distribution device may identify a caller a topic or other aspects of an incoming call and may forward the call to an appropriate agent device . For example call distribution device may be associated with an IVR system not shown that asks the caller questions to identify information regarding the caller and the nature of the call.

In one example call distribution device may determine information regarding the agent such as KPIs or other measures such as ratings provided by a manager and or callers and may distribute the incoming calls based on the information regarding the agent. For example call distribution device may attempt to forward the call to the highest performing agent that is available to receive the call.

In one implementation call distribution device may perform session management to establish a data or communications session e.g. a SIP session between agent device and caller device via network for establishing the call. When managing a call session call distribution device may establish the session to include monitoring device so that monitoring device may receive information e.g. voice data related to the call. When appropriate such as when a corresponding user input is received by manager device the session may be further modified to allow manager device to interact with the agent and or caller.

Agent device may represent a workstation computer and operator used to handle calls from callers. Agent device may include a workstation or computer such as a personal computer or laptop. Agent device may also include any device capable of performing IP based messaging such as VoIP to transmit voice video and or text. Agent device may also include any telephone device not shown to place and receive telephone calls. For example the telephone device may be a standard telephone a cordless telephone a cellular telephone or any other type of telephone. The telephone device may also include any type of device that is capable of transmitting and receiving voice signals to from a data network. For example the telephone device may include any client such as a computer device a web based appliance etc. that is configured to provide telephone functions. The telephone device may for example be a SIP based telephone device. In this case the SIP based telephone device may take the form of a standalone device e.g. a SIP telephone designed and configured to function and appear like a conventional telephone. A SIP based telephone device may also include a software client that may run for example on a conventional PC laptop computer or other computing device. In some implementations agent device may include speech recognition hardware software that receives voice responses from a caller and identifies what the caller has voiced.

Network may be a communications network and or data network that connect caller devices to call center . For example network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wireless network an optical fiber or fiber optic network or a combination of these or other networks. In addition or alternatively network may be included in a radio network capable of supporting wireless communications to from one or more devices in environment and the radio network may include for example a long term evolution LTE network another 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP 3G 4G network Global System for Mobile Communications GSM wideband code division multiple access WCDMA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access 1000 CDMA2000 High Speed Packet Access HSPA Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax enhanced high rate packet data eHRPD or a network implemented in accordance with future wireless network standards. In another implementation network may be included in one or more private Internet Protocol IP networks that use a private IP address space. For example network may be included a local area network LAN an intranet a private wide area network WAN a virtual private network VPN etc.

Caller device may include any type of communication or computation device that is capable of transmitting and receiving voice signals and or data to from a network such as network . For example caller device may include any standard telephone cordless telephone cellular telephone or other type of conventional telephone that interfaces with a public switched telephone network PSTN and or wireless network to place and receive telephone calls. Caller device may also include any client such as a computer device a web based appliance etc. that is configured to provide telephone functions using for example voice over Internet protocol VoIP H.323 protocol etc. For example caller device may include a SIP based telephone device. In this case the SIP based telephone device may take the form of a standalone device e.g. a SIP telephone designed and configured to function and appear like a conventional telephone. A SIP based telephone device may also include a software client that may run for example on a conventional personal computer PC laptop computer or other computing device.

Caller device may further include any type of communication or computation device such as a PC laptop computer tablet computer personal digital assistant cell phone etc. that is capable of transmitting data e.g. emails text messages instant messages facsimiles etc. video data e.g. video calls video chats video messages etc. and or voice data e.g. voice calls to from a network such as network .

Backend devices may include devices that generate and or manage data regarding agents e.g. employment records callers e.g. account data and or other data used by monitoring device and monitoring device may include one or more application programming interface APIs that allow monitoring device to access data through backend devices . For example backend device may include a human resources device that stores data about an agent and or a client account device that stores data regarding the status or other information about a caller s account.

In the particular arrangement and number of components of environment are illustrated with simplicity for purpose of illustration. In practice environment may include additional fewer and or different components. Furthermore functions described as being performed by a component in environment may be performed by a different component and or by multiple components in environment . For example manager device may perform some of the call monitoring functions described above with respect to monitoring device .

As shown in an exemplary interface A may include an area presenting agent data regarding an agent at the call center. Agent data may include for example an agent image A an agent name B an agent title C etc. associated with the agent. Agent data may be collected by manager device . For example manager device may include one or more cameras shown in as front camera and rear camera to collect agent image A. Additionally or alternatively manager device may determine agent data based on user input and or data received from another device e.g. a backend device in that stores human resources data .

Interface A may further include an area to present agent status data regarding a status of the agent such as an indication of whether the agent is on a call A whether the agent is on a break e.g. unable to take a call B etc. Manager device may determine agent status data based on data received from other devices. For example manager device may receive an indication from a device being used by the agent e.g. shown in as agent device and or from a device distributing calls to the agent e.g. shown in as call distribution device regarding whether the agent is accepting calls e.g. not on a break and or whether the agent is currently handling a call.

Continuing with an exemplary interface A may include an area presenting caller data such as a caller identifier ID A e.g. the caller s name telephone number and or account number and account data B associated with the caller e.g. products and services associated with the caller s account . Manager device may determine the caller ID A from a device handling distribution of the call within the call center e.g. call distribution device and manager device may use caller ID A to access account data B from a customer account data storage device e.g. backend device . In one implementation caller data may further identify products and or services that are available to the caller but are not associated with the caller s account e.g. products and services that may be offered to the caller . In another example caller data may provide information regarding the caller s location such as providing an indication of any service disruptions at the caller s location or an indication of attributes of the caller s location e.g. whether the caller is calling from a business or residence whether a residence is a single family home or a multiunit dwelling etc. .

Interface A may also include an area presenting call data such as a call length A e.g. an amount of time that agent has been speaking with the caller a call type B e.g. whether the call is a request for technical support an inquiry regarding new goods or service a request to change existing goods or service etc. and or an indication C of whether the call is a repeat call e.g. the caller is calling back after a prior unsuccessful call . Call data may be collected from inputs received by the agent e.g. an input received by agent device in and or distributed to the agent e.g. from call distribution device in . For example when a call is initially received the caller may be asked e.g. by an interactive voice response or IVR system questions regarding the caller and or the nature of the call. In one implementation interface A may present graphical indicators representing call data . For example if call type B indicates that the call is an inquiry regarding new goods or service a money symbol may be displayed.

In one implementation the call may be monitored e.g. by call monitoring device in to determine features of the call. For example sound analytics may be used to evaluate the conversation between the caller and the agent. For example speech to text processing may be used to determine some of the words used during the call and these words may be processed to identify call type B e.g. by identifying whether certain words related to technical support or sales are used during the call . In another example the words from the call and or other aspects of the call e.g. the volume of the speakers the numbers of words spoken the number and duration of pauses etc. may be evaluated to determine a mood of the agent and or caller e.g. to determine whether the caller has used language during the call indicating satisfaction and or dissatisfaction with the agent . For example the call may be monitored to determine if the caller asks to speak with a supervisor and or asks to discontinue a product and or service.

Interface A may also include an area presenting alerts that may be determined cased on the call data and or other data collected by manager device . For example a user of manager device may define certain alert conditions e.g. a maximum amount of break time a maximum call length etc. and alerts may indicate whether any of the alert conditions are present with respect to the agent the caller and or the call. For example alerts may include an indication A of whether the call length is too long e.g. whether call length A has exceeded a threshold length of time . Alerts may also provide an indication of an agent failure to successfully handle the call B e.g. the agent could not complete a sale or resolve a technical issue . Alerts may also provide an indication based on caller s mood C when the caller is unhappy with the agent C e.g. if the caller has used language during the call indicating dissatisfaction and or frustration with the agent .

Continuing with interface A may further include data identifying actions that are available to the manager with respect to the agent and or call. For example a view KPIs action A may allow the manager to view KPIs measured for the agent and or call as described in greater detail below regarding . A join call action B may allow the manager to take over and or join the call as described in greater detail below regarding such as to intervene when one or more of the KPIs indicated that the call is not going well e.g. if the call length is too long and or the caller is dissatisfied . A view call history action C may allow the manager to view a call log identifying information regarding prior calls handled by the agent and or received from the caller as described in greater detail below regarding . A view tasks action D may allow the manager to view tasks to be performed by the agent and or on behalf of the caller as described in greater detail below regarding .

A view training data action E may present training suggestions for the agent associated with the call based on the measured KPIs. For example if the call length exceeds a desired maximum time selection of view training data action E may provide training materials directed to training the agent to complete the call in a shorter time and contents of the training materials may be populated based on call data e.g. such as type of call B . Other actions not shown in may relate to for example communicating with the agent or transferring the call to another agent.

Manager device may select actions from a group of possible actions data presented within interface A. For example the joining the call action B may be presented when one or more of alerts indicate a problem with the agent s handling of the call e.g. an excessive call length alert A .

As shown in an exemplary interface B may show KPIs values results related to the agent caller and or current call. For example interface B may show an average call length A corresponding to an average length of prior calls handled by that agent received from the caller and or belonging to the call type B. In this way manager device may help a user of manager device to determine for example that an agent although call duration A is within an acceptable range may need assistance because call duration A exceeds an average call duration A for the agent and or the type of call. Similarly if call duration A is outside of the acceptable range but does not exceeds a higher average call duration A associated with a particular caller manager device may determine that the agent does not need assistance.

Continuing with interface B may further show for example information identifying a percentage of calls resolved by the agent B such as the percentage of sales inquiries successfully handled by the agent e.g. calls that lead to an actual order and or a percentage of technical support requests that were resolved by the agent without requiring dispatching a technical support worker to visit the caller. Similarly interface B may further show for example information identifying a percentage of repeat callers C e.g. callers that called back to the call center after being assisted by the agent indicating that the callers were not satisfied with the support initially received from the call center . In other examples not shown in a KPI may compare agent status data call data etc. for several agents such as comparing current average call lengths among a group of agents. The KPIs may be specific to the agents identified in interface B. For example if interface B identifies a group of agents average call length A may correspond to an average length of prior calls handled by the group of agents.

In one implementation KPIs may be product and or service specific. For example if a call center agent handles calls related to communications services and data services one set of KPIs may be determined for communications services and a second set of KPIs may be determined for data services.

Referring now to an exemplary interface C may show values of KPI trends . For example interface C shows exemplary KPI trends A to C that correspond to changes over time in average call length A percentage of resolved calls B and percentage of repeat callers C. The KPIs may be specific to the agents identified in interface C. For example if interface C identifies a particular group of agents average call length trends A may correspond to changes in average call length in prior calls handled by that particular group of agents.

Manager device may determine KPIs and or KPI trends based on data collected by monitoring calls e.g. collected by call monitoring device . In one implementation manager device may determine and or update KPIs and KPI trends in near real time based on call data . For example manager device may update average call length A and average call length trend A based on call length A of the current call.

As previously described with respect to one possible action that may be implemented via manager device is to join a call B. For example if session management is performed to establish a call to the agent e.g. agent device in the session settings may be adjusted so that manager device is included in the session and manager device can be used to listen to and or speak during the call.

As shown in an exemplary interface D may present additional call information related to the call. Interface D may present additional call information when action B to join a call is selected. For example manager device may present a call transcript A a list of actions taken by the agent with respect to the call B and or additional call data C that might assist the user of manager device when joining the call. Additional call data C may include for example recommendations training materials that are generated based on the KPIs and or other data to improve the agent s performance. Call transcript A may be generated based on performing speech analytics when monitoring the call e.g. by monitoring device . In another example call transcript A may include a recording of one or more portions of the call. The portions that are recorded and or transcribed may correspond to portions of the call identified e.g. based on speech analytics to be problematic. For example portions of the call associated with frustration by the caller and or agent may be automatically identified transcribed and or recorded. These sections of the call may be presented to the agent to improve training by identifying mistakes made by the agent that may have led to an alert. For example if the call length A is too long the stored portions may identify times when the agent spoke too slowly and or spoke too much.

Actions taken by the agent with respect to the call B and or additional call data C may be populated based on input provided by the agent e.g. via agent device in . In another example actions taken by the agent with respect to the call B and or additional call data C may be determined from other devices. For example actions taken by the agent with respect to the call B and or additional call data C may reflect changes to the callers account and or scheduled technical support visits as determined from backend devices in .

As shown in an exemplary interface G may provide information regarding multiple agents. For example interface G may present agent data and agent data such as to present images A of the different agents. Interface G may further present agent status data and associated with the different agents e.g. to provide an indication A of whether one of the agents is available to handle an incoming call . Interface G may also present caller data and and call measurements and for calls being handled by the different agents. Interface G may also present alerts and or notifications and . For example interface G may present data regarding different alerts and or notifications and associated with different users.

In one implementation interface G may graphically distinguish the agents. For example data in interface G may graphically identify e.g. visually highlight an agent associated with an alert notification . For example agent data regarding the agent associated with a particular alert may be presented in a particular color brightness and or position within interface G.

In one implementation interface G may identify agents grouped into a virtual team as opposed to a group of agents . A user or other person e.g. a supervisor may group various individual agents in one or more virtual teams. In another example two or more agents may be dynamically grouped into a virtual team based on one or more factors. For example agents may be grouped into a virtual team based on function e.g. retention agents vs. sales agents performance e.g. low performing agents vs. high performing agents shifts e.g. daytime agents versus evening agents . The virtual teams may be updated periodically e.g. each minute each hour each day etc. or may be dynamically generated updated based on a triggering event e.g. one or more KPIs for a group fails to satisfy a threshold .

As a result KPIs and alerts are also aggregated at the level of these virtual teams in a similar way to how they would show up for an individual. This view help a user of manager device to more effectively manage a team of agents. Example of aggregate KPI at a team level may include for example average break time total received qualified calls average team Close Rate etc. Example of collective alerts at a virtual team level may include a quantity of ongoing disconnect calls a quantity of customer escalation requests etc.

Various actions enabled through manager device may be implemented at a virtual team level. For example a user may send e.g. broadcast a notification to every member of a virtual team e mail the virtual team members record calls of the virtual team members bookmark calls of the virtual team members etc.

As shown in an exemplary interface H may show different KPI values for different agents e.g. the agents identified in . For example interface H may show an average call length A and A for the different agents percentages of calls successfully resolved by the different agents B and B and percentage of repeat callers C and C for the different agents.

In one example interface H may visually rank and or distinguish the different agents based on the KPIs. For example interface H may present information regarding agents that have higher KPI measurements e.g. long average call times relatively higher on or on a left portion of interface H when rendered. In another example interface H may visually distinguish an agent e.g. showing agent data in a different color brightness and or position when a KPI associated with the agent triggers an alert such as when an average call length A or percentage of repeat callers C exceeds a threshold value or when a percentage of calls successfully resolved by the different agents B does not satisfy a threshold value. Continuing with this example interface H may receive an input from a user selecting one of the KPIs and may visually rank the agents based on the selected KPI . For example if a user selects call length A interface H may sort the agents from highest to lowest current call length e.g. identifying agents that may need immediate assistance .

In the particular arrangement and number of data in interface are illustrated with simplicity for purpose of illustration. In practice interface may include additional fewer and or different data. Furthermore functions described as being performed by a component in interface may be performed by a different component and or by multiple components in interface .

Bus may permit communication among the components of device . Processing unit may include one or more processors or microprocessors that interpret and execute instructions. In other implementations processing unit may be implemented as or include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or the like.

Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processing unit a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processing unit and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive for storing information and or instructions.

Input device may include a device that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a pen a microphone one or more biometric mechanisms and the like. Output device may include a device that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with other devices such as other devices of environment . In one implementation communication interface may support short range wireless network communications e.g. via Bluetooth protocols . In other implementations communication interface may support other wired or wireless network communications.

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may include a non transitory tangible memory device. A memory device may be implemented within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or read into memory from another device via communication interface . The software instructions stored in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than those depicted in . As an example in some implementations a display may not be included in device . In these situations device may be a headless device that does not include input device . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Display may provide visual information to the user. In one implementation an upgrade client installed on manager device may show the information via a graphical user interface GUI . Headset jack may include a plug into which one may attach speaker wires e.g. headphone wires so that electric signals from manager device can drive the speakers to which the speaker wires run from headset jack .

Front camera may enable the user to view capture store and process images of a subject in at front of manager device . Notification indicator may include a light emitting diode LED or another type of light source that blinks or turns on to indicate an incoming message e.g. a text message email or call .

Power sleep volume key may allow the user to place manager device into a power savings e.g. sleep mode . If manager device is already in the power savings mode triggering power sleep volume key may manager device into an active mode. In this particular implementation power sleep volume may also be used to increase or decrease speaker volume.

USB Power port may allow power to be received by manager device either from an adapter e.g. an alternating current AC to direct current DC converter or from another device e.g. computer . HDMI connector may allow manager device to output HDMI signals.

Charging status indicator may include a lamp or an LED for indicating that manager device is being charged e.g. charging status indicator may blink or light up . Speakers may provide audible information from manager device to a user viewer of manager device .

Rear camera may enable the user to view capture store and or process images of a subject at the back of manager device . Flash may include a lamp or an LED for providing light for rear camera . Housing may provide a casing for components of manager device and may protect the components from outside elements.

Although show exemplary components of manager device in other implementations manager device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than those depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of manager device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of manager device .

Call monitoring module may determine call data regarding a call between call center and caller device . For example call monitoring module may determine agent device and caller device associated with a call and may determine when the call began. Call monitoring module may further determine whether the call has been handled by multiple agents e.g. by determining whether a different agent that have been previously included in a session carrying the call . Call monitoring module may further include hardware software to determine data regarding a call such as to monitor a status of a session carrying the call. For example monitoring module may determine a length of a call based on the length that a corresponding session is active. In another example call monitoring module may interact with call distribution device to receive information regarding the distribution of calls e.g. receive a notification when a call is distributed to a particular agent device .

Data access module may acquire information related to the call. For example data access module may include one or more APIs to access information regarding the caller and or agent from backend devices . In another example data access module may interact with call agent device and or caller device to receive information regarding a call such as notes inputted by an agent via the particular agent device .

Continuing with call monitoring device may include speech analytics module . For example speech analytics module may determine some of the words used during the call and process these spoken words to identify call type B. In another example speech analytics module may evaluate the words from the call and or other aspects of the call e.g. the volume i.e. loudness of the speakers the numbers of words spoken the number and duration of pauses etc. to determine the context of the call e.g. whether the call is a request for technical support or is related to a potential sale . Speech analytics module may analyze words and attributes of the call to determine a mood of the agent and or the caller e.g. to determine whether the caller has used language during the call indicating dissatisfaction with the agent .

As further shown in a KPI measurement module may use information received from call monitoring module data access module and or speech analytics module to determine quality measurements regarding the performance of the agent on the call or in a group of calls. For example KPI measurement module may determine information regarding the call e.g. a start time and may use this information to determine KPI statistics about the call such as a current call length. In another example KPI measurement module may acquire store information regarding prior calls associated with the agent and or call and may use this information to determine other types of KPIs such as average KPI values for the historical call e.g. an average call length for the prior calls and or trends in the KPIs e.g. changes in the KPIs . In another example KPI measurement module may update the KPIs in real time to reflect a current call such as to modify an average call length to reflect the length of a current call.

In one implementation KPI measurement module may measure KPIS associated with agents grouped into a virtual team as opposed to a group of agents . A user or other person e.g. a supervisor may group various individual agents in one or more virtual teams. In another example two or more agents may be dynamically grouped into a virtual team based on one or more factors. For example agents may be grouped into a virtual team based on function e.g. retention agents vs. sales agents performance e.g. low performing agents vs. high performing agents shifts e.g. daytime agents versus evening agents . The virtual teams may be updated periodically e.g. each minute each hour each day etc. or may be dynamically generated updated based on a triggering event e.g. one or more KPIs for a group fails to satisfy a threshold .

KPI measurement module may aggregate KPIs and alerts at the level of these virtual teams in a similar way to how they would show up for an individual. This view help a user of manager device to more effectively manage a team of agents. Example of aggregate KPI at a team level may include for example average break time total received qualified calls average team Close Rate etc. Example of collective alerts at a virtual team level may include ongoing disconnect calls customer escalation request etc.

Rule definition module may enable a user to define the KPIs. For example rule definition module may provide an interface to receive information from a user to define one or more KPIs and data used to define the KPIs. Rule definition module may further allow a user to define desired values for the KPI and alert conditions e.g. KPI values associated with alert conditions that may cause an agent to be graphically flagged or distinguished in interface as potentially needing a manager s assistance with a caller .

Reporting module may output data collected from monitoring the calls. For example reporting module may provide data to manager device for generating interface . In one implementation reporting module may auto populate coaching forms with data that a user of manager device may use to record observations of agent performance for storage in a central coaching database to be used for coaching or mentoring purposes. For example if an agent is associated with one or more calls that exceed a desired call length reporting module may generate coaching forms that indicate the extent that the agent is over the desired call length and may provide suggestions for improving performance. Reporting module may store information from the current call and or historical calls such as information identifying calls that exceeds a threshold time length and other information regarding the call such as to identify the callers and or the nature of the calls.

Reporting module may provide various actions at a virtual team level. For example a user may send e.g. broadcast a notification to every member of a virtual team e mail the virtual team members record calls of the virtual team members bookmark calls of the virtual team members etc.

Although shows exemplary components of call monitoring device in other implementations call monitoring device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than those depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of call monitoring device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of call monitoring device .

As shown in process may include detecting a call between a caller and an agent block . For example monitoring device may receive a message from call distribution device a particular agent device and or a particular caller device providing notification of the call. In addition or alternatively information associated with the call may be routed between the particular agent device and the particular caller device via monitoring device . For example monitoring device may be included in a session carrying the call between the particular agent device and the particular caller device .

Continuing with process may also include collecting data regarding the call block . Call monitoring device may receive information that is collected when initiating the call e.g. from call distribution device . For example call distribution device may include an IVR system that asks the caller one or more questions to determine data associated with the call e.g. to identify the caller and or a purpose for the call and monitoring device may receive data associated with the caller s answers to the questions.

In another example monitoring device may collect information regarding the agent and or caller. For example monitoring device may interface with backend devices e.g. via one or more APIs to collect information regarding the caller and or the agent. The information about the caller and or the agent may include for example data regarding prior calls such as measurements regarding the prior calls e.g. lengths of the prior calls and or information regarding the nature and results of the calls e.g. information identifying whether the prior calls related to technical support or sales whether additional calls were needed to resolve issues whether the prior calls where successful etc. .

As shown in process may further include monitoring the call block and calculating one or more KPIs block . For example call monitoring device may monitor a session associated with the call to determine a length or other attributes associated with the call. In another example call monitoring device may perform speech analytics to identify words used during the call and or other attributes of the conversation between the caller and the agent. In another example call monitoring device may interface with agent device to receive information inputted by the agent such as notes taken by the agent and or information regarding actions taken by the agent with respect to the call. In block call monitoring device may use data collected from monitoring the call to determine and or update one or more KPIs. For example call monitoring device may determine a KPI value associated with the current call e.g. a number of words spoken by the agent per unit of time and update another KPI determined using data from prior calls e.g. an average number of words spoken by the agent per unit of time during the prior calls . In this way call monitoring device may measure the agent s performance during a current call against the agent s performance in prior calls in order to better identify improvements regressions in the agent s performance.

Continuing with process may further include determining if the KPI value triggers an alert block . For example an alert may be triggered if the KPI has a certain value e.g. speech analytics shows that the caller is becoming frustrated the agent does not successfully resolve the call the caller calls back etc. or if the KPI does not satisfy a desired value or range of values e.g. the call length is too long more than a threshold number of the agent s calls are unsuccessful etc. . In one implementation the desired value and or range of values associated with a KPI are determined based on prior calls associated with the caller and or agent. For example the call length of a current call may be compared to an average length of prior calls associated with the agent and or caller. In this way call monitoring device may identify that a particular agent e.g. a skilled agent that usually resolves calls relatively quickly is potentially having difficulty on the call when the length of the current call is longer than an average length of other calls handled by the agent even if the current call length is relatively short.

If the KPI does not trigger an alert block No call monitoring device may present information regarding the call and the KPI value block . Otherwise if the KPI triggers an alert block Yes call monitoring device may present information regarding the call the KPI value and the alert block . For example call monitoring device may provide information to manager device that that enables manager device to provide an interface that includes agent status data caller data call data and alerts . Similarly 

In one implementation call monitoring device may auto populate coaching forms with data that a user of manager device may use to record observations of agent performance for storage in a central coaching database during blocks or . For example if an agent is associated with one or more calls that exceed a desired call length call monitoring device may generate coaching forms that indicate the extent that the agent is over the desired call length and may provide suggestions for improving performance. Reporting module may store to the coaching forms information from the current call and or historical calls such as information identifying calls that exceeds a threshold time length and other information regarding the call such as to identify the callers and or the nature of the calls.

Continuing with process may further include connecting manager device to the call when the alert is triggered block . For example if the call is being handled via a data and or communications session between agent device and caller device monitoring device may forward instructions to cause call distribution device to modify the session setting to include manager device in the session. For example manager device may be automatically added to a session when an alert is triggered e.g. when the one or more KPIs are outside of desired ranges of values . In this example call distribution device may add manager device to the session e.g. agent device continues to be active in the session or manager device may replace agent device in the session e.g. agent device is removed from the session .

In connection with connecting manager device to the call process may further include providing call data to manager device block . For example as described above with respect to interface A presented by manager device may include call data e.g. call length A type of call B and whether the call is a repeat call C and manager device may determine call data based on information received from call monitoring device . In another example described above with respect to interface D presented by manager device may include additional call data e.g. call transcript A information identifying actions taken by the agent B and additional call data C and manager device may determine additional call data based on information received from call monitoring device .

Thus in the systems and methods described herein call center agents may be monitored and information from monitoring the call center agents may be presented by a portable manager device . The information from monitoring the call center agents may include various KPIs that enable a user of manager device to easily assess the performance of a group of call center agents. The KPIs may be updated in near real time based on monitoring pending calls. Furthermore information regarding the call center agents may be graphically organized by manager device so that call centers agents who may need assistance e.g. an agent with one or KPI values that are outside of desired parameters may be easily identified. Manager device may request to join a call e.g. based on a user input or manager device may be automatically added to a call associated with an agent identified as possibly needing assistance. For example a setting for a session associated with the call may be modified to include manager device in the session.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It should however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

Also while a series of blocks has been described with respect to process in the order of the blocks in process may be modified in other implementations to include additional fewer and or different blocks. Further non dependent blocks in processes may be performed in parallel.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

It will be apparent that different aspects of the description provided above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of these aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement these aspects based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

