---

title: Twin-axial wire antenna
abstract: An antenna includes a polymer coating having a VLF/LF element and an HF/VHF element embedded therein. A blocking choke is interposed between the VLF/LF element and the antenna feed to block HF/VHF signals. Small chokes are regularly positioned on the VLF/LF element to eliminate resonances caused by mutual capacitance between the elements. Reactive loads are positioned in said HF/VHF element at regular intervals for optimizing performance of the antenna in the HF/VHF radio bands. In further embodiments the antenna is provided as a floating antenna with the elements helically arranged therein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553366&OS=09553366&RS=09553366
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09553366
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140519
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention is directed to a linear antenna for dual frequencies and a method for designing such an antenna and more particularly to a twin axial floating antenna that can be deployed from a vessel.

Previous work on buoyant cable antenna BCA improvements have led to antennas that have improved performance in the HF band e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 868 833 entitled Ultra wideband buoyant cable antenna element but this improvement came at the expense of the performance of the antenna in the VLF LF band 10 kHz 200 kHz. This occurred because the methods involved required the use of series capacitive loading along the length of the antenna wire. This creates a high pass filter in the antenna and prevents current flow in the VLF LF bands.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 203 495 entitled Modular VLF LF and HF buoyant cable antenna and method introduces a useful method of including the VLF LF capability back into the antenna. In this patent the VLF LF signals are received on the braid of a piece of coaxial cable that is connected in series with the loaded HF antenna. However this method suffers from two major shortfalls. The first is that the attenuation of the coaxial cable hinders the gain of the HF antenna since HF signals must pass through the coaxial cable to reach the overall antenna feed point. The second is that the overall antenna length increases to over 150 feet long which is undesirable from a mechanical point of view since it affects the speed depth curves and hinders the submarine s operations when using the antenna.

It is a first object of the present invention to provide an antenna capable of operating in both HF VHF and VLF LF bands 

Another object is to provide such an antenna having good performance in the HF band while not sacrificing performance in the VLF band and

Yet another object is to provide an antenna having a shorter length than known with series arrangements.

Accordingly there is provided an antenna that includes a polymer coating having a VLF LF element and an HF VHF element embedded therein. A blocking choke is interposed between the VLF LF element and the antenna feed to block HF VHF signals. Small chokes are regularly positioned on the VLF LF element to suppress resonances in the HF VHF bands caused by mutual capacitance between the elements. Reactive loads are positioned in said HF VHF element at regular intervals for optimizing performance of the antenna in the HF VHF radio bands. In further embodiments the antenna is provided as a floating antenna with the elements helically arranged therein.

This invention combines the functionality of the two legacy buoyant cable antenna elements into a single antenna element while also providing for improved gain in the high frequency HF between 3 MHz and 30 MHz and very high frequency VHF between 30 MHz and 300 kHz radio bands to support improved communications for submerged submarines.

An embodiment shown in overcomes limitations found in the prior art by utilizing a twin axial geometry. As shown in this antenna employs two center conductors a VLF conductor and an HF conductor instead of one in the prior art. The antenna has a cylindrical geometry with a circular cross section of constant diameter d maintained over the length l of the antenna. Conductors and are embedded in a body made from any polymer foam. The polymer foam should be positively buoyant in seawater electrically insulating chemical resistant and durable in normal seawater temperatures. Many different polymer foams are suitable for this purpose.

Antenna conductors and are embedded into body and arranged so that their centroid is coincident with the axis of the antenna over its entire length. The conductors and are therefore positioned on either side of the center of antenna body as shown in . The conductors and can be arranged parallel to one another or can be positioned helically at a constant pitch angle. In either embodiment the spacing between the conductors b is constant along the entire length of the antenna . In one embodiment the HF conductor and the VLF conductor each have the same gauge and are made from stranded conductors. In alternate embodiments the two conductors and can be of differing gauges and can be either stranded or solid. In a prototype both conductors were made from 22 solid copper wire arranged parallel to each other within a body .

Each of the conductors and carries signals from a separate portion of the radio spectrum. An antenna feed is located at the proximate end of each conductor and is electrically joined to radio equipment not shown . The VLF conductor carries VLF LF signals. At its distal end VLF conductor connects to environmental ocean water by means of a grounding ring . Grounding ring is a short circuit termination electrically connected to environmental water which is assumed to be at ground potential. The HF conductor carries signals in the HF VHF band and terminates at its distal end in an open circuit termination prior to the end of the antenna . In another embodiment open circuit termination can terminate at the end of the antenna . Open circuit termination cannot electrically connect to grounding ring . This is necessary for maximum gain in the HF band.

To provide optimal HF VHF performance the HF conductor is provided with a reactive load at regular intervals along its length dz. Reactive load can be made from a single capacitor a single capacitor and a single inductor connected in parallel or a combination of these types of reactive loads. Reactive loads are inserted in series with the HF conductor . In some embodiments parallel capacitor inductor reactive loads can be used for one portion of the HF conductor while the remainder of the HF conductor uses capacitors alone. The capacitor and inductor are selected so as to optimize the performance of the antenna in the HF and VHF bands. In the prototype single capacitors having a capacitance of 680 pF were used with the distance between reactive loads dz being 1 meter apart.

The VLF conductor connects to the HF conductor at antenna feed through a blocking choke . Blocking choke is preferably a ferrite core shielded inductor chosen to keep applied signals in the HF and VHF bands from passing into the VLF LF conductor .

Due to the mutual capacitance between the VLF conductor and HF conductor HF and VHF signals can couple from the HF conductor onto the VLF conductor and cause VLF conductor to resonate. The resonance of the VLF conductor can affect the gain and impedance of the HF conductor detrimentally. This resonance is suppressed by electrically interrupting the VLF conductor at regular intervals by providing small chokes at locations in conductor . Small choke is chosen so that its impedance is high enough to stop the flow of current on the VLF conductor but no so high as to impede the flow of current in the VLF LF bands. The spacing between adjacent small chokes dz was chosen to be smaller than one half of the shortest wavelength in the band or bands of operation of the HF conductor . In this way the segments of the VLF conductor interconnecting chokes are sub resonant. In the prototype blocking choke had a value of 22 H and small chokes all had a value of 1 H.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modification and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

