---

title: Ranking custom search results
abstract: A system searches a first search index based on a search query to obtain first search results and searches a second search index based on the search query to obtain second search results. The system further ranks the first search results using a first ranking algorithm and one or more first ranking parameters to produce ranked first search results, and ranks the second search results using a second ranking algorithm and one or more second ranking parameters to produce second search results, where the one or more first ranking parameters are different than the one or more second ranking parameters and where the one or more second ranking parameters include at least one of previous user feedback associated with custom content that corresponds to the second search index, annotations of the custom content provided by a user, or usage patterns associated with users previously accessing and searching the custom content. The system also provides the ranked first and second search results to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342609&OS=09342609&RS=09342609
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09342609
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140910
---
The World Wide Web web contains a vast amount of information. Locating a desired portion of the information however can be challenging. This problem is compounded because the amount of information on the web and the number of new users inexperienced at web searching are growing rapidly. Search engines assist users in locating desired portions of this information by cataloging web pages. Typically in response to a user s request the search engine returns references to documents relevant to the request.

A web crawler is typically used to find and retrieve documents e.g. web pages on the web. To retrieve a document from the web the web crawler sends a request to for example a web server for a document downloads the entire document and then provides the document to an indexer. The indexer typically takes the text of the crawled document extracts individual terms from the text and sorts those terms e.g. alphabetically into a search index. The web crawler and indexer repeat this process as the web crawler crawls documents across the web. Each entry in the search index contains a term stored in association with a list of documents in which the term appears and the location within the document s text where the term appears. The search index thus permits rapid access to documents that contain terms that match search terms of a user supplied search query. To improve search performance the indexer typically ignores common words called stop words e.g. the is on or of how why etc. when creating or updating the search index. Existing indexers create a single search index that contains terms extracted from all documents crawled on the web.

Generally search engines may base their determination of the user s interest on search terms called a search query entered by the user. The goal of the search engine is to identify links to high quality relevant results e.g. web pages based on the search query using the search index. Typically the search engine accomplishes this by matching the terms in the search query to terms contained in the search index and retrieving a list of documents associated with each matching term in the search index. Documents that contain the user s search terms are considered hits and are returned to the user. The hits returned by the search engine may be ranked among one another by the search engine based on some measure of the quality and or relevancy of the hits. A basic technique for sorting the search hits relies on the degree with which the search query matches the hits. For example documents that contain every term of the search query or that contain multiple occurrences of the terms in the search query may be deemed more relevant than documents that contain less than every term of the search query or a single occurrence of a term in the search query and therefore may be more highly ranked by the search engine.

According to one aspect a method may include searching a first search index based on a search query to obtain first search results and searching a second search index based on the search query to obtain second search results. The method may further include ranking the first search results using a first ranking algorithm and one or more first ranking parameters to produce ranked first search results and ranking the second search results using a second ranking algorithm and one or more second ranking parameters to produce ranked second search results where the one or more first ranking parameters are different than the one or more second ranking parameters. The method may also include providing the ranked first and second search results to a user.

According to another aspect a method may include uploading custom content from a first user via an application programming interface and indexing the uploaded custom content to produce a custom search index. The method may further include searching the custom content using the custom search index based on a search query received from a second user to obtain custom search results and ranking the custom search results based on at least one of previous user feedback associated with the custom content annotations of the custom content provided by the first user or usage patterns associated with other accessing and searching the custom content.

According to a further aspect a method may include receiving data from a first user designating custom content and indexing the designated custom content to produce a custom search index. The method may further include searching the custom content using the custom search index based on a search query received from a second user to obtain custom search results and ranking the custom search results based on at least one of previous user feedback associated with the custom content annotations of the custom content provided by the first user or usage patterns associated with users accessing and searching the custom content.

According to an additional aspect a method may include obtaining custom content where obtaining the custom content comprises at least one of uploading custom content from a first user via an application programming interface or receiving data from a first user designating the custom content. The method may further include searching the custom content based on a search query received from a second user to obtain custom search results and obtaining previous user feedback associated with the custom content. The method may also include ranking the custom search results based on the previous user feedback to produce ranked custom search results.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Implementations described herein may permit a user to create their own corpora of customized content that may be accessed and searched by other users via a content searching service such as for example Google Search. A content searching system may crawl the web to retrieve web content and then index the retrieved web content to create a web search index. A user may upload or otherwise identify custom content to the content searching system which may then index the custom content to create a custom search index that is different than the web search index. Each user that uploads or identifies custom content may also annotate the custom content to provide explicit indicators of the relative value of different portions of the custom content. Other users may also upload their own custom content to the content searching system which may then be indexed to create different respective custom search indexes that are different from the web search index and other custom search indexes. Searching of custom content using the different custom search indexes may then be selectively permitted by users who may or may not have to be authenticated to the custom content that they wish to access e.g. search . For example the custom search index may store information different from the information stored by the web search index. In one implementation the custom search index may store a subset of the information stored in the web search index. In this case it may be possible for the custom search index to store pointers to information in the web search index. Alternatively or additionally the custom search index may store information that is not present in the web search index. Also the custom search index may be considered different from the web search index in the sense that the custom search index may be searchable separate from the web search index.

Results of a search of custom content using a custom search index may be ranked or re ranked based on the annotations provided by the uploading user based on usage patterns associated with users who have previously accessed the custom content or based on explicit user feedback provided by users who have previously accessed the custom content. The ranked re ranked custom content search results may be provided in ranked order to the searching user.

A document as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include any machine readable and machine storable work product. A document may include for example an e mail a website a business listing a file a combination of files one or more files with embedded links to other files a news group posting a blog a video an image a web advertisement a digital map etc. In the context of the Internet a common document is a web page. Documents often include textual information and may include embedded information such as meta information images hyperlinks etc. and or embedded instructions such as Javascript etc. . Content as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include data that may or may not be in document form. Examples of content may include data associated with a document or data in a database. Custom content as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include content that has been uploaded by a user for indexing and or content identified by a user for indexing. A user as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include one or more people e.g. a person a group of people that may have some relationship e.g. people associated with a business or organization or a group of people with no formal relationship . A link as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include any reference to from a document from to another document or another part of the same document. A site as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include a group of documents hosted by any type of entity. A site may include a group of documents under common control such as a group of documents associated with an organization a domain name a host name or a set of documents created by the same person or group of persons. A site may also include a group of documents about a particular topic a group of documents in a particular language a group of documents hosted in a particular country or a group of documents written in a particular writing style.

As further shown in custom content may also be obtained. Custom content may include content uploaded by a user content designated by the user as being part of its custom content e.g. user designates one or more websites or web pages to be included in the user s custom content web content that is available only to selected subscribers via subscription or types of content that may be aggregated and indexed separately from web search index e.g. the user may designate websites or web pages that contain content about a selected topic as being included in the user s custom content . An indexer not shown may index the obtained custom content to create a custom search index that may be different from web search index e.g. custom search index may include information different from web search index and or custom search index may be searchable separate from web search index . The indexer may take the full text or other data from custom content extract individual terms or other data from custom content and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into custom search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data images videos etc. Each entry in custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a location within custom content where the term or other data appears. Custom search index may subsequently be used to search for specific content of custom content that matches a search query . Custom search index may include multiple custom search indexes not shown each being associated with a different corpus of custom content.

Search engine s may receive search query and may selectively search either web search index or custom search index or multiple different custom search indexes or may search both of web search index and custom search index or other different custom search indexes using search query . A search of web search index by search engine s may return web search results that match search query . A search of custom search index by search engine s may return custom search results that match search query . A web ranking algorithm may rank or re rank web search results to produce ranked web search results . Web ranking algorithm may include any existing ranking algorithm used to order search results.

A custom content ranking algorithm may rank or re rank custom search results to produce ranked custom search results . Custom content ranking algorithm may in some implementations rank or re rank custom search results based on selected ranking parameters . Selected ranking parameters may include different identified parameters to be used by custom content ranking algorithm when ranking re ranking custom search results . Ranking parameters may for example be selected by the user that uploaded or identified custom content . Such different parameters may include but are not limited to annotations by the user that uploaded or identified custom content that indicate the relative importance or value of different portions of custom content usage patterns of users who have accessed custom content or other custom content not shown or user feedback provided by users who have searched custom content and have provided indications of their opinion of the quality of custom content returned to them as the result of the search. Custom content ranking algorithm may use the selected ranking parameters when ranking re ranking custom search results . Custom content ranking algorithm may include a different ranking algorithm than web ranking algorithm .

Clients may include client entities. A client entity may be defined as a device such as a personal computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a lap top or another type of computation or communication device a thread or process running on one of these devices and or an object executable by one of these devices. Clients may implement a browser for browsing documents stored data server s . Clients may also use the browser for accessing content searching system to search documents e.g. web content associated with data server s and or custom content as described further below.

Data server s may store or maintain documents that may be browsed by clients or may be crawled by content searching system . Such documents may include data related to published news stories products images user groups geographic areas or any other type of data. For example data server s may store or maintain news stories from any type of news source such as for example the Washington Post the New York Times Time magazine or Newsweek. As another example server s may store or maintain data related to specific products such as product data provided by one or more product manufacturers. As yet another example server s may store or maintain data related to other types of web documents such as pages of web sites e.g. web content .

Content searching system may include one or more hardware and or software components that access fetch index search and or maintain general web documents and or custom content documents. Content searching system may implement a data aggregation service by crawling a corpus of documents e.g. web pages hosted on data server s indexing the documents and storing information associated with these documents in a repository of crawled documents. The aggregation service may be implemented in other ways such as by agreement with the operator s of data server s to distribute their documents via the data aggregation service.

While content searching system and server s are shown as separate entities it may be possible for content searching system to perform one or more of the functions of one or more of servers and vice versa. For example it may be possible for content searching system and one or more of servers to be implemented as a single entity. It may also be possible for a single one of content searching system or server s to be implemented as two or more separate and possibly distributed devices.

Network may include one or more networks of any type including a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a Public Land Mobile Network PLMN an intranet the Internet or a combination of networks. The PLMN s may further include a packet switched sub network such as for example General Packet Radio Service GPRS Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD or Mobile IP sub network. Clients content searching system and server s may connect to network via wired and or wireless connections.

Web search unit may crawl documents e.g. containing web content stored at data server s index the crawled documents to create a web search index and search the crawled documents using the web search index. Custom content search unit may obtain custom content such as for example content uploaded from users content obtained from sources that require subscriptions for access to the content and or content on a given topic that may be obtained and aggregated from multiple sources index the content in separate custom search indexes to create multiple different custom search indexes and search the custom content using one or more of the different custom search indexes.

Index database may store a web search index and one or more custom search indexes . Index database may store web search index and the one or more custom search indexes as different data structures that may be searched independently of one another. Alternatively index database may store one or more custom search indexes within the same data structure as web search index in a manner that they may be searched independently of one another. Security unit may authenticate users desiring to upload custom content to custom content search unit and or may authenticate users desiring to search one or more custom content indexes associated with custom content. Security unit may authenticate users by passing authentication tokens to the users which define the custom search indexes that are accessible by a particular user and may contain security keys to permit channel encryption for sensitive information. Security unit may authenticate users and authorize custom content search unit to permit access to selected custom search indexes to the authenticated users.

Accounting unit may establish and modify user access rights may record and report user access to selected custom search indexes may obtain feedback from users accessing given custom search indexes and or may track and control access to given custom search indexes based on whether users have subscribed to the custom search indexes.

Result formatter may return search results obtained from web search unit and custom content search unit in a formatted and organized manner. Result formatter may combine custom content search results together with web content search results in a way that is meaningful to the user e.g. in a hypertext markup language HTML page . Bus and or network may include a communication path such as for example a system bus or a network that permits web search unit custom content search unit security unit accounting unit and result formatter to communicate with one another and with entities on network .

Although shows exemplary components of content searching system in other implementations content searching system may include fewer different or additional components than depicted in . In still other implementations one or more components of content searching system may perform the tasks performed by one or more other components of content searching system .

Web crawler may find and retrieve web content e.g. web pages and provide the retrieved web content to web content indexer . For example web crawler may send a request to a web server for a web document download the entire web document and then provide the web document to web content indexer . Web content indexer may index web content to create web search index . For example web content indexer may take the text or other data of a given crawled document extract individual terms or other data from the text of the document and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically in web search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data images videos etc. Each entry in web search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a list of documents in which the term or other data appears and the location within the document where the term or other data appears. Web search engine may search web search index based on a received search query to match terms of the search query with terms or other data e.g. video images etc. contained in entries in web search index . Web search engine may retrieve a corresponding list of documents from each entry in web search index that matches a term of the search query. The lists of documents retrieved from one or more entries in web search index may be returned as web search results . In one implementation each result of web search results may include a uniform resource locator URL associated with a corresponding search result document and possibly a snippet of content extracted from the corresponding search result document. Web search engine may further rank web search results using web ranking algorithm .

Custom content upload API may receive custom content uploaded from one or more users e.g. one or more authenticated users . The uploaded content may include data in any type of format. In one implementation the uploaded content may include meta data e.g. XML data . The meta data may include content meta data with pointers to actual content. In another implementation custom content upload API may include a translation engine for translating any type or format of uploaded data into a particular type or format of data that can be more easily processed by custom content indexer . Custom content upload API may pass the received custom content to custom content indexer .

Custom content crawler may crawl specific content on the web to retrieve documents that may be indexed in a corresponding custom search index . Custom content crawler may crawl any type of document or database including for example flatfiles binary files etc. For example custom content crawler may crawl available documents on the web containing content directed to a specific topic e.g. dogs football etc. or documents identified by a custom content provider. As another example custom content crawler may crawl documents similar to documents identified by the user as being part of the user s custom content. The user may thus designate content that may be grouped together and searched via the user s custom search index. Custom content crawler may in some implementations need to be authenticated by content providers associated with specific custom content crawled on the web. Custom content crawler may pass the crawled custom content to custom content indexer .

Custom content indexer may index custom content to create custom search index es . For example custom content indexer may take the text or other data of custom content received from a user extract individual terms from the text or other data of custom content and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into a single custom search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data images videos etc. Each entry in a custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with an item of content in which the term or other data appears and a location within the custom content where the term or other data appears.

Custom search engine may search custom search index es based on a received search query to match terms of the search query with terms or other data contained in entries in custom search index es . If custom search index es includes multiple different custom search indexes then custom search engine may search based on the received search query and possibly user authentication selected ones of the different custom search indexes. Custom search engine may retrieve a corresponding list of items of custom content from each entry in custom search index that matches a term of the search query. Custom search engine may rank or re rank using custom content ranking algorithm each item in the list of items of custom content relative to one another to produce an ordered list of items of custom content. The ranked list of items of content retrieved from one or more entries in custom search index may be returned as custom search results . In one implementation each result of custom search results may include a uniform resource locator URL associated with a corresponding search result document and possibly a snippet of content extracted from the corresponding search result document.

Data delivery engine content formatter may receive the search results from custom search engine format the search results into a meaningful data format e.g. into a hypertext markup language HTML document that can be received and displayed by the user e.g. via a web browser . Data deliver engine content formatter may customize the formatting of the search results e.g. the content and visual format of the data received from custom search engine based on individual user preferences or based on the preferences of the custom content provider whose content is being searched.

Each one of custom search indexes through N may include multiple index entries with each entry containing a term or other data stored in association with an item of custom content in which the term or other data appears and a location within the custom content where the term or other data appears. Custom search engine may search custom search index es based on a received search query to match terms of the search query with terms or other data contained in entries in custom search index es .

The exemplary process may begin with obtaining custom content from one or more sources block . For example custom content upload API may upload custom content from one or more users at clients . As another example custom content upload API may upload subscription content from one or more subscription content service providers. As an additional example subscription content from one or more subscription content service providers or content from documents obtained from multiple sources that is related to a same topic may be obtained from custom content crawler of custom content search unit for indexing in respective custom indexes. Alternatively a user at a client may designate a set of documents to be indexed separately as a corpus of custom content. For example a user at a client may designate a set of web sites or web pages from which content may be extracted and indexed in a separate custom search index.

Many different types of custom content may be uploaded and indexed consistent with exemplary embodiments. For example a given custom search index may aggregate and index multiple subscription based web sites. If a user subscribes to a group of subscription based web sites then the user can search content from all of the subscription based web sites simultaneously using a single custom search index. As another example a company may upload all of their company events policies etc. to a custom search index such that only company employees may search the custom search index. As an additional example a company such as for example Netflix may upload custom content to their own custom search index. Netflix can increase traffic to their own web site by building a custom search index of their movie titles. Users may then join a Netflix custom index group and automatically receive movie title search results when they perform a regular web search e.g. a search on google.com . Moreover Netflix could tag new movie releases so that Netflix users can just type the search query new releases in for example the Google search interface and receive newly released movie titles as part of the returned search results. As yet another example a software company such as for example Oracle could upload their knowledge base to their own custom search index and then make this knowledge base available only to licensed users. The knowledge base could include frequently asked questions FAQs documentation troubleshooting tips customer support information bugs etc. As a further example local libraries Amazon.com or Barnes Nobles could create their own custom indexes. Then when a user who enjoys reading books searches a topic e.g. using Google search and when there are books that match that search the books may be returned as results in the search results so that the user may check for pricing and or availability. As yet another example a user could create a custom search index relating to a particular topic by identifying documents e.g. web documents relating to that topic. As another example a user can create a custom search index containing his bookmarks e.g. favorite web pages or sites that can be shared with and or searched by other users.

A selection of one or more ranking parameters associated with the obtained custom content may be received optional block . Ranking parameters may include different parameters to be used by custom search engine when executing custom content ranking algorithm for ranking re ranking custom search results . Ranking parameters may for example be selected by the user that uploaded or identified custom content . Such different parameters may include but are not limited to annotations by the user that uploaded or identified custom content that indicate the relative importance or value of different portions of custom content usage patterns of users who access custom content or other custom content or user feedback provided by users who have accessed custom content and have provided indications of their opinion of the quality of custom content that they have accessed e.g. searched . illustrates an exemplary user interface that may be used by a user that uploaded or identified custom content to select one or more parameters to be used when ranking search results obtained from searching the user s custom content. As shown in user interface may display ranking parameters that may be selected by the user e.g. by clicking on a corresponding check box . In the exemplary implementation shown in the user interface of ranking parameters may include annotations usage patterns user feedback and user feedback ratings.

Annotations associated with the obtained custom content may be received optional block . Each user that uploads or identifies custom content may annotate one or more portions of the custom content to indicate the relative value or importance of a respective portion of custom content. Each annotation s may be stored in association with a corresponding portion of custom content as shown in .

Access control data associated with the obtained custom content may be received optional block . Access control data may include data used for authenticating users who may supply additional custom content to a given custom search index or for authenticating users who may access and search custom content associated with a given custom search index. For example the access control data may include a log in identifier and a password for a respective user. Authentication unit may store the received access control data for use in subsequent user authentication. Each custom search index through N may or may not have access control data associated with it. Thus some of custom search indexes through N may be restricted to authenticated users e.g. subscribing users while others may not e.g. available to non subscribing users . The received access control data may also be associated with other custom content. Therefore a given user may subscribe to or have an account that is associated with N different custom search indexes thus permitting the given user to search those indexes automatically for each of the user s searches. The custom content may be indexed to produce a custom search index block .

For example custom content indexer may take custom content received from an authenticated user e.g. the custom content provider extract individual terms or other data from custom content and sort those terms e.g. alphabetically into a custom search index . Each entry in a custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with an item of content in which the term or other data appears and a location within the custom content where the term or other data appears. Custom search index may be stored in index database .

The web may be crawled to obtain web content optional block . For example web crawler may find and retrieve web content e.g. from web documents and hand the retrieved web content off to web content indexer . Web crawler may send a request to a web server for a web page download the entire web page and then hand the web page off to web content indexer .

The obtained web content may then be indexed to produce a web search index optional block . Web content indexer may index received web content to create web search index . For example web content indexer may take the text or other data of a given crawled document extract individual terms or other data from the document and sort those terms or other e.g. alphabetically into web search index . Each entry in web search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a list of documents in which the term or other data appears and the location within the document s text where the term or other data appears. Web search index may be stored in index database .

The exemplary process may begin with the receipt of a request from a user requesting access to specific custom content block . For example the access request may include a log in identifier and password supplied by the user. As shown in a user at a client may select a custom content search tab contained in a search document displayed by the user s browser. Fields such as for example a custom content identifier field a custom content log in field and a custom content password field may then be displayed in search document . The user may then enter appropriate data into fields and to authenticate himself as having a right to access the desired custom content. As further shown in the user at client may select a web custom content search tab . The user may enter appropriate data into fields and to search a specific custom search index and the web search index. Any custom content identifier data entered into custom content identifier field may be associated with one or more custom search indexes. For example a single given custom content identifier may be associated with and allow access to several different custom search indexes. In another implementation a given custom content log in and custom content password may be implicitly associated with one or more custom search indexes. In this implementation the user does not have to explicitly identify the custom content that he desires to access since the user s log in and password has already been associated with one or more custom search indexes. In other implementations the user may enter multiple different custom content identifiers to select multiple custom search indexes to search. In some implementations in which the custom content does not require authentication e.g. is available to non subscribers mere selection of specific custom content without user authentication may only be required for access to the specific custom content.

The requesting user may then be authenticated optional block . Authentication unit may authenticate the user using previously received access control data. For example authentication unit may authenticate the user using the log in identifier and password supplied by the user. If authentication unit authenticates the user then the exemplary process may continue with block . If authentication unit does not authenticate the user then the user will be denied access to the requested custom content. Authentication of the user may occur at the time at which the user requests access to specific custom content or the authentication may have occurred earlier. For example a user may log in at the time the user first accesses search document prior to the user requesting access to specific custom content. For some of the specific custom content associated with a respective custom search index es user authentication may not be required and thus block may be skipped.

A search query may be received from the user block . Custom search engine may receive a search query from a user at a client via network . For example as shown in a user may enter search terms of a search query into a search document displayed by the user s browser. One or more custom search indexes associated with the specific custom content that the user requested access to e.g. corresponding to the custom content identifier s supplied by the user may be searched based on the received search query block . Custom search engine may search one or more custom search indexes through N associated with the specific custom content to which the user requested access to obtain custom search results .

Selected ranking parameters associated with the custom content being searched may be obtained block . The ranking parameters may have been selected by the user that uploaded or identified the custom content being searched as described above with respect to . The ranking parameters may include but are not limited to annotations by the user that uploaded or identified custom content that indicate the relative importance or value of different portions of the custom content being searched usage patterns of users who have accessed the custom content being searched or other custom content not currently being searched or user feedback provided by other users who have accessed the same custom content and have provided indications of their opinion of the quality of the custom content that they have accessed.

The results of the search of the custom search index es may then be ranked or re ranked based on the obtained ranking parameters block . Custom search engine may use custom content ranking algorithm and the obtained ranking parameters to rank or re rank the results of the search of the custom search index es . For example annotations associated with the custom content that corresponds to the searched custom search index es may be used by custom content ranking algorithm to rank higher those custom search results with annotations indicating a higher importance than other custom search results with annotations indicating a lower importance.

As another example user feedback provided by other users who have previously searched the same custom content and have provided indications of their opinion of the quality of the custom content returned to them as the result of a search may be used by custom ranking algorithm to rank the custom search results. For example those custom search results having a more positive user feedback may be ranked higher than other custom search results having less positive user feedback. illustrates one exemplary manner in which users accessing custom content may provide feedback that can be used in ranking the results of subsequent searches of the custom content. As shown in a search result document may be provided to a user searching a specific corpora of custom content that includes custom search results that match the user s search query. In addition to custom search results document may include a custom content rating window that permits the user to rate the content contained in custom search results . Window may include several different ratings e.g. from poor to excellent that the user may select to rate the content of custom search results .

As a further example usage patterns associated with users who have accessed the custom content being searched or with other custom content not being searched may be used by custom ranking algorithm to rank the custom search results. For example portions of custom content selected and accessed more frequently from the custom search results may be ranked higher than other portions of custom content selected and accessed less frequently. graphically illustrates ranking of custom search results based on usage patterns. As shown in multiple users through M may access respective custom content through M. The accessed custom content may include the same corpus of custom content or different corpora of custom content i.e. custom content having different custom search indexes . Subscription tracker may implement usage tracking to track the usage of each corpora of custom content accessed by a user.

The results of usage tracking may be used by custom content ranking algorithm to rank or re rank custom search results. As shown in custom search engine not shown may return a set of custom search results . Custom content ranking function may based on usage tracking rank or re rank custom search results in a rank order to produce ranked custom search results .

Ranked results of the search of the custom search index es may be provided to the user block . Data delivery engine content formatter may format ranked custom search results received from custom search engine and provide the formatted custom search results to a client associated with the authenticated user via network .

Web search index may also be searched based on the search query optional block . Web search engine may search web search index based on the search query to return web search results . The results of the search of web search index may be provided to the user optional block . Result formatter may combine the formatted custom search results received from data delivery engine content formatter together with web search results and provide the combined results to a client associated with the authenticated user via network . For example as shown in ranked custom search results may be provided to the authenticated user via a search result document along with web search results . As depicted in custom search results may be displayed prominently e.g. at the top of the search results or highlighted with respect to web search results .

Implementations described herein provide illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. For example while series of acts have been described with regard to A and B the order of the acts may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent acts may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that aspects described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects have been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

