---

title: Zein composition and methods of production
abstract: A high cysteine content zein composition is provided. A method and system for the manufacture of the bioproduct is likewise disclosed herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09487565&OS=09487565&RS=09487565
owner: Poet Research, Inc.
number: 09487565
owner_city: Sioux Falls
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140522
---
The present application is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 965 255 which is a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT US2009 69969 filed Dec. 31 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 196 720 filed Dec. 31 2008 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 207 868 filed Dec. 31 2008 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 161 313 filed Mar. 18 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 161 318 filed Mar. 18 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 161 322 filed Mar. 18 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 161 325 filed Mar. 18 2009 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The Government may have rights in an invention claimed in the present application pursuant to Contract No. DE FG36 08G08033 with the Department of Energy.

The present application relates to systems and methods for the extraction of protein from a fermentation product. The present application also relates to a system for the extraction of zein from fermented solids in the production of ethanol from corn. The present application further relates to a composition of extracted zein comprising alpha zein beta zein and gamma zein.

Zein is a group of plant proteins that can be extracted from corn or corn protein containing substrates such as corn gluten meal and has utility as a raw material for a variety of non toxic and renewable polymer applications. Zein is classified as GRAS Generally Recognized As Safe by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and has a variety of commercial uses including the manufacture of edible food packaging edible films biodegradable plastic resins chewing gum base tablet coating compounds adhesives coatings for paper cups soda bottle cap linings etc. Zein can also be processed into resins and other bioplastic polymers which can be extruded or rolled into a variety of plastic products.

Zein belongs to a class of proteins called prolamins which are soluble in alcohol and comprises approximately forty to fifty percent of the total protein in corn or about four percent of the corn kernel. Zein has been further divided into four subclasses alpha zein beta zein gamma zein and delta zein. Alpha zein is the primary commercially used zein and accounts for about seventy percent of the zein in corn. Beta zein accounts for about five percent of the zein in corn. Gamma zein accounts for approximately twenty to twenty five percent of the zein in corn and delta zein accounts for about one to five percent of the zein in corn. Each zein type alpha beta gamma and delta has a different amino acid profile and exhibits slightly different physical properties.

Zein can be extracted and recovered from corn or co products from corn processing. The composition and characteristics of the resulting zein may depend on the starting material and the extraction solvent.

For example ethanol can be produced from grain based feedstocks such as corn . Ethanol production from corn produces fermentation products e.g. co products that are suitable for use as starting materials for zein extraction. One such co product includes corn gluten meal CGM a by product of wet milling ethanol production. In a typical wet milling process ethanol is produced from corn by first steeping the corn kernels in water that contains sulfur dioxide and then separating the kernels into endosperm fiber and germ. The endosperm is further processed to produce starch and corn gluten which can be dried into Corn Gluten Meal. Corn Gluten Meal is a typical starting material for zein extraction due to its high protein content sixty percent or greater . However the sulfur dioxide or other chemicals that may be used during the preparation e.g. in a steeping process of corn gluten meal may adversely affect zein quality.

Another co product from which zein may be extracted comes from a dry milling process. In a typical dry milling process a starch containing material such as corn is ground into flour and slurried with water and enzymes. The slurry may be cooked to liquefy the starch and to facilitate saccharification. Additional enzymes may be added to complete saccharification to break down the starch into simple sugars e.g. glucose that can be fermented using an ethanologen e.g. yeast . The fermentation produces a fermentation product that comprises a liquid portion or component and a solids portion or component. The liquid portion comprises ethanol water and other soluble components. The residual solids comprise for example proteins fiber oil and other insoluble components.

The fermentation product comprising a liquid component and a solids component may be distilled to separate ethanol and whole stillage e.g. wet solids or fermentation solids . Whole stillage comprises residual solids and water and may be further separated into wet cake and thin stillage. Wet cake wet solids can be dried into meal such as dried distillers grains DDG thin stillage can be reduced to syrup and added to the wet cake or meal during the drying process to produce dried distillers grains with solubles DDGS . Meal such as DDG and DDGS can be used as an animal feed product. The wet cake or dried meals DDG and or DDGS may be used as a starting material for zein extraction.

According to an alternative process for example as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0239181 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety starch may be converted into sugars and fermented in a raw starch process without cooking or liquefaction. Heat damage to proteins and other components of the slurry may be avoided by using the raw starch process. The resulting wet cake DDG or DDGS from the raw starch process may likewise be used for zein extraction.

Further a dry fractionation process that does not utilize sulfur dioxide may be used instead of wet milling to fractionate the corn into endosperm fiber and germ. The amount of residual solids in the fermentation product can be reduced by fractionation and by eliminating fiber and germ both low in starch from fermentation. Endosperm is primarily comprised of starch and protein with small amounts of fiber and oil present. Zein is also concentrated in the endosperm more than half of the endosperm protein may be comprised of zein. When endosperm is fermented the residual solids comprise a high concentration of zein. The dried residual solids from endosperm fermentation are high in protein and result in a meal that is called high protein dried distiller grains DDG HP . DDG HP is well suited as a starting material for zein extraction.

As previously noted four different types of zein proteins are present in corn alpha zein beta zein gamma zein and delta zein. Each zein type has a different amino acid profile and exhibits slightly different properties. The predominant commercially available zein sold in industry currently is comprised almost entirely of alpha zein. The melt strength of this zein is low making it ineffective as a material for blown films. Films of commercial zein are brittle and weak compared to synthetic films. These physical properties are the result of alpha zein containing only one cysteine thus making it able to only form one disulfide bond. In contrast beta zein and gamma zein contain greater number of cysteine amino acid bases at and cysteine respectively. Thus zein formulations with greater concentrations of beta and gamma zein may have higher melting temperatures and greater plasticity. This may enable zein products to be utilized in a wider range of applications including blown films and plastics of greater strength.

It would be advantageous to provide for systems and methods for extracting protein from a fermentation product which yields high levels of beta and gamma zein. It would also be advantageous to provide for a system for producing ethanol that facilitated the recovery of co products including high cysteine zein compositions extracted from components of the fermentation product. Further it would also be advantageous to provide for a zein composition with high cysteine for improved physical properties.

To achieve the foregoing and in accordance with the present invention a system and method of producing a zein composition is disclosed. In particular a zein composition including high cysteine content is disclosed. The zein composition may include alpha beta and gamma zein. In some embodiments the beta and gamma zein may comprise from about 12 to about 60 of the zein in the zein composition. In other embodiments beta and gamma zein content may be higher such as at least 25 35 and 40 .

The zein composition can be produced from a feedstock in a system configured to produce ethanol and distillers grains from a fermentation product. The method comprises the steps of processing the feedstock into a starch containing component and creating a slurry comprising the starch containing component. The method comprises the steps of preparing the starch containing component of the slurry into a fermentable component for fermentation and fermenting at least a portion of the fermentable component of the slurry into the fermentation product. The method comprises the steps of processing the fermentation product into zein compositions comprising the ethanol and the distillers dried grains and producing a zein composition comprising from about 12 to about 60 of the zein in the zein composition from the fermentation product.

Producing the zein composition can comprise extracting a first zein composition from the fermentation product using a solvent solution in a first vessel. The fermentation product may then be subjected to a second extraction whereby a second solvent solution extracts a second zein composition. The second solvent solution may include an extraction agent to increase the levels of cysteine higher beta and gamma zein content within the second zein composition. Extraction agents may include acids sulfites thiols and alkalis such as sodium hydroxide.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to several embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order to not unnecessarily obscure the present invention. The features and advantages of embodiments may be better understood with reference to the drawings and discussions that follow.

The present invention relates to compositions and systems and methods of manufacture for these compositions. Particularly high cysteine containing zein formulations are disclosed. These zein compositions include higher ratios of beta and gamma zein which include 12 and 15 cysteine respectively. In contrast alpha zein of which almost all commercially available zein is composed of contains a single cysteine. Cysteine enables the zein molecules to form disulfide bonds. As a result plastics and films made from predominantly alpha zein may have low melting temperatures and tend to be brittle and weak in comparison to compositions of zein with greater levels of bet a and gamma zein which may be substantially stronger with higher melting temperatures. This potentially opens a much larger range of applications to these cysteine rich zein formulations including durable plastics and blown films for example.

The presently illustrated ethanol plant includes an area where corn or other suitable material including but not limited to biomass sugars and other starch products is delivered and prepared to be supplied to the ethanol production facility. The ethanol production facility comprises apparatus for preparation and treatment e.g. milling of the corn into corn flour suitable for fermentation into fermentation product in a fermentation system . The ethanol production facility comprises a distillation system in which the fermentation product is distilled and dehydrated into ethanol. The biorefinery may also comprise in some embodiments a by product treatment system shown as comprising a centrifuge a dryer and an evaporator .

One embodiment of the equipment used in an ethanol production facility for zein extraction from fermented solids e.g. DDG HP DDGS DDG beer and wet cake is illustrated in . Substantially the same equipment is utilized for each of the different fermentation processes conventional raw starch raw starch endosperm and for each of the different starting materials Corn Gluten Meal fermented solids DDG HP DDGS DDG beer wet cake . According to an exemplary embodiment the feedstock utilized is DDG HP. According to another embodiment the feedstock used could be DDG. According to another embodiment the feedstock used could be Corn Gluten Meal CGM .

According to an exemplary embodiment the zein extraction and recovery process may comprise three steps extraction refinement e.g. purification and recovery. The extraction step removes zein by solubilization zein is soluble in aqueous alcohol. The extraction equipment comprises a reactor vessel into which are input fermentation solids which can be processed through a hammer mill the fermentation solids are the output of the various ethanol processes shown in .

Other inputs to the reactor vessel comprise an extraction agent optional alcohol water steam and acid optional . In this exemplary embodiment the extraction agent utilized is Sodium Hydroxide NaOH however in some embodiments other alkali or surfactants may be utilized as an extraction agent. In some embodiments the agent can comprise potassium hydroxide. In some embodiments the agent can comprise an acid such as hydrochloric acid. The extraction agent can alternatively comprise an alkali hydroxide. In some embodiments the extraction agent can be sulfite such as sodium metabisulfite. In some other embodiments the extraction agent can comprise a thiol such as 2 mercaptoethanol.

According to certain embodiments the alcohol can be selected from an alcohol composition comprising C1 to C7 alcohols e.g. methanol ethanol or propanol . According to certain embodiments the alcohol is ethanol.

According to an exemplary embodiment the aqueous alcohol or aqueous ethanol solution comprises an extraction agent such as sodium hydroxide in an amount based on the dry solids of the starting material. According to an exemplary embodiment up to 7.0 percent of sodium hydroxide is used. According to some embodiment the concentration of sodium hydroxide is 2.8 4.0 percent. According to some specific embodiment the concentration of sodium hydroxide is 3.2 3.8 percent. Note that other alkali detergents or surfactants may in some embodiments be likewise utilized as an extraction agent.

According to an embodiment the contents of the reactor vessel are drained into a centrifuge such as a disc nozzle centrifuge or basket centrifuge for separation into a solids component and a liquid component comprising ethanol and zein. Zein can be refined by filtration and recovered from the liquid component by drying or precipitation.

As illustrated the refinement or purification step may comprise the use of multiple filters or membranes configured to remove matter having different sizes e.g. membrane filters having different pore sizes . The first filter can have for example one micrometer pore size e.g. a micro filter . The first filter is designed to protect the ultra filtration membrane by removing suspended solids that were not removed in the separation step. The solids are sent to a tank and the liquids are further processed to recover the zein. The liquids are then passed over a second filter which can be a membrane filter with a molecular weight cutoff intended to remove small molecular weight components and to concentrate the zein solution. The retentate e.g. zein ethanol solution is sent to a holding tank vessel or mixing reactor and the permeate may be further processed for ethanol recovery e.g. by distillation .

Zein is recovered from the retentate solution e.g. from the second filter by drying the solution for example with a vacuum double drum dryer or a desolventizer . In accordance with certain embodiments the zein solution can be precipitated by diluting the alcohol concentration to where zein is no longer soluble e.g. 50 percent w v or less depending upon temperature .

In an embodiment zeolite can be utilized to remove impurities from the zein composition. A crude solution of a zein contained in an aqueous alcohol solvent is contacted with a zeolite adsorbent under conditions effective for adsorption of the color and odor impurities in the zein solution onto the zeolite. The treated solution may be separated from the adsorbent with the intent to recover high quality zein dissolved in the aqueous alcohol solvent. Optionally more impurities e.g. residual color or order can be removed by contacting the treated solution with an activated carbon adsorbent or a mixture of activated carbon and zeolite adsorbents. The process can be conducted using batch semi continuous or continuous systems.

Another embodiment of the equipment used in an ethanol production facility for zein extraction from fermented solids e.g. DDG HP DDGS DDG beer and wet cake is illustrated in . Such an extraction system may be utilized for the generation of high beta and gamma zein products. Substantially the same equipment is utilized for each of the different fermentation processes conventional raw starch raw starch endosperm and for each of the different starting materials Corn Gluten Meal fermented solids DDG HP DDGS DDG beer wet cake . According to an exemplary embodiment the feedstock utilized is DDG HP. According to another embodiment the feedstock used could be DDG. According to another embodiment the feedstock used could be Corn Gluten Meal CGM .

According to an exemplary embodiment the zein extraction and recovery process may comprise four steps extraction separation re extraction refinement and recovery. The first extraction step removes primarily alpha zein by solubilization zein is soluble in aqueous alcohol. The extraction equipment comprises a first reactor vessel into which are input fermentation solids which can be processed through a hammer mill the fermentation solids are the output of the various ethanol processes shown in .

Other inputs to the first reactor vessel comprise alcohol water heat and acid optional . In this exemplary embodiment the no extraction agent is utilized for the initial extraction. This ensures that the zein removed by initial extraction is predominantly alpha zein. According to certain embodiments the alcohol can be selected from an alcohol composition comprising C1 to C7 alcohols e.g. methanol ethanol or propanol . According to certain embodiments the alcohol is ethanol.

The mixture may be provided to a centrifuge for separation of the liquids including alpha zein ethanol and water from the solids pre extracted solids . The liquid portion may then be provided to one or more filters for purification and concentration. The alpha zein may be recovered at a dryer or via a precipitation. The permeate may be collected for ethanol recovery.

The pre extracted solids in this exemplary embodiment may then be provided to a second reaction vessel for re extraction of zein protein. Unlike the first extraction however and extraction agent is added to the second reaction vessel . According to an exemplary embodiment the extraction agent may include an alkali such as sodium hydroxide in an amount based on the dry solids of the starting material. According to an exemplary embodiment up to 7.0 percent of sodium hydroxide is used. According to some embodiment the concentration of sodium hydroxide is 2.8 4.0 percent. According to some specific embodiment the concentration of sodium hydroxide is 3.2 3.8 percent. Note that other alkali detergents or surfactants may in some embodiments be likewise utilized as an extraction agent.

According to an embodiment the contents of the second reactor vessel are drained into a centrifuge such as a disc nozzle centrifuge or basket centrifuge for separation into a solids component and a liquid component comprising ethanol and zein. Zein with a high concentration of beta and gamma zein can be refined by filtration and recovered from the liquid component by drying or precipitation. One or more filters condense the high beta and gamma zein. Permeate from filtration may be collected for ethanol recovery and the like. The retentate which includes the high beta and gamma zein is provided to a dryer for example with a vacuum double drum dryer or a desolventizer for recovery of the zein composition which is high in beta and gamma zein. In accordance with certain embodiments the zein solution can be precipitated by diluting the alcohol concentration to where zein is no longer soluble e.g. 50 percent w v or less . Left over solids may also be dried in a dryer to provide feed material such as high protein DDG Corn Gluten Meal DDG or DDGS dependent upon the starting material.

As with the previously disclosed system for zein extraction in some embodiment zeolite can be utilized to remove impurities from the zein composition. A crude solution of a zein contained in an aqueous alcohol solvent is contacted with a zeolite adsorbent under conditions effective for adsorption of the color and odor impurities in the zein solution onto the zeolite. The treated solution may be separated from the adsorbent with the intent to recover high quality zein dissolved in the aqueous alcohol solvent. Optionally more impurities e.g. residual color or order can be removed by contacting the treated solution with an activated carbon adsorbent or a mixture of activated carbon and zeolite adsorbents. The process can be conducted using batch semi continuous or continuous systems.

Wet cake composition for raw starch fermentation is illustrated in . The average moisture content of the wet cake is about 69 percent and protein content is about 31 percent of dry matter.

A chart for the average protein content in starting materials for zein extraction is illustrated in . The protein content for each starting material is divided into two subsets one for dry basis left portion of the chart and one for the starting material in an as is condition right portion of the chart . As illustrated the starting material can be conventional beer conventional DDGS raw starch beer raw starch wet cake raw starch DDGS endosperm beer and or endosperm DDGS. The concentration values are represented as percentages.

The solvent to solids ratio is the weight of the solvent combined ethanol and water relative to the weight of the solids. A typical range of solvent to solids ratio is from 4 1 to 10 1. In one embodiment the range of solvent to solids ratio is from 4 1 through to 7 1. In another embodiment the solvent to solids ratio is 5 1.

For zein extraction from beer a typical range of solvent to solids ratio is from 6 1 to 10 1. In one embodiment the range of solvent to solids ratio is from 7 1 to 10 1. In another embodiment the solvent to solids ratio is from 7 1 to 8 1.

The solvent ethanol concentration is the weight percent concentration of ethanol in extraction solvent. A typical range for solvent ethanol concentration is from about 40 to about 90 percent. A first example range for solvent ethanol concentration is about 50 to about 80 percent. A second example range for solvent ethanol concentration is from about 60 to about 70 percent.

When an extraction agent is desired e.g. for single extractions and the re extraction of double extractions an alkali detergent or surfactant may be used. In some cases sodium hydroxide may be a suitable extraction agent. The sodium hydroxide concentration is the weight of solids on a dry basis. A typical range for sodium hydroxide concentration is from 0 percent to about 5 percent. In one embodiment the range is from about 2.8 percent to about 4.0 percent. In another embodiment the range is 3.4 percent through 3.6 percent.

The extraction temperature is the temperature of the slurry in the extraction vessel. The temperature range for the zein extraction typically ranges from about 20 to about 78 degrees Celsius. In one embodiment the temperature range for zein extraction is from about 50 to about 75 degrees Celsius. In another embodiment the temperature range for zein extraction is from about 68 to about 70 degrees Celsius.

The extraction time is the duration of time the slurry is held at the extraction temperature. The extraction time typically ranges from about 20 to about 120 minutes. In one embodiment the extraction time is from about 25 to about 60 minutes. In another embodiment the extraction time is from about 28 to about 30 minutes.

A series of limited examples were conducted according to an exemplary embodiment of the system as shown in in an effort to determine suitable apparatus and operating conditions for the manufacture of zein compositions and products. Experiments and tests were conducted to evaluate the zein compositions and yields from different starting materials and processes. The following example is intended to provide clarity to some embodiments of systems and means of operation and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

According to a series of examples zein composition was extracted from different starting materials beer wet cake and DDG from the different ethanol processes cooked starch fermentation raw starch fermentation and endosperm raw starch fermentation to compare the zein yields. Zein was extracted using 70 percent ethanol in water with 3.5 percent sodium hydroxide based on the dry solids of the starting material at 70 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes. is a table illustrating the example zein extraction yields. Extracting from DDG from raw starch fermentation recovers more zein than does extracting from DDG from a cooked starch fermentation process shown as conventional fermentation . The combination of corn fractionation and raw starch fermentation provides better extraction efficiencies at best partially explained by the higher protein content of DDG HP .

Further zein compositions were extracted from Corn Gluten Meal CGM and High Protein Dried Distillers Grain DDG HP under a single extraction with sodium hydroxide as well as by a double extraction as outlined above in reference to . The single extraction was performed using 70 percent ethanol in water with 3.5 percent sodium hydroxide based on the dry solids of the starting material at 70 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes. Double extraction consisted of an initial extraction using 70 percent ethanol in water at 70 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes and a re extraction on the pre extracted solids using 70 percent ethanol in water with 3.5 percent sodium hydroxide based on the dry solids of the starting material at 70 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes. provide example HPLC chromatograms of zein compositions extracted under these conditions at laboratory scale.

In contrast illustrates the HPLC chromatogram for zein recovered from DDG HP after the initial extraction of a double extraction procedure. This extraction is identical to the previous extraction except that no extraction agent is utilized. A peak for the recovered alpha zein may be clearly seen however without an alkali or other extraction agent the yields of beta and gamma zein are all but nonexistent.

After the initial extraction of the DDG HP the resulting solids pre extracted DDG HP may be subject to a re extraction. Re extraction is performed with the use of an extraction agent such as sodium hydroxide. The HPLC chromatogram for the zein recovered from pre extracted DDG HP after a re extraction is illustrated at . Shown are alpha zein zein beta zein zein and gamma zein zein . Again the peaks for beta and gamma zein did not completely separate using this technique and the relative amounts of beta and gamma are reported as a total sum of both types of zein. Of note is that the relative amounts of beta and gamma zein are much higher after re extraction from a pre extracted DDG HP.

Further relative amounts of alpha zein zein beta zein zein and gamma zein zein may be further controlled through routine manipulation of the temperature timing and solvent concentration used for the initial extraction and the subsequent re extraction. Further it may be possible to further increase the relative content of the beta and gamma zein through the use of more than one initial wash without an extraction agent.

A similar set of examples were generated using Corn Gluten Meal CGM as a starting material. illustrates the zein HPLC chromatogram for CGM after a single extraction with extraction agent . Shown are alpha zein zein beta zein zein and gamma zein zein . Unlike DDG HP even with the inclusion of an alkali the extraction still yields a predominantly alpha zein product.

The trends for extractions on CGM differ slightly. Particularly when CGM is used as a starting material the inclusion of sodium hydroxide does not appear to dramatically affect yields of beta and gamma zein. In fact beta and gamma zein yields were 2.9 and 3.3 respectively for extractions with and without sodium hydroxide. High protein and low fat values are also seen for these samples. However the second extraction of a pre extracted CGM with the inclusion of sodium hydroxide yields a much higher value for beta and gamma zein content at 28.8 . Alpha zein is likewise reduced to 71.2 . Fat remains very low and protein content very high for these extractions.

In accordance with various embodiments the concentrations of the various proteins of zein may be altered by processing to recover within the available range a zein intended to have a composition more specifically applicable to the intended commercial uses such as by increasing the beta and gamma zein percentage to allow for more usage in strength requiring applications .

Conventional zein extraction methods utilize seventy percent aqueous ethanol to extract zein. In some embodiments it is further possible to provide methods where the ethanol concentration is increased after extraction such as to ninety percent. As a result of increasing the percentage of ethanol more beta zein and gamma zein can precipitate out of the zein solution. Zein that has already been recovered by the conventional zein extraction can be redissolved in ninety percent ethanol. The zein that remains undissolved is high in beta zein and gamma zein. Both described methods can produce a zein fraction that contain more than 50 beta zein and gamma zein. In such a way even greater control over zein content may be established.

Yields of recovered zein depend on time temperature particle size and percent aqueous alcohol used for the extraction. As noted sodium hydroxide or other extraction agent can also be added to the solvent to increase the zein yields. Using sodium hydroxide e.g. as an extraction agent in the solvent also changes the solubility of beta and gamma zein and enables the extraction of beta and gamma zein. Other extraction agents may also be used such as another alkali hydroxide e.g. potassium hydroxide an acid hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid or a sulfite e.g. sodium sulfite sodium bisulfate or sodium metabisulfite . The relative volumes of ethanol extraction agent and starting material will change based on the moisture content of the starting material and targeted ethanol concentration.

In some cases zein recovery is improved by extracting at 50 degrees Celsius or higher and by the addition of 3.5 percent sodium hydroxide or another reducing agent to the aqueous alcohol. By increasing the pH of the extracting solvent using sodium hydroxide zein recovery tends to increase. Decreasing pH decreases the material recovered to a minim at about pH of 5 further lowering the pH below 5 increases the amount of zein recovered but not to the same extent as increasing the pH. Decreasing the pH also lowers protein in the recovered material. Lowering the pH also decrease the amount of beta zein and gamma zein recovered. Decreasing the pH to below 5.5 reduces the amount of beta zein and gamma zein in the recovered material to 0 5 .

The terms dried distillers grains DDG dried distillers grains with solubles DDGS grains granular material pelletized material or the like can refer to particulate matter. Although many types of biomass may be fermented in an alcohol plant producing various types of particulate products to be transported to other locations a corn based ethanol plant producing dried distillers grains is discussed throughout this application for illustrative purposes of material properties and operational aspects for embodiments.

The word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion and the disclosed subject matter is not limited by such examples.

The term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. To the extent that the terms comprises has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

In view of the exemplary apparatus and methods methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies were shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies.

It is important to note that the construction and arrangement of the elements of the disclosed subject matter as described in this application and as shown in the figures is illustrative only. Although some embodiments have been described in detail in this disclosure those skilled in the art who review this disclosure will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible e.g. variations in size dimensions structures shapes and proportions of the various elements values of parameters mounting arrangements use of materials colors orientations etc. without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the subject matter recited. For example elements shown as integrally formed the operation of the interfaces may be reversed or otherwise varied the length or width of the structures and or members or connectors or other elements of the system may be varied the nature or number of adjustment positions provided between the elements may be varied. It should be noted that the elements and or assemblies of the system may be constructed from any of a wide variety of materials that provide sufficient strength or durability in any of a wide variety of colors textures and combinations. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be comprised within the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the spirit of the present inventions.

