---

title: System and method for creating hybrid resistance and capacitance (RC) netlist using three-dimensional RC extraction and 2.5 dimensional RC extraction
abstract: One or more systems and methods for a cell based hybrid resistance and capacitance (RC) extraction are provided. The method includes generating a layout for a semiconductor arrangement, performing a three-dimensional (3D) RC extraction on a target unit cell to obtain a 3D RC result including a coupling capacitance between unit cells, generating a 3D RC netlist based upon the 3D RC result, performing a 2.5 dimensional (2.5D) RC extraction on a peripheral cell to obtain a 2.5D RC netlist, and combining the 3D RC netlist with the 2.5D RC netlist to create a hybrid RC netlist for the layout. In some embodiments, the hybrid RC netlist is generated by stitching the coupling capacitance for at least one of the target unit cell, a repeating unit cell, or the peripheral cell together. In some embodiments, the 3D RC result for the target unit cell is stitched to the repeating unit cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582630&OS=09582630&RS=09582630
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09582630
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140828
---
Semiconductor arrangements such as integrated circuits ICs are designed and modeled using schematics and layouts. RC extraction is performed on a layout to create an RC netlist describing connectivity resistance properties capacitance properties or other electrical or size properties of a semiconductor arrangement. The RC netlist is evaluated against a schematic of the semiconductor arrangement to determine whether the layout is an equivalent of the schematic.

The following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of the provided subject matter. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. For example the formation of a first feature over or on a second feature in the description that follows may include embodiments in which the first and second features are formed in direct contact and may also include embodiments in which additional features may be formed between the first and second features such that the first and second features may not be in direct contact. In addition the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

Further spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. The spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of a device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. The apparatus may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein may likewise be interpreted accordingly.

One or more systems and one or more methods for performing a cell based hybrid resistance and capacitance RC extraction are provided herein. In some embodiments the cell based hybrid RC extraction comprises determining parasitic parameters of a semiconductor arrangement utilizing a 2.5 dimensional 2.5D RC extraction tool and a three dimensional 3D RC extraction tool. The 3D RC extraction tool evaluates a target unit cell to create a 3D RC netlist. The 2.5D RC extraction tool evaluates one or more peripheral cells to create a 2.5D RC netlist. The 2.5D RC netlist and the 3D RC netlist are combined to form a hybrid RC netlist. In some embodiments cell based hybrid RC extraction enhances speed and accuracy of extracting parasitic parameters such as parasitic capacitance or parasitic resistance.

Referring to illustrated is a flow diagram of a method for generating a hybrid RC netlist according to some embodiments. In some embodiments the method is used to determine parasitic parameters such as parasitic capacitance or parasitic resistance for testing layouts of a design for a semiconductor arrangement before manufacturing. In some embodiments the hybrid RC netlist is generated by performing a cell based hybrid RC extraction on a layout of a semiconductor arrangement illustrated in .

At a design of the semiconductor arrangement is generated. In some embodiments the design comprises a Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit Emphasis SPICE schematic. In some embodiments a pre layout simulation is performed on the design. In some embodiments the pre layout simulation comprises a SPICE simulation performed by an electronic design automation EDA tool. In some embodiments the pre layout simulation determines if the design of the semiconductor arrangement satisfies a predetermined set of parameters for manufacturing the semiconductor arrangement .

In some embodiments the design of the semiconductor arrangement comprises an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In some embodiments the design of the semiconductor arrangement comprises a memory device such as a static random access memory SRAM device a dynamic random access memory DRAM device etc. In some embodiments the design of the semiconductor arrangement comprises a plurality of repeating unit cells. In some embodiments the repeating unit cells are bit cells such as a 1 bit cell a 2 bit cell or a 3 bit cell. In some embodiments the design of the semiconductor arrangement comprises a plurality of peripheral cells that are positioned along a periphery of the plurality of repeating unit cells.

In some embodiments the repeating unit cells comprise one or more semiconductor devices. In some embodiments the repeating unit cells comprise one or more semiconductor devices such as between about 2 semiconductor devices to about 50 or any other number of semiconductor devices. In some embodiments the semiconductor devices comprise at least one of a transistor a diode a capacitor an inductor a fuse a resistor or an interconnect. In some embodiments the transistor comprises at least one of a metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS transistor a bipolar junction transistor BJT a high voltage transistor a high frequency transistor a p channel field effect transistor PFET a n channel field effect transistor NFET or a FinFET. In some embodiments the interconnect comprises at least one of a via a conductive pad a conductive trace or a conductive redistribution layer. In some embodiments the semiconductor devices comprise other middle or line or back end of line components such as contacts insulating layers dielectric layers metal levels bonding sites for chip to package connections etc.

At a layout of the semiconductor arrangement is generated. In some embodiments the layout is generated based upon the design of the semiconductor arrangement . In some embodiments the layout is a representation of the semiconductor arrangement in terms of planar geometric shapes which correspond to the patterns of at least one of metal oxide or semiconductor layers that make up the semiconductor arrangement . In some embodiments the layout is provided in the form of a layout netlist.

In some embodiments as illustrated in the layout of the semiconductor arrangement comprises at least one of a target unit cell repeating unit cells or peripheral cells . In some embodiments the target unit cell and the repeating unit cells are identified from an array of like unit cells within the layout. In some embodiments the array of unit cells is at least one of a 2 2 array a 4 4 array a 8 8 array a 16 16 array a 32 32 array 64 64 array or the like. In some embodiments the target unit cell comprises at least one of a middle end of line component or a back end of line component.

At the layout of the semiconductor arrangement is texted. In some embodiments the text is added to the layout netlist. In some embodiments the text added to the layout netlist identifies a component within at least one of the repeating unit cells the target unit cell or the peripheral cells . In some embodiments the text corresponds to at least one of a contact a via a pwell a nwell a net wire a power supply a ground a word line a bit line or another form of a metal connect. In some embodiments one or more nets running in or out of the target unit cell are texted. In some embodiments when a net is connected on the outside of the target unit cell a virtual connection text is used to identify at least one of the net or a net connection. In some embodiments a first text is added to a first component in the target unit cell and a second text is added to a second component in at least one of the repeating unit cells 

At an environment is added to at least one of the target unit cell or the repeating unit cells . In some embodiments the environment defines at least one environmental influence on the target unit cell such as a bias. In some embodiments the environment characterizes the bias that is applied by at least one of the repeating unit cells to the target unit cell . In some embodiments the environment defines the bias from edge polygons of at least one of the repeating unit cells adjacent to the target unit cell . In some embodiments the bias comprises a coupling capacitance between the target unit cell and at least one of the repeating unit cells . In some embodiments the environment comprises a third text added to at least one component proximate a boundary of the target unit cell and a fourth text added to the same or different component in at least one of the repeating unit cells proximate the boundary of the target unit cell . In some embodiments the environment is used to determine a capacitive coupling at the boundary between the target unit cell and at least one of the repeating unit cells . In some embodiments the environment improves signal integrity by accounting for coupling between the target unit cell and at least one of the repeating unit cells 

At a first layout versus schematic LVS check is performed on at least one of the repeating unit cells or the target unit cell . In some embodiments the first LVS check is performed to check whether the layout for at least one of the repeating unit cells or the target unit cell corresponds to the design. In some embodiments an EDA tool performs the first LVS check. In some embodiments the EDA tool generates a first LVS netlist. In some embodiments the first LVS netlist is generated based upon at least one of the components or connections within at least one of the repeating unit cells or the target unit cell . In some embodiments the first LVS netlist is compared with the design netlist to determine whether the first LVS netlist and the design netlist match within a matching tolerance.

In some embodiments a design rule check DRC is performed before or after the first LVS check. In some embodiments the DRC checks whether the layout satisfies manufacturing design rules. In some embodiments if a design rule is violated a correction is made to at least one of the layout or the design. In some embodiments other verification processes are used.

At a 3D RC extraction is performed on the target unit cell . In some embodiments a 3D RC extraction tool performs the 3D RC extraction. In some embodiments the 3D RC extraction tool comprises a 3D field solver. In some embodiments the 3D RC extraction tool provides a relatively accurate RC extraction for the target unit cell such as an extraction of complex 3D structures located at advanced process nodes. In some embodiments a 3D window region for the 3D RC extraction is generated to identify a boundary of the target unit cell . In some embodiments the 3D RC extraction is performed on one or more semiconductor devices within or touching the boundary of the target unit cell .

In some embodiments the 3D RC extraction is performed on the target unit cell to obtain a 3D RC result. In some embodiments the 3D RC result comprises at least one of a coupling capacitance or a parasitic parameter. In some embodiments the 3D RC result comprises a coupling capacitance between a first component in the target unit cell and a second component in at least one of the repeating unit cells . In some embodiments the 3D RC result comprises at least one of a parasitic resistance or a parasitic capacitance of a component such as a semiconductor device within the target unit cell . In some embodiments the 3D RC extraction tool through solving Maxwell s equations calculates at least one of the parasitic resistance or the parasitic capacitance. In some embodiments at least one of the parasitic resistance or the parasitic capacitance is used to determine timing simulations in subsequent operations. In some embodiments a 3D RC netlist is generated based upon the 3D RC result.

At a second LVS check is performed. In some embodiments the second LVS check is performed on the layout of the semiconductor arrangement . In some embodiments the second LVS check is performed to check whether the layout for the semiconductor arrangement corresponds to the design. In some embodiments an EDA tool performs the second LVS check. In some embodiments the EDA tool used for the second LVS check is the same as the EDA tool used for the first LVS check. In some embodiments the EDA tool that performs the LVS check generates a second LVS netlist. In some embodiments the second LVS netlist is generated in response to at least one of the recognized components or connections within at least one of the peripheral cells . In some embodiments the second LVS netlist is compared with the design netlist to determine whether the second LVS netlist and the design netlist match within a matching tolerance.

At a 2.5D RC extraction is performed. In some embodiments a 2.5D RC extraction tool performs the 2.5D RC extraction. In some embodiments the 2.5D RC extraction is performed on the layout of the semiconductor device . In some embodiments the 2.5D RC extraction is performed to determine at least one of a parasitic resistance or a parasitic capacitance of components inside at least one of the peripheral cells . In some embodiments at least one of the extracted parasitic capacitance or the parasitic resistance is added to the second LVS netlist to output a 2.5D RC netlist. In some embodiments the 2.5D RC extraction extracts pin information for at least one of the repeating unit cells the peripheral cells or the target unit cell . In some embodiments the 2.5D RC netlist comprises the extracted pin information. In some embodiments the pin information is used to preserve hierarchical connections between at least one of components or couplings within the semiconductor arrangement . In some embodiments the 2.5D RC extraction tool skips the 2.5D RC extraction of at least one of the repeating unit cells or the target unit cell . In some embodiments the 2.5D RC extraction of the target unit cell and the repeating unit cells is skipped based upon the target unit cell and the repeating unit cells being treated as a macro. In some embodiments the 2.5D RC extraction of the parasitic parameters in at least one of the repeating unit cells or the target unit cell is skipped but the pin information for at least one of the target unit cell or the repeating unit cells is extracted. In some embodiments the 2.5D RC extraction is faster and less demanding in terms of computing resources needed for processing than the 3D RC extraction. In some embodiments the 3D RC extraction has increased accuracy relative to the 2.5D RC extraction.

At a hybrid RC netlist is generated. In some embodiments the 2.5D RC netlist and the 3D RC netlist are combined to create the hybrid RC netlist. In some embodiments the 3D RC result for the target unit cell is stitched into at least one of the repeating unit cells to create a stitched hybrid RC result for at least one of the repeating unit cells . In some embodiments the stitched hybrid RC result is added to the hybrid RC netlist. In some embodiments the 3D RC result for the target unit cell is stitched into at least one of the repeating unit cells based on the pin information from the 2.5D RC netlist. In some embodiments stitching the 3D RC result to the repeating unit cells is faster than performing a 3D RC extraction on each of the repeating unit cells individually.

In some embodiments the 2.5D RC netlist and the 3D RC netlist are stitched together to bridge a coupling capacitance between at least one of the repeating unit cells the peripheral cells or the target unit cell . In some embodiments the coupling capacitance between a first component in the target unit cell and a second component in at least one of the repeating unit cells is stitched together. In some embodiments pin information is used to combine the extracted parasitic parameters from the 2.5D RC extraction and the 3D RC extraction into the hybrid RC netlist. In some embodiments the text added to at least one of the repeating unit cells the peripheral cells or the target unit cell is used to combine the 2.5D RC netlist and the 3D RC netlist. In some embodiments generating a hybrid RC netlist is faster than performing a 3D RC extraction on the entire layout and more accurate than performing a 2.5D RC extraction on the entire layout.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

According to some aspects of the instant disclosure a method for creating a hybrid resistance and capacitance RC netlist is provided. The method comprises generating a layout for a semiconductor arrangement performing a 3D RC extraction on a target unit cell to obtain a 3D RC netlist having a 3D RC result performing a 2.5D RC extraction on a peripheral cell to obtain a 2.5D RC netlist and combining the 3D RC netlist with the 2.5D RC netlist to create a hybrid RC netlist for the layout. The layout comprises the target unit cell a repeating unit cell and the peripheral cell.

According to some aspects of the instant disclosure a system for creating a hybrid resistance and capacitance RC netlist is provided. The system comprises a 3D RC extraction tool a 2.5D RC extraction tool and a hybrid RC netlist generator tool. The 3D RC extraction tool is configured to perform a 3D RC extraction on a target unit cell of a layout for a semiconductor arrangement to generate a 3D RC netlist having a 3D RC result. The 3D RC result comprises a parasitic parameter of the target unit cell and a coupling capacitance from between the target unit cell and a repeating unit cell. The 2.5D RC extraction tool is configured to perform a 2.5D RC extraction on a peripheral cell of the layout to generate a 2.5D RC netlist. The hybrid RC netlist generator tool is configured to combine the 3D RC netlist with the 2.5D RC netlist to generate a hybrid RC netlist and to stitch the 3D RC result for the target unit cell to the repeating unit cell to create a stitched result for inclusion within the hybrid RC netlist.

According to some aspects of the instant disclosure a computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed perform a method for creating a hybrid resistance and capacitance RC netlist is provided. The method comprises receiving a layout for a semiconductor arrangement identifying a target unit cell within the layout performing a 3D RC extraction on the target unit cell to generate a 3D RC netlist having a 3D RC result performing a 2.5D RC extraction on a peripheral cell to generate a 2.5D RC netlist combining the 3D RC netlist with the 2.5D RC netlist to create a hybrid RC netlist and stitching the 3D RC result to a repeating unit cell to create a stitched result for inclusion within the hybrid RC netlist.

The foregoing outlines features of several embodiments so that those skilled in the art may better understand the aspects of the present disclosure. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that they may readily use the present disclosure as a basis for designing or modifying other processes and structures for carrying out the same purposes and or achieving the same advantages of the embodiments introduced herein. Those skilled in the art should also realize that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure and that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated given the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or two identical channels or the same channel.

It will be appreciated that layers features elements etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions or orientations for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

