---

title: Adding, deleting digital notes from a group of digital notes
abstract: In general, the disclosure describes techniques for creating and manipulating software notes representative of physical notes. A computing device includes a processor, an image collection module configured to receive an input image of an environment having a plurality of physical notes, an image processing engine configured to identify the plurality of physical notes in the input image and generate a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the plurality of notes identified in the input image, wherein the plurality of digital notes include information represented by the plurality of notes in the input image, and a graphical user interface configured to display the input image overlaid with the plurality of digital notes in place of the identified plurality of notes on a first portion of the graphical user interface and to display a set of one or more of the digital notes on a second portion of the graphical user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09310983&OS=09310983&RS=09310983
owner: 3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY
number: 09310983
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141015
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 891 442 filed Oct. 16 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 934 392 filed Jan. 31 2014 the entire content of each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to note content capturing recognition extraction and or management tools and systems.

Paper notes have been broadly used in recording sharing and communicating ideas and information. For example during a collaboration session e.g. brainstorming session participants write down ideas on Post It notes whiteboard or paper and then share with one another. In addition people commonly use notes throughout the day to memorialize information or content which the individual does not want to forget. As additional examples people frequently use notes as reminders of actions or events to take in the future such as to make a telephone call revise a document or to fill out a time sheet.

For example in many situations people participate in a collaboration session by writing information on paper based notes such as Post It notes. Paper Post It notes can readily be removed from a dispenser pad of sticky back paper Post It notes and applied to various surfaces such as whiteboards documents the tops of desks telephones or the like. Information can be written on paper Post It notes either before or after the paper Post It notes are detached from their dispenser pad or attached to their target surfaces. Paper Post It notes can be easily moved from one surface to another such as between documents or between documents and the tops of desks they can overlap edges or boundaries of documents they can be layered and they can be moved with the objects to which they are attached.

Software programs currently exist which permit computer users to generate software based notes in digital form and to utilize the digital notes within computing environments. For example a computer user may create digital notes and attach the digital notes to an electronic document a desktop or an electronic workspace presented by the computing environment. The computer user may manipulate the notes allowing the notes to be created deleted edited saved and selectively viewed. The computer user may move such a note within a document or between documents and or the desktop by cutting the note from a document storing the note in a clipboard and then pasting the note to another area of the same document or to a different document. In this way the software programs provide a virtual representation of notes and allow an individual to utilize the digital notes in a manner similar to physical notes that he or she may use on a daily basis.

In general the disclosure describes techniques for creating and manipulating software notes representative of physical notes.

In one example a method comprises receiving by a computing device an input image of an environment having a plurality of physical notes processing the input image with the computing device to identify the plurality of physical notes in the input image generating by the computing device a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the plurality of notes identified in the input image wherein the plurality of digital notes include information represented by the plurality of notes in the input image displaying on a first portion of a graphical user interface of the computing device the input image overlaid with the plurality of digital notes in place of the identified plurality of notes and displaying by the computing device a set of one or more of the plurality of digital notes on a second portion of the graphical user interface wherein each of the digital notes in the set of digital notes displayed in the second portion corresponds to a respective one of the plurality of digital notes displayed in the first portion and overlaid on the input image.

In another example a computer system is configured to receive by a computing device an input image of an environment having a plurality of physical notes process the input image with the computing device to identify the plurality of physical notes in the input image generate by the computing device a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the plurality of notes identified in the input image wherein the plurality of digital notes include information represented by the plurality of notes in the input image display on a first portion of a graphical user interface of the computing device the input image overlaid with the plurality of digital notes in place of the identified plurality of notes and display by the computing device a set of one or more of the plurality of digital notes on a second portion of the graphical user interface wherein each of the digital notes in the set of digital notes displayed in the second portion corresponds to a respective one of the plurality of digital notes displayed in the first portion and overlaid on the input image

In another example a non transitory computer readable medium comprises instructions that cause a programmable processor to receive by a computing device an input image of an environment having a plurality of physical notes process the input image with the computing device to identify the plurality of physical notes in the input image generate by the computing device a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the plurality of notes identified in the input image wherein the plurality of digital notes include information represented by the plurality of notes in the input image display on a first portion of a graphical user interface of the computing device the input image overlaid with the plurality of digital notes in place of the identified plurality of notes and display by the computing device a set of one or more of the plurality of digital notes on a second portion of the graphical user interface wherein each of the digital notes in the set of digital notes displayed in the second portion corresponds to a respective one of the plurality of digital notes displayed in the first portion and overlaid on the input image.

In another example a computing device comprises a processor an image collection module executable by the processor and configured to receive an input image of an environment having a plurality of physical notes an image processing engine executable by the processor and configured to identify the plurality of physical notes in the input image and generate a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the plurality of notes identified in the input image wherein the plurality of digital notes include information represented by the plurality of notes in the input image and a graphical user interface configured to display the input image overlaid with the plurality of digital notes in place of the identified plurality of notes on a first portion of the graphical user interface and to display a set of one or more of the digital notes on a second portion of the graphical user interface.

In another example a method comprising receiving by a computing device an input image identifying by the computing device a plurality of notes in the input image editing by the computing device background colors from one or more of the plurality of notes identified in the input image generating by the computing device a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the plurality of notes identified in the input image the plurality of digital notes incorporating the edited background colors storing by the computing device the plurality of digital notes to a digital data storage device for retrieval by a user wherein the plurality of digital notes include information represented by the plurality of notes in the input image.

In another example a computing device comprising an image collection module configured to receive an input image an image processing engine configured to identify a plurality of notes in the input image received by the image collection module and generate a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the plurality of notes identified in the input image wherein the plurality of digital notes include information represented by the plurality of notes in the input image and a digital data storage device configured to store the plurality of digital notes generated by the image processing module for retrieval by a user.

The details of one or more examples of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The present disclosure describes techniques for creating and manipulating software notes representative of physical notes. For example techniques are described for recognizing physical notes present within a physical environment capturing information therefrom and creating corresponding digital representations of the physical notes referred to herein as digital notes or software based notes. Further at least some aspects of the present disclosure are directed to techniques for managing multiple notes such as storing retrieving editing the digital notes categorizing and grouping the digital notes or the like.

In general notes can include physical notes and digital notes. Physical notes generally refer to physical objects with a general boundary and recognizable content. Physical notes can include the resulting objects after people write draw or enter via other type of inputs on the objects for example paper white board or other objects accepting the inputs. By way of examples physical notes can include hand written Post It notes paper or film white board with drawings posters and signs. In some cases physical notes can be generated using digital techniques e.g. printing onto printable Post It notes or printed document. In some cases one object can include several physical notes. For example several ideas can be written on separate areas of a single piece of poster paper or a white board. In some implementations to facilitate the recognition of these notes marks such as lines shapes colors symbols markers or stickers can be applied to the edges of the notes. Physical notes can be two dimensional or three dimensional. Physical notes can have various shapes and sizes. For example a physical note may be a 7.62 7.62 cm 3 3 inches note a physical note may be a 66.04 99.06 cm 26 39 inches poster and a physical note may be a triangular metal sign. In some cases physical notes have known shapes and or sizes. In some cases physical notes may have known shapes and or sizes that conform to standards such as legal A3 A4 and other size standards and known shapes which may not be limited to geometric shapes such as stars circles rectangles or the like. In other cases physical notes may have non standardized sizes and or irregular shapes.

Digital notes generally refer to digital objects with information and or ideas. Digital notes can be generated using digital inputs. Digital inputs can include for example keyboards touch screens digital cameras digital recording devices stylus digital pens or the like. In some cases digital notes may be representative of physical notes.

In some cases digital notes may be representative of physical notes used in a collaboration space. Collaboration space generally refers to a gathering area allowing more than one person to brainstorm such as sharing ideas and thoughts with each other. The collaboration space can also represent a virtual space allowing a group of persons to brainstorm such as sharing ideas and thoughts remotely besides the gathering area. The collaboration space may be referred to as workspaces or the like.

In some examples the plurality of physical notes of workspace may comprises notes of different colors. In other examples the plurality of physical notes of workspace may comprise at least one note including fiducial markings such as markings at the upper right and lower left corners of the note. In other examples the plurality of physical notes of workspace may comprise at least one note having one color for the body of the note and another color for the border of the note. In other examples notes from the plurality of physical notes of workspace may be arranged so that they overlap such as being arranged in a stacked overlapping relationship. In other examples notes from the plurality of physical notes of workspace may be arranged adjacently.

In the example implementation mobile device includes among other components an image capture device and a presentation device . In addition although not shown in mobile device may include one or more processors microprocessors internal memory and or data storage and other electronic circuitry for executing software or firmware to provide the functionality described herein.

In general image capture device is a camera or other component configured to capture image data representative of workspace and notes positioned therein. In other words the image data captures a visual representation of an environment such as workspace having a plurality of visual notes. Although discussed as a camera of mobile device image capture device may comprise other components capable of capturing image data such as a video recorder an infrared camera a CCD Charge Coupled Device array a laser scanner or the like. Moreover the captured image data can include at least one of an image a video a sequence of images i.e. multiple images taken within a time period and or with an order a collection of images or the like and the term input image is used herein to refer to the various example types of image data.

Presentation device may include but not limited to an electronically addressable display such as a liquid crystal display LCD or other type of display device for use with mobile device . In some implementations mobile device generates the content to display on presentation device for the notes in a variety of formats for example a list grouped in rows and or column a flow diagram or the like. Mobile device may in some cases communicate display information for presentation by other devices such as a tablet computer a projector an electronic billboard or other external device.

As described herein mobile device and the software executing thereon provide a platform for creating and manipulating digital notes representative of physical notes . For example in general mobile device is configured to process image data produced by image capture device to detect and recognize at least one of physical notes positioned within workspace . In some examples the mobile device is configured to recognize note s by determining the general boundary of the note s . After a note is recognized mobile device extracts the content of at least one of the one or more notes where the content is the visual information of note . As further described below mobile device may implement techniques for automated detection and recognition of physical notes and extraction of information content or other characteristics associated with each of the physical notes. For example mobile device may allow user fine grain control over techniques used by mobile device to detect and recognize physical notes . As one example mobile device may allow user to select between marker based detection techniques in which one or more of notes includes a physical fiducial mark on the surface of the note or non marker based techniques in which no fiducial mark is used.

In addition mobile device provide user with an improved electronic environment for generating and manipulating corresponding digital notes representative of physical notes including removing background or other image related artifacts from the notes. As another example mobile device may provide mechanisms allowing user to easily add digital notes to and or delete digital notes from a set of digital notes representative of the brainstorming activity associated with workspace . In some example implementations mobile device provides functionality by which user is able to record and manage relationships between groups of notes .

In some example implementations mobile device provides functionality by which user is able to export the digital notes to other systems such as cloud based repositories e.g. cloud server or other computing devices e.g. computer system or mobile device .

In the example of mobile device is illustrated as a mobile phone. However in other examples mobile device may be a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a media player an e book reader a wearable computing device e.g. a watch eyewear a glove or any other type of mobile or non mobile computing device suitable for performing the techniques described herein.

In this example mobile device includes various hardware components that provide core functionality for operation of the device. For example mobile device includes one or more programmable processors configured to operate according to executable instructions i.e. program code typically stored in a computer readable medium or data storage such as static random access memory SRAM device or Flash memory device. I O may include one or more devices such as a keyboard camera button power button volume button home button back button menu button or presentation device as described in . Transmitter and receiver provide wireless communication with other devices such as cloud server computer system or other mobile device as described in via a wireless communication interface as described in such as but not limited to high frequency radio frequency RF signals. Mobile device may include additional discrete digital logic or analog circuitry not shown in .

In general operating system executes on processor and provides an operating environment for one or more user applications commonly referred to apps including note management application . User applications may for example comprise executable program code stored in computer readable storage device e.g. data storage for execution by processor . As other examples user applications may comprise firmware or in some examples may be implemented in discrete logic.

In operation mobile device receives input image data and processes the input image data in accordance with the techniques described herein. For example image capture device may capture an input image of an environment having a plurality of notes such as workspace of having of notes . As another example mobile device may receive image data from external sources such as cloud server computer system or mobile device via receiver . In general mobile device stores the image data in data storage for access and processing by note management application and or other user applications .

As shown in user applications may invoke kernel functions of operating system to output a graphical user interface GUI for presenting information to a user of mobile device. As further described below note management application may construct and control GUI to provide an improved electronic environment for generating and manipulating corresponding digital notes representative of physical notes . For example note management application may construct GUI to include a mechanism that allows user to easily add digital notes to and or deleting digital notes from defined sets of digital notes recognized from the image data. In some example implementations note management application provides functionality by which user is able to record and manage relationships between groups of the digital notes by way of GUI .

In this example user application includes image processing engine that provides image processing and object recognition functionality. Image processing engine may include image communication module note identification module and digital note generation module . In addition image processing engine includes image processing Application Programming Interfaces APIs that provide a library of image manipulation functions e.g. image thresholding masking filtering edge detection and the like for use by the other components of image processing engine .

In general image data may be stored in data storage device . In this example note management application stores images within data storage device . Each of images may comprise pixel data for environments having a plurality of physical images such as workspace of .

As described herein note identification module processes images and identifies i.e. recognizes the plurality of physical notes in the images. The input image may be processed by note identification module using marker and or non marker detection processes. Digital note generation module generates digital notes corresponding to the physical notes recognized within images . For example each of digital notes corresponds to one of the physical notes identified in an input image . During this process digital note generation module may update database to include a record of the digital note and may store within the database information e.g. content captured from boundaries of the physical note within the input image as detected by note identification module . Moreover digital note generation module may store within database metadata associating the digital notes into one or more groups of digital notes.

Image communication module controls communication of image data between mobile device and external devices such as cloud server computer system mobile device or image capture device . In some examples image communication modules may for example allow a user to communicate processed or unprocessed images of environments and or digital notes and associated information extracted therefrom including metadata from database . In some examples image communication module exports this data to a zip file that may be communicated by FTP HTTP email Bluetooth or other mechanism.

In the example of note management application includes user interface that constructs and controls GUI . As described below user interface may in some examples output for display an input image overlaid with the plurality of digital notes where each of the digital notes is overlaid in place of a corresponding physical note. In addition user interface may display a group of digital notes that has been designated by the user. This group of digital notes may be for example a subset of the digital notes recognized in a particular input image . User interface may display this designated group set of the digital notes on a second portion of GUI and allow user to easily add or remove digital notes from the designated group.

In some example implementations user interface provides an image editor that allows a user to edit the overlay image and or the digital notes. In another example digital note generation module may include a process or processes that enhances the extracted information from the input image.

Additional example details of note management application for detecting and recognizing physical notes are described in U.S. Patent Application 61 844 140 filed Jul. 9 2013 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NOTE RECOGNITION AND MANAGEMENT USING COLOR CLASSIFICATION U.S. Patent Application 61 844 152 filed Jul. 9 2013 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NOTE CONTENT EXTRACTION AND MANAGEMENT USING SEGMENTED NOTES and U.S. Patent Application 61 844 176 filed Jul. 9 2013 SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NOTE CONTENT EXTRACTION AND MANAGEMENT BY SEGMENTING NOTES the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Digital note generation module extracts content of the one of the plurality of notes to create sub images . In some examples digital note generation module can apply image transformation to at least part of the input image before extracting content. In some other examples digital note generation module can apply image enhancement or another image processing technique such as removing a background of the underlying workspace or changing the color of each note in the plurality of notes to improve the quality of the extracted content or sub images . In yet other examples digital note generation module can further recognize text and figures from the extracted content or sub images. Digital note generation module stores the enhanced extracted content or sub images to data storage of mobile device and may communicate the digital notes to cloud server or other computer system . At this time the system may create a respective digital note representative of a corresponding one of the recognized physical notes. The system may associate the content extracted from the visual representation for a given physical note with the corresponding digital note representative of the physical note. Program code or other executable instructions for causing a programmable processor to perform process may be stored within a computer readable storage of mobile device .

Digital note generation module may further recognize text and figures from the extracted content or sub images not shown in . Digital note generation module stores the enhanced extracted content or sub images to data storage of mobile device and may subsequently communicate the original image data and or digital notes including extracted information and metadata to cloud server or computer system as described in .

As further described below physical notes having borders that are different in color from the body of the notes provide a form of a fiducial mark that may be used for color segmentation and detection of the physical notes. As fiducial marks in some examples the border color may be selected to provide good color separation from the background color such as a white or black border color that is different from the background body color of the note. As further examples the border color and the body color may be selected to be complementary colors so as to provide good color separation such as use of cyan borders or other fiducial marks on a yellow note thereby providing high color contrast to facilitate identification of the physical note.

In other examples fiducial marks may be constructed using an invisible ink that may only be visible to the image processing engine. As another example retro reflective material may be used on the notes as a fiducial mark that may be responsive to a flash from the imaging device.

Upon receiving the input image as described in note management application executing on mobile device cloud server or computer system identifies a plurality of overlapping physical notes by using a color detection module which may be a component of note identification module . The color detection module may convert the input image to a desirable color space not shown in . An example applicable color space includes but not limited to RGB red green and blue LAB e.g. Hunter 1948 L a b color space CIE 1976 L a b color space CMYK cyan magenta yellow and key black HSV hue saturation and value HSL hue saturation and lightness HSI hue saturation and intensity sRGB standard red green and blue color space. Next the color detection module may apply one or more classification functions to color values for each pixel in the input image not shown in . The classification functions can be computed using optional training steps. The classification algorithms for the color detection module can be for example linear discriminant analysis quadratic classifier Gaussian Mixture Models Boosted Decision Trees Support Vector Machines or the like.

Some classifiers are generative in nature while others are discriminative. In general generative classifiers generate an individual model for each class in our case a color and a queried pixel group of pixels value is given a probability score as to whether it belongs to that class or not. Discriminative classifiers on the other hand model the boundary between two or more classes 2 class and multiclass classification respectively . Generative models provide easier generalizability to new classes colors that are not already modeled while separate discriminative models have to be retrained to every existing class colors . Many examples of generative and discriminative classifiers are described in Christopher M. Bishop 2006 Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning Information Science and Statistics Springer Verlag New York Inc. Secaucus N.J. USA the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Some examples of generative models are na ve Bayes classifier Gaussian Mixture Models and other probabilistic Bayesian models using Gaussian or other priors and Dictionary Learning such as those described in Michal Aharon Michael Elad and Alfred Bruckstein 2006 K SVD An Algorithm for Designing Overcomplete Dictionaries for Sparse Representation IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing 54 11 4311 4322 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Some examples of discriminative classification models are neural networks Support Vector Machines Decision Trees Linear and Quadratic discriminate classification logistic regression. Other example classification methods are neither generative nor discriminative e.g. nearest neighbor classification algorithm. In addition the performance of any of the above mentioned classification models can be improved by ensemble learning algorithms that combine multiple instances of classification models mentioned above. Ensemble learning may be implemented as Bagging Boosting and their variants.

Using the classification algorithms indicators indicative of color classes for each pixel in the image not shown in are generated. A color class includes a particular range of wavelength or can be an other color class referring to any other color besides the color classes of interest. For example a color class can be magenta yellow blue orange etc. An indicator can be represented by for example a number a code a symbol an alphanumerical token a color value a grayscale value or the like. In another example technique may also use a shape detection module and a pattern detection module as described in .

In another example a computer system may be configured to execute any variation of techniques . In another example a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions that cause a programmable processor to execute may execute any variation of techniques .

In overlapping notes A C are the same color and are segmented using a color detection module as described in and as shown in of . Optionally the mass of plurality of overlapping notes A C may be filled during the color detection module analysis as shown as mass D in of . The right angled corners of the mass of plurality of notes A C are detected using correlation templates of . The peaks of the correlation templates are located off center and are used to determine the corners of the mass of plurality of notes A C as shown in of . The corners of the mass of plurality of notes A C with marks applied to one or more corners along at least a part of the boundary and have corresponding correlation peaks are used to determine the correlated corners A A B B C and C and the orientation of each note in the mass of plurality of notes A C as shown in of . In another example the technique may optionally include performing geometric correction and cropping techniques to the mass of plurality of notes A C based on the orientation of each note in the mass of plurality of notes A C. In another example the marks can be a different color border such as a white border along the boundary of the note. In another example technique may further include determining whether at least one of the plurality of notes in the input image includes one or more marks in the mass of plurality of notes A C by comparing one or more marks to marks in a database.

In and the input image does contain one or more marks so technique may include utilizing a marker detection module with the color detection module to determine the boundary of each note segment. In based on the correlated corners A A B B C and C the boundaries of segments A C of the mass can be determined of . In some cases the marker detection module can determine the relative positions of marks which can be used to determine the boundaries of the plurality of note segments A C. The content of note segments A C of the mass can extracted from the plurality of note segments A C using the determined boundaries of . In some cases each piece of content is extracted from a corresponding note segment. In another example the extracted contents of note segments A C are used to generate a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the boundary of each note in the plurality of overlapping notes identified in the input image and the plurality of digital notes include information represented by the plurality of note segments A C in the input image. In another example the extracted contents of note segments A C are used to generate a plurality of segmented digital notes corresponding to the boundary of each note in the plurality of overlapping notes identified in the input image and the plurality of segmented digital notes include information represented by the plurality of note segments A C in the input image. In this way the system may create one or more respective digital note representative of a corresponding one of the recognized physical notes. As one example a record may be created to contain a plurality of database fields including fields for storing the particular content of each color segment of the physical note. The system may associate the content extracted from the visual representation for a given physical note with the corresponding digital note representative of the physical note. Moreover the system may associate the content piece extracted from each color segment with the digital representation of each color segment. For example the system may update the fields for the respective record within the database to store respective ones of the content pieces for the different notes or segments.

In one example as illustrated in a user such as user of activates marker detection control before directing note management application to capture or otherwise process an input image. By activating marker detection toggle to utilize a marker detection module user directs image processing engine of note management application to segment a plurality of detected overlapping physical notes based on fiducial markers associated with the notes. The user may activate a marker detection control prior capturing the input image of the workspace or may activate marker detection control after the workspace is captured but prior to a processing of the input image to utilize a marker detection module to segment the plurality of overlapping notes based on fiducial markers. In this example the note in the input image contains mark which can be a barcode a color code a color a matrix code a color block a different color border or the like.

In general the marker detection module uses one or more marks to determine the boundary of the note. In some cases the note may be slanted in the input image not shown in . In some other cases the input image may be taken with geometric distortion. The marker detection module may use the determined boundary of mark or a portion of mark to determine the necessary image transformation and correction to the input image to obtain the content of the note.

In another case as illustrated in the user may elect to disable marker detection control to not include a marker detection module in the note recognition technique. In response image processing engine of note management module may invoke any one or more non marker based note detection algorithms such as identifying the plurality of physical notes based on shapes defined by perimeters of the plurality of notes in the input image identifying the plurality of notes according to color spaces associated with background colors of the plurality of notes and or identifying the plurality of notes according to a pattern recognition algorithm.

For purposes of example marker detection control is shown as a toggle UI element having an on state and an off state although other UI elements could be used such as radio buttons drop down lists and the like.

In the example illustrated by a mobile device includes a graphical user interface with a first portion region and a second portion region . Note management application displays within first portion of graphical user interface the input image captured from a workspace where the input image typically provides a visual representation of a workspace having a plurality of physical notes. Note management application displays within second portion a set of digital images generated from the physical notes within the input image as recognized by note management application .

In addition note management application may display on the first portion of graphical user interface the digital notes and enhanced sub images associated therewith overlaid on the original input image where each of the plurality of digital notes is presented in place of the corresponding physical note recognized by the note management application. This may for example aid the user in associating the digital notes with their respect physical notes in the workspace.

Each note in the plurality of digital notes on first portion and second portion of the graphical user interface may be selected by a user input for deletion from the set of digital notes. As illustrated between the selected digital note in the second portion of the graphical user interface may be deleted from the second portion of the graphical user interface and remain in the first portion of the graphical user interface. In another example the selected digital note may be deleted from both the first portion and the second portion of the graphical user interface. In another example the selected digital note may be deleted from the first portion of the graphical user interface and remain in the second portion of the graphical user interface.

In the example technique illustrated by note management application processes an input image of workspace that in this example includes a plurality of notes separated into groups based on distance. In this example note management application identifies an indication of one or more groups based on the distances between each of the recognized notes and a threshold distance as determined by mobile device . That is note management application may determine clusters of physical notes within the input image and based on the clusters logically associate the digital notes into groups of digital notes. In some examples note management application may compute a 2D grid or 3D array of position data associated with objects within the input image and for each recognized physical note determine an absolute position and boundary for the note within the 2D or 3D space and thereby compute a complete representation of the workspace. Based on this information note management application can determine minimum distances between each physical note within the virtual space and based on the distances determine groupings of the corresponding digital notes corresponding to the physical notes. In other examples note management application may determine groupings based on a threshold value which may be a threshold distance or a threshold ratio pre determined by a user or calculated by mobile device . The use of threshold ratios allows note management application to interpret the natural groupings of notes by the meeting participants without the need to train users as to what absolute distances to place notes to define unique groups. In this example the note management application compares ratios of distances between nearest notes to establish natural groupings.

In some examples note management application may be configured to detect a template of group indicators. For example if the user places a printed template on the wall with a known design note management application may automatically establish the location of the physical notes relative to the printed template. In one example the template may be a calendar and the notes may represent tasks or events placed on the calendar. Upon processing an image of the workspace including the template and plurality of physical notes note management application determines the task event as taking place on a specific date based on the location of the note within the template. Templates could either be printed and adhered to the wall or simply projected onto the wall surface.

Moreover although described by way of example to detection of physical group indicators detected within an input image the technique may be applied to detection of one or more group indicators gestured or otherwise entered by the user upon interacting with a presence sensitive display of mobile device or other device.

In some examples techniques may include using multiple detection modules to recognize notes and extract the content of the plurality of notes such as a color detection module a shape detection module and a pattern detection module as described in . In one example of the color detection module the technique may include using color spaces such as the RGB HSV CIELAB etc. to identify regions of interest corresponding to the notes for color recognition. In other examples of the shape detection module and the pattern detection module the notes are further distinguished in their shape and due to the presence of unique patterns detected by shape recognition e.g. Hough transform shape context etc. and pattern recognition algorithms e.g. Support Vector Machine cross correlation template matching etc. respectively. These algorithms help filter out unwanted objects in the input image or other sources of notes content and leave only those regions of interest corresponding to the notes.

In some examples techniques may further include a computing device such as cloud server computer system and or mobile devices which are configured to gather content and group indications of the plurality of notes and display the plurality of notes according to the grouping or order of the notes as shown in . In another example a computer system may be configured to execute any variation of techniques . In another example a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions that cause a programmable processor to execute may execute any variation of techniques .

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented at least in part in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example various aspects of the described techniques including the disclosed mobile device cloud and or computer system may be implemented within one or more processors including one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components.

Such hardware software and firmware may be implemented within the same device or within separate devices to support the various techniques described in this disclosure. In addition any of the described units modules or components may be implemented together or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices. Depiction of different features as modules or units is intended to highlight different functional aspects and does not necessarily imply that such modules or units must be realized by separate hardware firmware or software components. Rather functionality associated with one or more modules or units may be performed by separate hardware firmware or software components or integrated within common or separate hardware firmware or software components.

The techniques described in this disclosure may also be embodied or encoded in a computer readable medium such as a transitory or non transitory computer readable storage medium containing instructions. Instructions embedded or encoded in a computer readable medium including a computer readable storage medium may cause one or more programmable processors or other processors such one or more processors included in a control system to implement one or more of the techniques described herein such as when instructions included or encoded in the computer readable medium are executed by the one or more processors. Non transitory computer readable storage media may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory a hard disk a compact disc ROM CD ROM a floppy disk a cassette magnetic media optical media or other computer readable media. In some examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

Various examples of this disclosure have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

