---

title: Enhanced biometric security measures
abstract: Functionality is disclosed for enhancing the security of a computing device equipped with a fingerprint input device. A pre-unlock operation is performed when a duress fingerprint is used to access a locked device. The pre-unlock operation may include one or more computer-implemented mechanisms to secure, hide, remove, move, encrypt, disassociate, communicate or modify data stored on the device and/or remote locations. In some embodiments, the pre-unlock operation may direct a device to capture information and communicate such information to remote computers contemporaneously with the receipt of a duress fingerprint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218474&OS=09218474&RS=09218474
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09218474
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140113
---
The use of biometric technologies such as fingerprint recognition technologies to unlock frequently accessed computing devices may increase user convenience. However when compared to devices that utilize only passwords devices that use biometric security measures can be more susceptible to access without the willing participation of the user. For example when a device is equipped with a fingerprint reader configured to unlock the device the security of the device may be compromised if the user is asleep unconscious under duress or in another state where one of the user s fingers may be utilized to unlock the device without the user s consent. In another example fingerprints may be lifted from objects and used to access a device equipped with a fingerprint reader. These security issues in some cases may dissuade users from relying on these types of biometric security measures.

The technologies described herein may be utilized to enhance the security of a computing device equipped with a fingerprint reader by performing a pre unlock operation when a pre defined fingerprint referred to herein as a duress fingerprint or a duress input is detected. In embodiments disclosed herein the pre unlock operation may include one or more computer implemented mechanisms to secure hide remove move encrypt disassociate modify or communicate data stored on the computing device and or in remote locations. The pre unlock operation is performed prior to unlocking the device for use. The pre unlock operations described above may be utilized to enhance the security of a device if a user is compelled to access the device under duress or if other types of unauthorized access are attempted. In addition such mechanisms may improve user privacy by concealing sensitive information in a circumstance where a device is shared with others. As described in more detail below the pre unlock operation can be configured to execute without making the operation readily apparent that the device is performing additional operations before or while a device is transitioning to an unlocked state. Additional details regarding these and other aspects presented herein will be described below.

According to embodiments presented herein a computing device includes a biometric input device for reading an input fingerprint from a user. In illustrative embodiments the computing device can be configured to associate data identifying a first fingerprint referred to herein as a unlock fingerprint or a primary input with an unlock operation that transitions the device from a locked state to an unlocked state in a traditional fashion. The computing device may also be configured to associate data identifying a second fingerprint with a pre unlock operation.

To transition the computing device from a locked state to an unlocked state a user provides an input fingerprint to an input device of the computing device. Computer implemented mechanisms implemented by the computing device generate and utilize data identifying the input fingerprint to determine if the input fingerprint is associated with the first fingerprint or the second fingerprint. If the input fingerprint is associated with the first fingerprint the computing device performs the unlock operation and transitions the computing device from the locked state to the unlocked state in a traditional fashion. If however the input fingerprint is associated with the second fingerprint the computing device performs a pre unlock operation before transitioning the computing device from the locked state to the unlocked state.

According to various embodiments the pre unlock operation can include one or more computer implemented mechanisms to secure hide remove disassociate associate encrypt move communicate and or modify data stored on the computing device or stored at one or more remote locations. In describing a non limiting illustrative embodiment if a computing device is accessed using a fingerprint associated with the pre unlock operation the pre unlock operation can cause the computing device to execute a factory reset operation before transitioning the computing device to an unlocked state. In other embodiments a pre unlock operation can be configured to delete all or selected portions of stored user data before the computing device transitions to an unlocked state. For example embodiments of the pre unlock operation may remove data associated with a particular email account specific email messages a password manager an application browser data and or any other selected data. In other embodiments the pre unlock operation may delete one or more encryption keys stored on a device.

In other embodiments the pre unlock operation may be configured to hide selected data before the computing device transitions to an unlocked state. In a non limiting example a pre unlock operation may be configured to hide information associated with a particular email account if the device is accessed using a duress input. In another non limiting example a user may elect to have their use history such as Web browsing history and or one or more particular contact names hidden from display if the device is accessed using a duress input. The data can remain hidden until the device is locked and subsequently accessed using another designated fingerprint associated with an unlock operation. Embodiments of the pre unlock operation can be configured with data filters to delete hide modify or otherwise process specific information. For instance and as described in more detail below a user modified configuration file may enable an embodiment of a pre unlock operation to delete or hide text messages associated with a particular phone number or phonebook entry.

In addition to deleting or hiding data embodiments of the pre unlock operation may also use alternative profile data to display an alternative operating environment when a device is accessed using a duress input. The alternative profiles can include innocuous user selected account information such as images applications and other personal information to mitigate any impression that the device is utilizing an alternative user profile also referred to herein as an alternative mode or a safe mode. 

In another embodiment the pre unlock operation may be configured to modify data. For example such embodiments of the pre unlock operation may modify data such as email messages instant messages text messages or browsing data to remove or edit preselected entries or specific types of data. In addition embodiments of the pre unlock operation may install or uninstall applications. Other embodiments of the pre unlock operation may have a range of filtering features to hide modify or delete items such as call record phonebook entry or emails that are associated with a particular contact name. As described above configuration or security data may be used by embodiments of the pre unlock operation to determine an action for individual records files data objects or categories of user information. In addition to using user controlled configuration files embodiments of the pre unlock operation may also use default configuration or security settings that associate operations such as a delete or modify operation with individual records files data objects or categories of user information.

In yet another illustrative embodiment a pre unlock operation may reconfigure security data stored on a computing device and or at remote locations. In one illustrative example a computing device stores data of a first fingerprint that is associated with and used to invoke an unlock operation. The computing device also stores data of a second fingerprint that is associated with and used to invoke the pre unlock operation. When the second fingerprint is used to access the computing device the pre unlock operation may delete the data of the first fingerprint and associate the data of the second fingerprint with the unlock operation. Any associated data stored at a remote server can be modified or removed in a similar way. In this embodiment the pre unlock operation enables access to the computing device using the duress input without risking a potential disclosure of a primary fingerprint for accessing the computing device.

In other embodiments the pre unlock operation may obtain and or share many types of information and invoke one or more local or remote actions. For example if a duress input is detected the pre unlock operation may send instructions to a remote computer to provide notice that a duress input was used. In other examples the pre unlock operation may send instructions to modify block or dissociate remotely stored information such as individual emails a selection of emails or an entire or multiple accounts. In another illustrative embodiment the pre unlock operation may capture record or obtain information to be sent to a remote computer. For example the pre unlock operation may control a camera of the computing device to take a picture or video of the user entering a duress input. The computing device may also obtain data describing the location of the computing device and or data received from one or more networks. Such data can be sent along with data of the input fingerprint to a remote computer. The remote computer may use that information to take one or more actions such as for example tracking the location of the computing device. In these embodiments the pre unlock operation may utilize all or any combination of any captured information for communicating with and or controlling remote computers.

As will be described in detail below various types of pre unlock operations may be utilized in conjunction with one another and the various pre unlock operations disclosed herein may be applied to the same or different sets of data. For instance as a non limiting example a pre unlock operation may be configured to hide selected contacts in a contacts lists and at the same time delete text messages associated with the same or other selected contacts. In addition to the various combination of pre unlock features the various pre unlock features can be activated deactivated and or modified depending on other information. For instance various pre unlock features can be activated deactivated or modified based on the geographical location of the computing device and or the time a fingerprint input is received. The various pre unlock features can be activated deactivated or modified based on many other types of information such as data from a motion sensor camera or any other input device. In one non limiting illustrative embodiment the pre unlock operation may delete an email account on a computing device if the computing device is within a designated region but the pre unlock operation may also direct a remote server to delete all emails if the computing device is outside the designated region. Additional details regarding these and other aspects of the technologies presented herein will be provided below with regard to .

It should be appreciated that the subject matter presented herein may be implemented as a computer process a computer controlled apparatus a computing system or an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute on one or more computing devices those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that aspects of the subject matter described herein may be practiced on or in conjunction with other computer system configurations beyond those described herein including multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers handheld computers personal digital assistants e readers mobile telephone devices tablet computing devices special purposed hardware devices network appliances and the like. It should also be appreciated that aspects of the subject matter described herein may be practiced on or in conjunction with wearable computing devices such as a pair of glasses a watch and the like. As mentioned briefly above the embodiments described herein may be practiced in networked computing environments where tasks that may be performed by a computing device may control or direct remote computing devices that are linked through a communications network. In such environments program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. Additional details regarding the various forms of a computing device also referred to herein as a device for performing a pre unlock operation will be presented below with regard to .

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. The drawings herein are not drawn to scale. Like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures which may be referred to herein as a FIG. or FIGS. .

The computing device includes a biometric input device . In one embodiment the biometric input device is configured to receive fingerprints and generate data identifying the received fingerprints. When the biometric input device is a fingerprint reader the computing device may include a fingerprint processing module for analyzing fingerprint data received by the biometric input device . Although the biometric input device and the fingerprint processing module are shown in this illustrative embodiment it can be appreciated that other configurations for generating and analyzing fingerprint data may be utilized. For instance it can be appreciated that the biometric input device may operate alone to generate and analyze fingerprint data. Fingerprint data may be stored in a secure location of the computing device such as the security data of the mass storage device . It should be appreciated that the security data can be encrypted using any one or a number of known techniques.

The security data may also store other configuration information that associates fingerprint data with one or more operations such as an unlock operation or a pre unlock operation which are respectively performed by the unlock module and the pre unlock module . In addition in certain embodiments stored fingerprint data can be associated with other types of information. For instance stored fingerprint data can be associated with one or more time periods and one or more locations or geographical areas. In addition stored fingerprint data can be associated with image data audio data or any other type of data to be used with embodiments described herein. These associations may enable the unlock module and pre unlock module to take different actions depending on an input fingerprint and potentially other parameters such as the time that a fingerprint is entered and or a geographical location of the device at the time a fingerprint is received. Data identifying some or all of the associations described above may be referred to herein as association data .

The stored fingerprint data may also be associated with one more user profiles such as a first user profile and a second user profile . As will be described in more detail below these associations enable the unlock module and pre unlock module to present different operating environments depending on an input fingerprint and other parameters. Although user profiles are employed to describe these illustrative examples it should be appreciated that techniques disclosed herein may utilize any data structure or software capable of modifying influencing or controlling an operating environment or alternative mode of a device.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of one illustrative routine for configuring the association data and fingerprint data in a computing device will be described. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein with respect to and the other FIGS. may be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. Moreover and as described above other components or routines might perform some or all of the functionality described with regard to . However it can also be appreciated that other components of the computing device may execute or assist in the execution of various functions described below.

The implementation of the various components described herein is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing device. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the FIGS. and described herein. These operations may also be performed in parallel or in a different order than those described herein. The routine will be described in conjunction with which shows an illustrative computing device equipped with a biometric input device for receiving a fingerprint from one or more fingers of a user.

The routine begins at operation where the biometric input device receives a fingerprint entry through an appropriate sensor. A user may communicate a fingerprint of any finger by placing a selected finger over the biometric input device . Once the selected finger is placed over the biometric input device the biometric input device generates data representing the fingerprint of the selected finger.

It should be appreciated that a single fingerprint or a set of fingerprints may be used to unlock the device or to invoke other operations. A set of fingerprints may involve a multi fingerprint input where fingerprints can be entered in any order or a set of fingerprints may involve a specific sequence of fingerprints. For example operation may involve the entry of a fingerprint of a left pinky finger and a fingerprint of a right thumb. In such an example the fingerprint processing module generates data representing that set of fingerprints. As will be described in more detail below a dataset representing that set of input fingerprints can function as a fingerprint signature to unlock the device or to invoke other operations.

To assist in the facilitation of operation and the other operations described below in one illustrative embodiment the device may prompt a user to provide other information such as sequence and timing preferences along with a fingerprint entry or fingerprint entries by displaying and communicating configuration information via an appropriate user interface UI . It should also be appreciated that the biometric input device may operate with the fingerprint processing module to generate fingerprint data representing a single fingerprint or a set of fingerprints. Fingerprint data representing a set of fingerprints may also involve sequence timing and cadence parameters to allow for more complex fingerprint combinations. For illustrative purposes data representing a set of fingerprints may also be referred to herein as a dataset. 

It should also be appreciated that the biometric input device may operate alone or in conjunction with the fingerprint processing module to generate fingerprint data representing different portions of a finger hand or any other body part that produces an identifiable print. For example data representing a fingerprint entry may be produced by the presentation of one side of a fingertip and data representing another fingerprint entry may be produced by the presentation of the other side of the same fingertip. In another illustrative example the tip of a finger may produce data representing a fingerprint entry and the base of the same finger may produce data representing another fingerprint entry. Other examples may involve the presentation of a palm or any other body part that produces an identifiable print.

Next at operation the configuration module associates the generated fingerprint data with an operation based upon received user input. For example the association data may associate a particular fingerprint with an unlock operation or a pre unlock operation. As summarized above if a first fingerprint is associated with an unlock operation the presentation of that first fingerprint while the device is in a locked state causes the device to transition from the locked state to an unlocked state in a traditional fashion. If however a second fingerprint is associated with a pre unlock operation the presentation of that second fingerprint while the device is in a locked state causes the device to take one or more actions of a pre unlock operation before transitioning the device from the locked state to an unlocked state. Also disclosed herein other operations such as alternative pre unlock operations may be associated with one or more fingerprints.

Next at operation the configuration module may associate the fingerprint data with a time period. As described in more detail below the association of a fingerprint with a time period may enable a device to control when a fingerprint can activate a particular operation. For example the association data can provide an indication that a fingerprint may cause the unlock module to execute the unlock operation at all times. Alternatively a fingerprint may be associated with a specific time period that only enables that fingerprint to execute the unlock operation within or outside of that specific time period. In a non limiting example a specific fingerprint may be associated with a time period that only allows that fingerprint to be used during weekdays between 8 AM and 5 PM. This example and the others presented herein is intended to be illustrative and not limiting.

Next at operation the configuration module may associate the fingerprint data with a particular geographic location area or zone. As described in more detail below the association of fingerprint data with a location or area enables a device to control whether a particular fingerprint operates within or outside of a geographical location. In a non limiting example a specific fingerprint may be associated with location data that only allows that fingerprint to be used in a particular city state country or any other user defined geographical area. Again this particular example is meant to be illustrative and not limiting.

Next at operation the configuration module may associate the fingerprint data with other parameters. As described in more detail below the association of fingerprint data with other types of information such as an image or sound enables a device to control whether a particular fingerprint operates in conjunction with other types of input or conditions. In a non limiting example a specific fingerprint may be associated with an image of a user. Having such data stored in the security data a pre unlock operation may only enable a particular fingerprint if the camera of a device identifies an image that resembles or relates to stored image data. Such conditions can apply to sounds and or other data from a motion sensor which may indicate if the device is held in a particular orientation or direction. Again these particular examples are meant to be illustrative and not limiting.

Next at operation the configuration module determines if there are additional fingerprints to be processed for use in the configuration of the device . If it is determined that there are no additional fingerprints the routine ends at operation . However if it is determined that there are additional fingerprints the routine returns to operation where the biometric input device receives an additional fingerprint or a set of fingerprints. As summarized above aspects of operation can be facilitated by the use of a graphical UI to prompt the user to enter one or more fingerprints and communicate configuration information and or other information to the user. In addition it should also be appreciated that data describing the associations that are created between fingerprints operations and or other location and time period parameters may be stored in a secure location in a device such as the security data of the mass storage device .

It should be appreciated that a device can be configured with a number of fingerprints which may increase the security of the device . For example it can be appreciated that several iterations of the routine may be utilized to define different behaviors of the device in a number of different access scenarios. In a non limiting example configuration settings of the device may allow a fingerprint of a right thumb to unlock the device on any Monday but that same fingerprint may cause the device to perform a pre unlock operation to modify data of the device on any Tuesday. There are many options for combining the associations created in routine for increasing the security of the device . In another non limiting example a particular fingerprint combination such as a right pinky finger and right thumb may unlock the device within a particular country but that same fingerprint combination may cause the device to perform a pre unlock operation to perform a factory reset if the device is outside of that particular country during any weekend. Various mechanisms known to those skilled in the art might be utilized to determine the geographic location of the computing device .

It should also be appreciated that the device can be configured to perform various pre unlock operations. For example the device may be configured to associate the fingerprint of a right pinky finger with a pre unlock operation to delete email messages. At the same time the fingerprint of a right index finger may be associated with a pre unlock operation to delete all text messages stored on the device . As can be appreciated and as described in detail below a range of various pre unlock operations can be associated with a number of fingerprints and other parameters such as location and time parameters.

Although the configuration features illustrated in the routine and described above show associations between fingerprint data unlock operations pre unlock operations locations and time periods it should also be appreciated that the disclosed mechanisms may include different combinations of these associations. For instance security data stored on a device may only associate fingerprint data with one or more operations such as an unlock operation and one or more pre unlock operations. In addition in other embodiments the security data stored on the device may only associate fingerprint data with an unlock operation and location data. Further other configurations of the security data may only associate fingerprint data with an unlock operation and data describing one or more time periods.

In addition to establishing the above described configuration settings for associating fingerprint data with one or more operations mechanisms for associating user data with one or more pre unlock operations are also provided. As summarized above and described in greater detail below the pre unlock operations may secure hide remove move encrypt disassociate communicate or modify data stored on the device and or remote locations. To implement such mechanisms the security data may store association data for any type of file or data object. As will be described in more detail below the association data can be used by various operations to determine an action for such selected items.

In one illustrative example the security data of a device may store association data that associates certain types of information with a particular pre unlock operation that is invoked if a duress input is received. In a non limiting example email messages may be deleted if a duress input or an unknown fingerprint is used to access a device. In other examples other types of data such as encryption keys individual phonebook entries and text messages can be associated with different operations. Such association data enables a device to take different actions depending on a received fingerprint and or other parameters. As will be described in more detail below the pre unlock operations disclosed herein may utilize some or all of the configuration data described above to hide delete move or otherwise process selected information when a duress input is received.

It should also be appreciated that a process for generating and updating association data can be facilitated by the use of a graphical UI to prompt a user to enter one or more selections to customize the association data. For instance a graphical UI may list one or more items such as file names contact names categories of contacts or any other type of data and allow the user to select an action e.g. hide or delete for items on the list. Further it should be appreciated that a process for configuring and or updating the association data and fingerprint data may involve remote computers servers services or any other computing device. For instance the association data and fingerprint data of the device may be received from one or more remote computers such as the remote computer of . In addition association data and fingerprint data of the device may be communicated to a remote computing device and or service for storage. Such remote computing devices and or services may also distribute the association data and fingerprint data to other computing devices. When such configuration data is shared between devices and or remote computers multiple devices associated with a particular user may be accessed using the same fingerprint data. In addition when association data and or other data is sent from a remote computer to the device the remote computer can update security policies of the device . In one illustrative example association data and other data may be sent to the device so that the device deletes user data upon the presentation of a particular fingerprint. In another example association data and other data may be sent to the device to configure and or update a pre unlock and or an unlock operation to take one or more actions.

Referring now to a flow diagram showing aspects of one illustrative routine for receiving an input and executing a pre unlock operation according to one embodiment disclosed herein will be described. The routine begins at operation where a biometric input device of the computing device receives an input fingerprint. When a user places a selected finger over the biometric input device the biometric input device reads the fingerprint of the selected finger and generates data representing the fingerprint. For embodiments involving a multi fingerprint input computer implemented mechanisms may generate an input dataset that represents the set of received fingerprints. Sequence timing and cadence parameters might also be generated that are related to a multi fingerprint input. Such parameters may also be a part of the generated dataset.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the fingerprint processing module determines if the data representing the input fingerprint or the input dataset is associated an unlock operation. As noted above this determination may be made by the use of security data stored on the device . In such an embodiment comparisons are made between the data of the input fingerprint and data of the first fingerprint and the second fingerprint stored in the security data .

If at operation it is determined that the data representing the input fingerprint is associated with the first fingerprint and thus determining that the input fingerprint is also associated with the unlock operation the routine proceeds to operation where the unlock module transitions the device from the locked state to an unlocked state in a traditional fashion i.e. without performing a pre unlock operation . For embodiments involving a multi fingerprint input operation may determine if the input dataset is associated with a dataset stored in the security data. In such an embodiment operation would utilize an input dataset and one or more datasets stored in the security data to make the association between the input dataset and the unlock operation.

At operation if it is determined that the data representing the input fingerprint is not associated with the first fingerprint and thus determining that the input fingerprint is not associated with the unlock operation the routine proceeds to operation where the fingerprint processing module determines if the data representing the input fingerprint has been associated with a pre unlock operation. Similar to operation operation may compare data of the input fingerprint or the input dataset with one or more fingerprints or datasets stored in the security data . If at operation it is determined that the data representing the input fingerprint or the input dataset is not associated with the second fingerprint and thus determining that the input fingerprint or the input dataset is not associated with the pre unlock operation the routine returns to operation where the biometric input device may process another fingerprint input in the manner described above.

If at operation it is determined that the data representing the input fingerprint is associated with the second fingerprint and thus determining that the input fingerprint is also associated with the pre unlock operation the routine proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module performs a pre unlock operation. As summarized above the pre unlock operation may secure hide remove encrypt move or modify data. In some embodiments for example the pre unlock operation may delete user selected data. In such embodiments the device may store configuration data or security data describing user selected objects files and other predetermined groups of data to be deleted when a duress input is received. For example and as summarized above the pre unlock operation may remove data associated with a particular email account specific email messages a password manager an application browser data and or any other combination of selected data. In other examples the pre unlock operation may be configured to delete all text messages associated with a particular phone number.

In an alternative embodiment instead of or in conjunction with deleting user data a pre unlock operation may be configured to delete an encryption key when a duress input is received. In such an embodiment the device may have an encryption key that allows the device to access a volume of data that would normally be mounted upon boot. However if a duress input is received and a pre unlock operation deletes the public key the volume of data still exists but it cannot be accessed until the public key is reinstalled on the device . In the embodiments described herein it can be appreciated that the pre unlock operation may also direct services and or other networked computers to delete or modify data stored in remote locations.

In other embodiments which may operate in conjunction with or alternative to other embodiments the pre unlock operation may be configured to hide selected data. In a non limiting example a pre unlock operation may be configured to hide information related to a particular email account if a duress input is received. In another non limiting example a user may elect to have their browsing history and one or more particular contact names hidden from display if a duress input is received. This selected data can remain hidden until the device is locked and subsequently accessed using the unlock fingerprint. It should be appreciated that embodiments of the pre unlock operation may utilize configuration data or security data to enable the pre unlock operation to hide data. It should also be appreciated that the use of such configuration data or security data also allows for combinations of pre unlock operations. In one illustrative example a pre unlock operation may hide email messages stored on the device and also delete browsing data. These examples are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting.

In addition to deleting or hiding data other embodiments may include the storage and utilization of alternative profile data to allow the device to operate in an alternative operating environment when a duress input is received. For example when a duress input is received the use of alternative profile data may direct the device to provide an alternative operating environment with a blank desktop or home screen. In other examples alternative profile data may direct the device to provide an alternative operating environment with a set list of stored data such as images applications etc. The utilization of such an embodiment enables the device to diminish the appearance that a pre unlock process has been invoked or that the device may be running in a safe mode of operation. In addition the utilization of such an embodiment enables the device to quickly enter an operating environment while a pre unlock operation is running in the background to process user data. Such an embodiment also helps diminish the appearance that a pre unlock process is occurring particularly when the pre unlock operation is tasked to process large amounts of data.

Another pre unlock operation performs a factory reset. It should be appreciated that there are a number of ways to execute a factory reset on a device . For example a pre unlock operation may call application programming interfaces APIs of an operating system executing on the device to perform a factory reset. In addition to or an alternative to using the functionality of an operating system a pre unlock operation may provide additional functions to ensure user data is properly removed from the device . For example embodiments of the pre unlock operation may include procedures to write data over memory sectors or data files. In such embodiments a number of methods for overwriting and or erasing memory such as a flash memory module can be performed so that a low level examination of the memory will not reveal deleted data. This may include writing and re writing data over deleted memory sectors a number of times to remove residual traces of deleted data. As can be appreciated other processes for removing residual traces of deleted data may also be used.

In other embodiments if the operating system does not support a factory reset function the pre unlock operation may remove personal information from the device including but not limited to personal contact information call logs browsing data and the like. Such embodiments may also utilize one or more factory installed mechanisms or third party applications to reset or reinstall the operating system . For illustrative purposes the term factory reset includes any process or function that removes user data and resets the operating system and or any application or application setting to a default state or near default state which may be close to or identical to the state of the device at the time of manufacturing. Additional details regarding some pre unlock operations will be described below with regard to .

Upon completion or after the execution of operation the routine proceeds to operation where the unlock module transitions the device from the locked state to an unlocked state. Upon conclusion of the operation the routine ends at operation .

It should also be appreciated that some embodiments of routine may process operation in parallel at least in part with operation . In other embodiments routine may process operation before performing operation . Depending on the device configurations and desired performance results implementations utilizing such embodiments enable the device to diminish the appearance that a pre unlock operation is running while the device is being accessed.

In addition to being used with a duress input it should also be appreciated that a pre unlock operation may be used in conjunction with an unrecognized fingerprint. In addition it can also be appreciated that a pre unlock operation may be used in conjunction with an unlock fingerprint. For example if an unlock fingerprint is received the device may take one or more alternative actions including the actions of modifying data and maintaining a locked state of the device if the device is not in a predetermined area or if the time fingerprint input is not within a predetermined time period.

Referring now to a flow diagram showing aspects of one illustrative routine for executing a pre unlock operation that may be utilized with an unknown fingerprint or an unlock fingerprint according to one embodiment disclosed herein. Routine begins at operation where the biometric input device of the computing device receives an input fingerprint. Next at operation the fingerprint processing module determines if the data representing the input fingerprint or the input dataset is associated with an unlock operation. As described above the security data may be utilized by the fingerprint processing module to determine if there is an association between the input fingerprint and one or more operations such as the unlock operation. If at operation it is determined that the data representing the input fingerprint is associated with the unlock operation the routine proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module performs a pre unlock operation.

If at operation it is determined that the data representing the input fingerprint is not associated with the unlock operation the routine proceeds to operation where the fingerprint processing module determines if the data representing the input fingerprint has been associated with a duress input. If it is determined that the input fingerprint has been associated with a duress input the routine proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module performs another pre unlock operation. However if it is determined that the input fingerprint has not been associated with a duress input and thus it is determined that the input fingerprint is an unknown fingerprint i.e. has not been previously defined as an unlock fingerprint or a duress fingerprint the routine proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module may perform another pre unlock operation.

Upon completion or after the execution of operations or the routine proceeds to operation where the unlock module transitions the device from the locked state to an unlocked state. Upon conclusion of the operation the routine ends at operation . By use of routine one or more pre unlock operations which may be based on one or more parameters in the security data may be used to protect or delete data even if a primary fingerprint or an unknown fingerprint is received.

Referring now to additional details regarding several illustrative pre unlock operations will be will be provided. As summarized above pre unlock operations may include securing hiding removing encrypting moving communicating or modifying data stored on the computing device and or stored at remote locations. As described below and shown in various pre unlock operations may be performed individually or in combination.

The routine A starts at operation where the pre unlock module modifies data associated with the first user profile . In one embodiment the operation may utilize security data or a configuration file to identify an operation that may apply to selected data. For instance the security data or the configuration file may provide an indication that all encryption keys associated with the first user profile are to be deleted. Such an embodiment reduces the need to delete all user data and access to such user data can be achieved by a subsequent introduction of the deleted encryption key.

In other examples operation may delete the first user profile from memory. In other embodiments operation may encrypt all or part of the first user profile . As described herein there are a number of other actions that can be performed to modify data. Thus these examples are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting.

Next at operation security data stored on the device is modified or used to prepare the device to enter an operating environment that is based on the second user profile when the device is unlocked operation of . Operation may involve the modification of the security data of a device such that the second user profile appears to be the primary operating mode of the device . In addition the second user profile may contain dummy data to mitigate the appearance that the device has entered a safe mode. Dummy data may include user selected data that gives the appearance the second user profile is being used. For instance the second user profile may be configured with images account information contacts and other information which may include a subset of data of the first user profile or pre selected data. Next the routine A proceeds to operation where the routine returns to operation of .

Referring to the routine B begins at operation where the pre unlock module deletes the data of the first fingerprint. In this operation data describing identifying or related to the first fingerprint can be removed from the device. For embodiments involving a multi fingerprint input operation may delete the dataset that includes one or more primary fingerprints used for accessing the device. In such an embodiment operation may also remove other accompanying data including data describing any type of fingerprint input sequencing timing etc. In some embodiments operation may involve the removal of other user data that has been marked for deletion in the event a duress input is received. In addition some embodiments of operation may involve the removal of an encryption key used to access data related to the first fingerprint. Such an embodiment reduces the need to delete all user data and access to such user data is possible with a subsequent introduction of the encryption key.

From operation the routine B proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module associates the second fingerprint i.e. the duress fingerprint with the unlock operation. From operation the routine B proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module disassociates the second fingerprint from the pre unlock operation. From operation the routine B proceeds to operation where the routine returns to operation of or operation of . It should also be appreciated that with these modifications to the security data the device can be accessed using the second fingerprint while mitigating the risk of exposing the original security data settings.

Referring to the routine C begins at operation where the pre unlock module records obtains and or captures data. As summarized above embodiments of operation may include the use of any input device such as a camera motion sensor microphone GPS device and or a fingerprint reader. When a duress input is received data from such devices can be captured or recorded. It should also be appreciated that operation may utilize data from other remote devices such as a web cam a location tracking service or any other user selected service or resource.

Next at operation the recorded captured data is communicated to a remote device server service and or any other designated resource. As summarized above operation may include the communication of video or image data captured during the receipt of the fingerprint data describing the received fingerprint location information and or any other recorded audio. Although the above described embodiments involve the process of recoding data it should be appreciated that the data described above may not be stored on the device as operation may involve real time communication of such information without the need for the device to record or store the data. It should also be appreciated that data that was already stored on the device may be flagged in a configuration setting for communication in operation . Thus data that has been stored prior to the execution of operation such as existing images or user profile data may be communicated in operation .

In other embodiments of operation the device may communicate information instructions or other control data to a remote computing device. For instance in a non limiting example operation may provide notice to another system that a duress input has been received. At the same time operation may provide instructions to a remote computer to delete an email a block of email messages or an entire account or multiple accounts. In addition operation may disassociate the device from any remote applications or services. In other embodiments operation may provide instructions to a remote computer to track the location of the computing device or take other actions. Such embodiments of the pre unlock operation may utilize all or any combination of such recorded or stored information for communicating with and or controlling remote computers or services. Next the routine C proceeds to operation where the routine returns to operation of or operation of .

As summarized above the data communicated in routine C enables a remote service or remote computer to perform one or more actions. If location data is communicated a remote computer may track the location of the device . If image or audio information is communicated such information may be used to identify a user of the device . In other examples location and fingerprint data may be communicated to a remote computer where it may be used to verify and or validate a fingerprint entry. In one illustrative example if time and location data is communicated to a remote computer with each fingerprint entry the remote computer may detect other contextual inconsistencies. In such an example if a fingerprint is used twice with only 5 minutes between each entry and each entry occurred in respective locations that are over 500 miles from one another the remote computer may initiate one or more alarms and or take other action which may include erasing user data. These examples are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting.

Referring to the routine D begins at operation where the pre unlock module obtains information describing the location of the device . As can be appreciated the location of the device can be obtained using a number of techniques. For example in a non limiting example information describing the location of the device can be retrieved by the use of a GPS device such as the GPS device shown in . The location of the device can also be obtained by the use of network data from a local area network or other like systems. These examples are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting.

Next at operation the pre unlock module determines if the location of the device is within a predetermined location or a geographical location. Embodiments of operation may utilize location information stored in the security data as described above with reference to . If it is determined that the device is not within the predetermined location the operation D proceeds to operation where pre unlock module performs a first alternative pre unlock operation. However if is determined that the device is within the predetermined geographical location the routine D proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module performs a second alternative pre unlock operation.

In applying routine D to an illustrative example the first alternative pre unlock operation may be configured to delete all emails on the computing device . In addition the first alternative pre unlock operation may also direct an online service to delete all email messages stored on a remote server. The second alternative pre unlock operation may be configured to just delete all email messages on the computing device . Thus the routine D illustrates one pre unlock operation that can take different actions depending on the location of the device . From operation or the routine D proceeds to operation where the routine returns to operation of or operation of .

It should also be appreciated that an alternative pre unlock operation may include any function or any combination of functions described herein. For instance an alternative pre unlock may secure hide remove move encrypt disassociate communicate or modify data stored on the device and or remote locations. In addition an alternative pre unlock operation may be configured to take no action. Thus if a device is in a locked state and such an embodiment of an alternative pre unlock operation is executed the device may remain in the locked state.

Referring now to another pre unlock operation that utilizes timing parameters is shown and described. As also summarized above the pre unlock operation may be activated deactivated or modified depending on the time a fingerprint input is received. The routine E shows one illustrative embodiment of a pre unlock operation that utilizes timing parameters.

The routine E begins at operation where the pre unlock module obtains the current time. As can be appreciated the current time can be obtained using a number of techniques. For example among other non limiting examples operation may utilize a clock of the device. Alternatively or in addition to the use of a clock time and date information may be obtained by the use of a remote service data retrieved from network traffic or any other data maintained on or communicated to the device .

Next at operation the pre unlock module determines if the time of the input fingerprint is within a predetermined time period. Operation may utilize the time period information stored in the security data as described above with reference to . If it is determined that the time of the input fingerprint is not within the predetermined time period the operation E proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module performs a first alternative pre unlock operation. However if it is determined that the time of the input fingerprint is within the predetermined time period the operation E proceeds to operation where the pre unlock module performs a second alternative pre unlock operation.

In applying routine E to an illustrative example the first alternative pre unlock operation may be configured to delete an encryption key stored on the computing device . The second alternative pre unlock operation may be configured to send data representing the input fingerprint to a remote server and perform a factory reset operation on the device . Thus the routine E shows another pre unlock operation that can take different actions depending on the time an input fingerprint is received. From operation or the routine E proceeds to operation where the routine returns to operation of or operation of .

Although illustrate example routines that include two alternative pre unlock operations it can be appreciated that a device may be configured with a number of alternative pre unlock operations each of which could be associated with unique fingerprints or fingerprint combinations. In one illustrative example there may be ten different alternative pre unlock operations each of which can be associated with a different fingerprint or fingerprint combination. This example is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting as there could be many more variations of pre unlock or alternative pre unlock operations embodied in a device .

It can also be appreciated that each alternative pre unlock operation may be triggered by a number of other parameters or conditions in addition to or instead of conditions based on location and time period information. For instance one example alternative pre unlock operation may be invoked if an input fingerprint occurred within a time period while the device is in a particular location and while the device was being held in a specific orientation relative to the ground. For such an embodiment data from an accelerometer or motion sensor of can be used to determine for instance if the device was being held with the screen facing the ground or in an upright position.

The computing device includes a baseboard or motherboard which is a printed circuit board to which a multitude of components or devices may be connected by way of a system bus or other electrical communication paths. In one illustrative embodiment one or more central processing units CPUs operate in conjunction with a chipset . The CPUs may be standard programmable processors that perform arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computing device .

The CPUs perform operations by transitioning from one discrete physical state to the next through the manipulation of switching elements that differentiate between and change these states. Switching elements may generally include electronic circuits that maintain one of two binary states such as flip flops and electronic circuits that provide an output state based on the logical combination of the states of one or more other switching elements such as logic gates. These basic switching elements may be combined to create more complex logic circuits including registers adders subtractors arithmetic logic units floating point units and the like.

The chipset provides an interface between the CPUs and the remainder of the components and devices on the baseboard . The chipset may provide an interface to a RAM used as the main memory in the computing device . The chipset may further provide an interface to a computer readable storage medium such as a read only memory ROM or non volatile RAM NVRAM for storing basic routines that help to startup the computing device and to transfer information between the various components and devices. The ROM or NVRAM may also store other software components necessary for the operation of the computing device in accordance with the embodiments described herein.

The computing device may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computing devices and computer systems through a network such as the local area network . The chipset may include functionality for providing network connectivity through a network interface controller NIC such as a gigabit Ethernet adapter. The NIC is capable of connecting the computing device to other computing devices over the network . It should be appreciated that multiple NICs may be present in the computing device connecting the computer to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The local area network allows the computing device to communicate with remote services and servers that may be implemented on a remote computer .

The computing device may be connected to a mass storage device that provides non volatile storage for the computing device. The mass storage device may store system programs application programs other program modules and data which have been described in greater detail herein. The mass storage device may be connected to the computing device through a storage controller connected to the chipset . The mass storage device may consist of one or more physical storage units. The storage controller may interface with the physical storage units through a serial attached SCSI SAS interface a serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface a fiber channel FC interface or other type of interface for physically connecting and transferring data between computers and physical storage units. It should also be appreciated that the mass storage device other storage media and the storage controller may include MultiMediaCard MMC components eMMC components Secure Digital SD components PCI Express components or the like.

The computing device may store data on the mass storage device by transforming the physical state of the physical storage units to reflect the information being stored. The specific transformation of physical state may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the physical storage units whether the mass storage device is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like.

For example the computing device may store information to the mass storage device by issuing instructions through the storage controller to alter the magnetic characteristics of a particular location within a magnetic disk drive unit the reflective or refractive characteristics of a particular location in an optical storage unit or the electrical characteristics of a particular capacitor transistor or other discrete component in a solid state storage unit. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this description. The computing device may further read information from the mass storage device by detecting the physical states or characteristics of one or more particular locations within the physical storage units.

In addition to the mass storage device described above the computing device may have access to other computer readable storage media to store and retrieve information such as program modules data structures or other data. Thus although the security data and other modules are depicted as data and software stored in the mass storage device it should be appreciated that the security data and or other modules may be stored at least in part in other computer readable storage media of the device . It should also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable storage media is any available media that provides for the non transitory storage of data and that may be accessed by the computing device .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology compact disc ROM CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD high definition DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information in a non transitory fashion.

The mass storage device may store an operating system utilized to control the operation of the computing device . According to one embodiment the operating system comprises the LINUX operating system. According to another embodiment the operating system comprises the WINDOWS operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation. According to further embodiments the operating system may comprise the UNIX Android Windows Phone or iOS operating systems. It should be appreciated that other operating systems may also be utilized. The mass storage device may store other system or application programs and data utilized by the computing device such as the security data association data fingerprint data and or any of the other software components and data described above. The mass storage device may also store data for one or more user profiles to implement aspects of the computer implemented mechanisms disclosed herein. For example the mass storage device may store a first user profile and a second user profile to enable embodiments of the device to present different operating environments. The mass storage device might also store other programs and data not specifically identified herein.

In one embodiment the mass storage device or other computer readable storage media is encoded with computer executable instructions which when loaded into the computing device transform the computer from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computer capable of implementing the embodiments described herein. These computer executable instructions transform the computing device by specifying how the CPUs transition between states as described above. According to one embodiment the computing device has access to computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions which when executed by the computing device perform the various routines described above with regard to and A E. The computing device might also include computer readable storage media for performing any of the other computer implemented operations described herein.

The computing device may also include one or more input output controllers for receiving and processing input from a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a headset a touchpad a touch screen an electronic stylus or any other type of input device. Also shown the input output controllers is in communication with a biometric input device . Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display such as a computer monitor a flat panel display a digital projector a printer a plotter or other type of output device. The computing device may also include a GPS device for detecting and monitoring the geographical location of the computing device . In addition the computing device may also include a camera and a motion sensor . It will be appreciated that the motion sensor may include one or more accelerometers that can determine the device s orientation relative to the ground e.g. upside down right side up etc. It will be appreciated that the computing device may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for receiving an input fingerprint and performing a pre unlock operation have been presented herein. Moreover although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and media are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

