---

title: Incognito mode in a media application
abstract: Implementations of the disclosed subject matter provide techniques for operating a media application in an incognito mode. A method may include operating a media application in a first mode and providing a first indication of a first user action in the media application to a media application provider. Next, an instruction may be received to operate the media application in a second mode. A second indication of a second user action may be received in the media application and the second user action may be performed. Then, the second indication of the second user action may be discarded without providing the second indication of the second user action to the media application provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602609&OS=09602609&RS=09602609
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09602609
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140328
---
In general media applications are typically connected to media service providers via the cloud and in some cases to a social network which can help with media content discovery and allow for better tailoring of a media experience for a particular user. However there are times when a user may wish to keep his media history and media preferences private from a media service provider and unlinked to a social network. For example a user may be a parent and may have children who wish to repeatedly listen to The Wiggles i.e. children s media content while operating a media application associated with the parent s account and or device. Because the user has repeatedly listened to The Wiggles in the media application a media service provider may recommend media content similar to The Wiggles such as Yo Gabba Gabba or the media service provider may indicate to the user s connections via a social network that the user s favorite artist is The Wiggles. This may be detrimental to the user if the user does not wish to receive media content recommendations similar to The Wiggles and or if the user does not wish to provide undesired or inaccurate information about the user s media content preferences to the user s social network.

According to an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter a method may include operating a media application in a first mode and providing a first indication of a first user action in the media application to a media application provider. Next an instruction may be received to operate the media application in a second mode. A second indication of a second user action may be received in the media application and the second user action may be performed. Then the second indication of the second user action may be discarded without providing the second indication of the second user action to the media application provider.

An implementation of the disclosed subject matter provides a system including a processor configured to operate a media application in a first mode and provide a first indication of a first user action in the media application to a media application provider. An instruction to operate the media application in a second mode may be received. A second indication of a second user action in the media application may be received and the second user action may be performed. Next the second indication of the second user action may be discarded without providing the second indication of the second user action to the media application provider.

An implementation of the disclosed subject matter provides a system which includes means for operating a media application in a first mode and means providing a first indication of a first user action in the media application to a media application provider. The system may also include means for receiving an instruction to operate the media application in a second mode and means for receiving a second indication of a second user action in the media application. Next the system may also include means for performing the second user action and means for discarding the second indication of the second user action without providing the second indication of the second user action to the media application provider.

Implementations of the disclosed subject matter provide techniques for operating a media application in an incognito mode. The present disclosure provides a feature in a media application that allows a user to take action in the media application such as activating e.g. play listen view etc. media content while in an incognito mode without providing an indication of his actions to a media application provider. In particular with a simple switch to incognito mode a user can prevent receiving embarrassing inaccurate or undesirable media content recommendations from a media application provider. Additionally a user may prevent sharing of embarrassing inaccurate and or undesirable media content preferences to his social network. Additional features advantages and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter may be set forth or apparent from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary and the following detailed description are examples and are intended to provide further explanation without limiting the scope of the claims.

In general a media application is typically connected to a media application provider which may provide media content to the media application. This media content may be any content that may be activated in a media application such as an album a song a movie a video a show a book a magazine a playlist a category of media content and the like and media content may be activated by any user action such as playing selecting or viewing media content in the media application. In some cases a media application provider may provide media content suggestions based on a user s actions within a media application. For example if a user plays a song A a media service provider may recommend another song B having similar attributes to song A based on the user s action i.e. playing song A in the media application. In some cases a user s actions in a media application may be shared with the user s social network. For example if a user plays song A by the artist Party Chick multiple times an indication that the user likes the artist Party Chick may be shared with the user s social network. In general a user s experience in a media application may be improved when the user receives desirable media content recommendations and when desirable and or accurate information is shared with a user s social network. In addition a media application provider may help with media content discovery and allow for better tailoring of a media experience for a particular user. However there are times when it may be desirable for a user to keep his actions within a media application and or his media preferences private from a media application provider and the user may not wish for certain of his actions in a media application to be provided to his social network.

The present disclosure provides an incognito mode feature in a media application that discards a user s action taken within a media application without providing an indication of the user s action to a media application provider. For example upon operating a media application in an incognito mode a user action within the media application such as an activation e.g. playing listening viewing etc. of media content may not be indicated to a media application provider. For example a user action taken while the media application is operating in incognito mode may prevent the user action from being stored or used by a media application provider for providing media content recommendations and or input to the user s social network. According to an implementation a user may turn on the incognito mode feature on a device causing the device to not send any requests to a media application provider e.g. requests for media content recommendations requests to share info via a social network and the like except for a request to receive a media content stream. For example when in incognito mode the following actions may be disabled requests to the media application provider to increase play count requests to post to a social network stream requests to update the user s media content recommendations and landing screen based on user action taken while in incognito mode and the like. When in incognito mode a user s actions such as the user s media activation activity will remain private and from the perspective of a media application provider will be as though the user never took those actions such as activation of media content that was activated while in incognito mode.

In addition to an incognito mode a particular device may be designated as an incognito device. In this case for example a user could set a device as incognito such that any actions taken in a media application such as activation of media content on that device may not be indicated to a media application provider. For example a user action on an incognito device may not be provided to stored or used by a media application provider for providing media content recommendations or social network input. As an example a parent may designate a child s tablet device as an incognito device such that an indication of a user action taken in a media application on the child s tablet device may not be provided to a media application provider. As a result actions taken on the child s table device such as activation of particular media content may not affect the media content recommendations received from the media application provider for the parent s media account. Similarly an incognito location may be set indicating that when a device is detected at a certain location user action taken in the media application while the device is located in an incognito location may not be indicated to a media application provider. For example a user may set his workplace as an incognito location such that once his device is detected at his workplace location his user actions in the media application will not be indicated to a media application provided. Further an incognito time period may be set during which incognito mode may be automatically turned on in a media application such that an indication of the user s actions taken in the media application during the incognito time period will not be provided to a media application provider.

Additionally particular media content and or category of media content may be designated as incognito. For example a user may designate certain radio stations playlists genres albums artists and the like as incognito such that a user action associated with incognito media content may not be provided to a media application provider. As in the example above with the parent and child the parent may designate the artists The Wiggles and Katy Perry as incognito. As a result indication s of user action associated with The Wiggles and or Katy Perry in a media application may not be provided to a media application provider. For example no matter how frequently media content from either of these artists is activated from the perspective of a media application provider it will appear that the user has never activated media content associated with those artists.

In general the present disclosure provides a media application that may be operated in an incognito mode. While operating in incognito mode an indication of a user action taken in the media application may not be provided to a media application provider. shows an example process according to an implementation of the disclosed subject matter. As shown a media application may be operated in a first mode at . A media application may be any application for presenting media content and in which a user may take an action. For example a media application may be an application in which media content may be activated by a user. Media content may be any content that may be presented in a media application such as an album a song a movie a video a show a book a magazine a playlist a category of media content a landing page a radio station and the like. A category of media content may be any category in which media content may be categorized such as new releases recently purchased media content recommended media content a library of media content a playlist an album an artist a radio station a genre and the like. A user action in a media application may be any user action that may be taken in a media application such as controlling searching deleting and or activating media content. Media content may be activated by playing selecting or viewing media content or a category of media content in the media application.

A first user action may be performed by the media application for example a user may select a song and the song may be played by the media application. Referring back to a first indication of a first user action in the media application may be provided to a media application provider at . A media application provider may be the provider of a media application and or media content. In some cases a media application provider and a media application may be managed by the same entity. As used herein operation of a media application in a first mode at may be a mode for example a normal operational mode in which indications of user actions within the media application are provided to a media application provider. As mentioned above a media application provider may receive indications of a user s actions in a media application. In some cases a media application provider may receive store and or use indications of user actions in a media application for various purposes. For example a media application provider may use an indication of a user action in a media application to provide a recommendation for relevant media content and or category of media content. A media application provider may also use an indication of a user action to provide input to a social network account associated with a user. When a media application is operating in a normal mode the media application may provide various requests to a media application provider. For example a media application may request media content request to increase play count request to provide input to a social network request media content recommendations for a user request a custom landing screen associated with a user and or request other content associated with a user e.g. a preferred radio station a playlist from a media application provider. Any other media content data and or information that may be used when operating the media application in normal mode may be requested by a media application and or provided by a media application provider.

An instruction to operate the media application in a second mode may be received at . As used herein operation of a media application in a second mode may be a mode for example an incognito operational mode in which indications of user actions within the media application are discarded and are not provided to a media application provider. A second indication of a second user action in the media application may be received at and the second user action may be performed at . For example the user may select a particular song to be played and as a result the song may be played in the media application. Because the media application is operating in the second mode i.e. incognito mode upon receiving the second indication of the second user action the second indication may be discarded. In particular the second indication of the second user action may be discarded without providing the second indication to the media application provider at .

An instruction to operate the media application in the second mode may be based on a setting such as a system setting a default setting a user setting and like. In some cases the instruction to operate in the second mode may be based on a selection received from a user. For example a user may select to operate a media application in an incognito mode by selecting a portion of an interface in the media application such as by tapping or clicking on an incognito mode button or icon in the media application or performing a gesture indicating a request to enter incognito mode.

In addition an instruction to operate in incognito mode may be based on a variety of factors. According to an implementation an instruction to operate in a second mode may be based on the current time and day. For example a media application may automatically be instructed to operate in incognito mode during a specific time day date time period and the like. As an example a user may wish to automatically turn on incognito mode in a media application every day from 8 00 am to 9 00 am on Wednesdays from 3 30 pm to 4 30 pm on Saturdays and on Mar. 15 2014. As a result the media application may automatically receive an instruction to operate in incognito mode when the current time and day satisfies any of these day time settings. According to an implementation an instruction to operate in a second mode may be based on the second user action. In some cases the second user action may be a request for a media content item in a first category of media content. For example a media application may be instructed to automatically operate in incognito mode when a user action is a request for particular media content in a specific category of media content. As an example a user may wish to automatically turn on incognito mode in a media application when any song by artist A is activated or when any song in the kids genre is activated. As a result the media application may automatically receive an instruction to operate in incognito mode when a song by artist A is activated or when a song such as the song Itsy Bitsy Spider i.e. in the kids genre is activated.

In some cases operation of a media application may be associated with a user account which may be associated with a user. Because a media application may be associated with a user account a media application associated with a particular user account may be operated on multiple different devices. For example a user having a user account may operate a media application on multiple devices such as a smartphone a tablet a laptop a wearable device a media player a TV a set top box an e reader a PC and any other device on which a media application may operate. According to an implementation an instruction to operate in a second mode may be based on a device on which the media application is operating. For example a media application may be instructed to automatically operate in incognito mode when a user action is received by the media application on a particular device. As an example a user such as a parent may wish to automatically turn on incognito mode in a media application when the media application is being operated on a child s tablet device. As a result the media application may automatically receive an instruction to operate in incognito mode when any indication of a user action is received in the media application on the child s tablet device. An advantage of this feature is that the user account associated with the parent may not be affected by actions taken by the child on the child s tablet device. For example media content recommendations associated with the parent s user account may be based on user actions taken by the parent rather than user actions taken by the child. In an implementation the media application may be operated in the first mode on a first device and in the second mode on a second device. As in the example above the media application may operate on the parent s smartphone device in a normal mode while the media application may operate on the child s tablet device in incognito mode. According to an implementation a method may also include receiving a location of a device on which the media application is operating and an instruction to operate in a second mode may be based on the location of the device. For example a media application may be instructed to automatically operate in incognito mode when the location of the device on which the media application is operating is determined to be in a particular location. As an example a user may wish to automatically turn on incognito mode in a media application when the user is at the gym. As a result the media application may automatically receive an instruction to operate in incognito mode when the device is determined to be located at the location of the gym. The location of a device may be received based on any positioning technique geolocation technique and or sensor s on the device e.g. GPS and the like .

As mentioned above a media application provider may provide various media content categories of media content and other data content to a media application. In some cases a media application may receive from the media application provider one or more media content suggestions based on one or more user actions taken while operating the media application in a normal mode. For example a media activation history associated with a user or user account may be used by a media application provider to recommend media content that the user is likely to enjoy. As an example while operating a media application in a normal mode the song Eggplant by the artist Taj may be played. Because this user action was taken while operating in normal mode an indication of the user s action playing the song Eggplant by Taj may be provided to a media application provider. As a result a media application provider may recommend media content having similar attributes e.g. by the same or similar artist in the same or similar genre from the same or similar album etc. to the song Eggplant by Taj. On the other hand while operating a media application in incognito mode the song Happy by Party Chick may be played. Because this user action was taken while operating in incognito mode an indication of the user s action playing the song Happy by Party Chick may be discarded and may not be provided to a media application provider. Accordingly media content recommendations from the media application provider may not be affected by the user s action playing the song Happy by Party Chick.

According to an implementation a user may view all media content associated with his user account which has been stored and or used by a media application provider for example based on previous indications of user actions provided to the media application provider. In this case a user may wish to retroactively remove particular media content associated with this account. In this case the particular media content may be removed and no longer associate with his user account as if the media application provider never received indications of user action related to the particular media content. In addition the user may also choose for indications of user actions associated with this particular media content be discarded and not provided to a media application provider. For example the user may designate the particular media content as incognito as described above.

In some cases the interface in a media application may appear to a user the same when operating the media application in normal mode or incognito mode with the exception of a button or indicator that may indicate if incognito mode is on off. However operation of a media application in normal mode or incognito mode may affect the backend operation of the media application and in some cases the communication of the media application with a media application provider. In particular operating a media application in incognito mode may cause indications of user actions to be discarded and not be provided to a media application provider. show an example system arrangement according to an implementation of the disclosed subject matter. In general each describe the same media application in particular shows the media application operating in a normal mode and shows the media application operating in incognito mode. As shown in a media application operating in normal mode may include a user interface UI media player component and a backend application programming interface API component . The media application may communicate with a media application provider . The user interface UI media player component may receive indications of user actions and may provide these indications of user actions to the backend API component . As a result the backend API component may provide the indications of the user actions to the media application provider . The media application provider may provide media content to the backend API component of the media application . Accordingly the backend API component may provide the media content to the UI media player component . The media content provided by the media application provider may include various media content categories of media content user account settings and other data content from a media application provider. For example the backend API component may receive media content media content recommendations a landing page associated with a user and or user account categories of media content e.g. new releases recently activated media content a user s media library etc. playlists radio stations and the like. In particular media content may be associated with the specific user and or user account based on which the media application is operating and may include settings associated with the specific user and or user account.

As shown in a media application operating in incognito mode may include a UI media player component and a backend AIP component . The media application may communicate with a media application provider . Because the media application is operating in incognito mode indications of user actions may be discarded and may not be provided to the media application provider . These indications of user actions may be discarded and may not be provided to the media application provider based on various implementations. For example indications of user actions received by the media application may be blocked at such that the indications of user actions are discarded and are not provided to the backend AIP component . As a result indications of user actions may not be provided to the media application provider . Alternatively as another example indications of user actions received by the media application may be blocked at such that indications of user actions are discarded and are not provided by the backend AIP component to the media application provider . In this case the backend AIP component may receive indications of user actions from the UI media player component and the backend AIP component may for example store these indications but may not provide these indications to the media application provider . In some cases the media application provider may not know that the media application is operating in incognito mode.

According to an implementation while operating media application in incognito mode the media application may continue to receive media content from a media application provider as described above with reference to in normal mode operation. For example the application provider may provide media content to the backend API component of the media application . Accordingly the backend API component may provide the media content to the UI media player component . The media content provided by the media application provider may include various media content categories of media content user account settings and other data content from a media application provider. For example the backend API component may receive media content media content recommendations a landing page associated with a user and or user account categories of media content e.g. new releases recently activated media content a user s media library etc. playlists radio stations and the like. In particular media content may be associated with the specific user and or user account based on which the media application is operating and may include settings associated with the specific user and or user account.

A feature of the present disclosure is that from the perspective of a user and or a user account associated with the media application the UI media player component may appear the same whether the media application is operating in normal mode or incognito mode. According to an implementation during operation in incognito mode one or more media content suggestions may be displayed in the media application. For example the media application may continue to receive various media content categories of media content user account settings and other data content from a media application provider. As another example during operation in incognito mode one or more media content suggestions may be displayed in the media application. According to an implementation one or more media content categories associated with a user account may be received from the media application provider and the one or more media content categories may be displayed during operation in the second mode i.e. incognito mode. For example while operating in incognito mode media content may continue to be received from the media application provider as it was received from the media application provider while operating the media application in normal mode. Media content which may be received from the media application provider may include media content categories such as media content recommendations a landing page associated with a user and or user account categories of media content e.g. new releases recently activated media content a user s media library etc. playlists radio stations and the like. As a result the techniques described herein allow a user of a media application to continue to receive a personalized and tailored media experience even when operating in incognito mode. For example this may allow a user to continue to receive and access media content associated with the user and or user account such as a media library associated with the user playlists associated with the user preferred radio stations associated with the user a landing page associated with the user media content recently activated by the user media content recently purchased by the user and any other content and or settings associated with the user or user account while operating the media application in incognito mode.

Techniques disclosed herein may be implemented according to various system arrangements. shows an example information flow according to an implementation of the disclosed subject matter. As shown a media application may operate in a first mode such as a normal mode at . Operation of the media application in normal mode may include receiving media content associated with a user account from a media application provider at . The media application may receive a first indication of a first user action at and the media application may perform the first user action. The media application may provide the first indication of the first user action to the media application provider at . The media application may receive an instruction to operate in a second mode such as an incognito mode at . While operating in incognito mode the media application may receive a second indication of a second user action at and the media application may receive media content associated with the second user action and or the user account at . For example the second user action may be a request to play the song Pink Pillow in which case the media application provider may provide the song Pink Pillow to the media application. In addition the media application provider may provide media content associated with the user account to the media application such as media content recommendations a landing page associated with a user and or user account categories of media content e.g. new releases recently activated media content a user s media library etc. playlists radio stations and the like. Following receipt of media content from the media application provider the media application may perform the second user action at . For example the media application may play the song Pink Pillow. Because the media application is operating in incognito mode the second indication of a second user action received at may be discarded by the media application at .

In an implementation the communication between a media application and media application provider may be across one or more bridges between the interfaces. For example the communications between the media application and the media application provider may be managed or assisted by a third device such as a coordinating device a local coordinator a remote server etc. In such cases the third device may for example receive media content from the media application provider and provide the media content to the media application. The third device may also receive indications of user actions from the media application and provide the indications to the media application provider. The third device may also receive an indication that a media application is operating in incognito mode in which case the third coordinating device may receive an indication of a user action and may discard the indication without providing it to the media application provider. Furthermore more than one intermediate device may be implemented to facilitate communication between the devices one or more media applications and a media application provider.

As described herein implementations of the disclosed subject matter provide techniques for operating a media application in an incognito mode. The present disclosure provides a feature in a media application that allows a user to take action in the media application such as activating e.g. play listen view etc. media content while in an incognito mode without providing an indication of his actions to a media application provider. In particular with a simple switch to incognito mode a user can prevent receiving embarrassing inaccurate or undesirable media content recommendations from a media application provider. Additionally a user may prevent embarrassing inaccurate or undesirable sharing of his media content activation history to his social network. Even while operating in incognito mode the user may still receive the same media content associated with his user account as he would receive while operating in a normal mode. As a result the user may still enjoy a personalized media experience in a media application but without providing indications of his actions in the media application to a media application provider while in incognito mode.

Embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in and used with a variety of component and network architectures. is an example computer system suitable for implementing embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter. The computer includes a bus which interconnects major components of the computer such as one or more processors memory such as RAM ROM flash RAM or the like an input output controller and fixed storage such as a hard drive flash storage SAN device or the like. It will be understood that other components may or may not be included such as a user display such as a display screen via a display adapter user input interfaces such as controllers and associated user input devices such as a keyboard mouse touchscreen or the like and other components known in the art to use in or in conjunction with general purpose computing systems.

The bus allows data communication between the central processor and the memory . The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with the computer are generally stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as the fixed storage and or the memory an optical drive external storage mechanism or the like.

Each component shown may be integral with the computer or may be separate and accessed through other interfaces. Other interfaces such as a network interface may provide a connection to remote systems and devices via a telephone link wired or wireless local or wide area network connection proprietary network connections or the like. For example the network interface may allow the computer to communicate with other computers via one or more local wide area or other networks as shown in .

Many other devices or components not shown may be connected in a similar manner such as document scanners digital cameras auxiliary supplemental or backup systems or the like. Conversely all of the components shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The components can be interconnected in different ways from that shown. The operation of a computer such as that shown in is readily known in the art and is not discussed in detail in this application. Code to implement the present disclosure can be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of the memory fixed storage remote storage locations or any other storage mechanism known in the art.

More generally various embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter may include or be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. Embodiments also may be embodied in the form of a computer program product having computer program code containing instructions embodied in non transitory and or tangible media such as CD ROMs DVDs hard drives USB universal serial bus drives flash drives or any other non transitory machine readable storage medium such that when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. Embodiments also may be embodied in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a non transitory storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer. When the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits. In some configurations a set of computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium may be implemented by a general purpose processor which may transform the general purpose processor or a device containing the general purpose processor into a special purpose device configured to implement or carry out the instructions. Embodiments may be implemented using hardware that may include a processor such as a general purpose microprocessor and or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC that embodies all or part of the techniques according to embodiments of the disclosed subject matter in hardware and or firmware. The processor may be coupled to memory such as RAM ROM flash memory a hard disk or any other device capable of storing electronic information as previously described. The memory or other storage medium may store instructions adapted to be executed by the processor to perform the techniques according to embodiments of the disclosed subject matter.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit embodiments of the disclosed subject matter to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of embodiments of the disclosed subject matter and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to utilize those embodiments as well as various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

