---

title: Method for visualizing an IVR system
abstract: The invention is a method of creating a dialstring for use with mobile smartphones and other computer-enabled telephones. A software app designed to implement the method recognizes input from the user (such as the initial digits of a phone number) that identifies the organization to be called, and accesses a stored representation of the IVR phone tree for that organization. The app then presents a graphical representation of all or part of the phone tree on the display of the telephone. The user can then respond to the graphical representation by providing selective inputs that cause the app to synthesize all or part of the dialstring needed to navigate the phone tree to the desired destination. Once a dialing option has been synthesized to the user's satisfaction, the user may provide additional input that the system interprets as an instruction to open a phone call and dial the synthesized number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253321&OS=09253321&RS=09253321
owner: 
number: 09253321
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140127
---
This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 840 190 filed on Jun. 27 2013 which is also incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to making phone calls and more specifically provides a method for pre programming a dialing sequence or dialstring to allow more rapid connection to the desired destination at an organization or company employing an interactive voice response IVR system. The method typically implemented in software as a application or app on a smartphone with a touchscreen display recognizes the intention of the user to make a call to an organization from user inputs and responds by presenting a graphical representation of all or part of the destination IVR phone tree on the display of the user s device. The user can then select the desired destination in the IVR tree through interaction with the display. Once selected the method then creates a dialing sequence that is then dialed upon appropriate user input. In some embodiments the dialing sequence is created after the user selects a single input from the display. In some embodiments the dialing sequence is built up through multiple interactions with the system through the display.

Since the 1960s automated interactive voice response IVR systems have been developed and are now widely employed by organizations and companies to direct calls coming in to the organization. The typical IVR system plays a pre programmed greeting that presents options to the user such as Welcome to Conglomorate Industries. Press or say 1 for customer service 2 for technical support . . . etc. and then waits for a response from the user. User input can be provided from entering a number on the phone which triggers the generation of a touch tone dual tone multi frequency DTMF signaling signal or by speaking the response. The IVR system then attempts to recognize the input and switch the call to the designated destination.

Often the destination will again have a pre programmed IVR response such as Welcome to Conglomorate customer service. Press or say 1 for computer products 2 for telephone products . . . etc. and the user again must enter or say an option. This third destination may yet again have a pre recorded IVR response which may even lead to a fourth destination with a pre programmed IVR response.

When a caller wishes to interact with the USCIS the caller would typically dial 1 800 375 5283 wait for the reply then press 1 or 2 then wait for a reply then press the next response etc.

When an IVR system works well it can direct the caller quickly to the destination desired while saving costs for companies and organizations by allowing them to employ fewer human operators while still handling large call volumes. IVR systems are now a business service sector with revenues of almost 2B annually and several companies provide software and services to run and manage IVR systems including Avaya of Santa Clara Calif. Cicso Systems of San Jose Calif. Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories of Daly City Calif. Nuance Communications of Burlington Mass. Verint of Melville N.Y. and Voxeo products offered by Aspect Software Group of Chelmsford Mass.

Unfortunately complex IVR systems can often lead to time wasted by the user trying to navigate the tree to find the answer to a simple question. This often leads to frustration on the part of the user. Users may have inadvertently pressed the wrong key on the phone keypad finding themselves at a destination they did not want or even recognize with no option to go back in the tree to try again. Or the IVR system may have misunderstand a voice response due to a noisy phone connection a user s unexpected accent or use of unusual phrasing such as saying Sure or OK instead of Yes or simply poor voice recognition algorithms. In such a situation the IVR system has again directed the user to a destination that is unknown or unwanted. The IVR system may also be giving instructions in a language that is not well understood by the caller the caller may wish to contact a company or agency about a topic that they are able to competently discuss but must listen to often long descriptions of topics they may not understood and therefore find additionally confusing.

Some IVR systems have grown more sophisticated becoming more capable of recognizing the wide variation possible in user input. However problems remain deterring users who have had bad experiences with an organization s IVR system. Online directories such as provided by Gethuman.com or Whatis.com have appeared to help users bypass IVR systems altogether.

Although some companies may hide behind confusing IVR phone trees to avoid dealing with dissatisfied customers many organizations deploying IVR systems such as government agencies legitimately want to provide service to as many callers as possible but have budget limitations on the number of employees or call centers they can pay to answer phones. There is therefore a need for a system that can help guide users through the phone trees of an IVR system quickly and efficiently.

The invention presented here is a system for use with telephones having a visual display such as mobile smartphones. The system recognizes an input from the user such as the input of the beginning of a phone number that identifies the organization to be called and accesses a stored representation of the phone tree for that organization. This representation of the phone tree may be stored locally or remotely in an online server. The system then presents a graphical representation of all or part of the phone tree on the display of the telephone. The user can then respond to the graphical representation by providing selective input that triggers the system to synthesize all or part of the dialing sequence needed to navigate the phone tree to the desired destination. Once a dialing option has been completely synthesized to the user s satisfaction the user may provide additional input that the system then interprets as an instruction to open a phone call and dial the synthesized number.

What follow are detailed descriptions of embodiments of the invention including the best mode contemplated by the inventors at this time. It will be recognized that these embodiments are generally implemented as software code written in languages such as C Objective C C Java or C and executed on smartphones using operating systems such as iOS and its variations for Apple products various versions of the Android operating system distributed by Google Inc. or Windows Phone OS distributed by Microsoft Corp. Other smartphone operating systems such as Symbian Blackberry OS QNX Blackberry10 etc. will be known to those skilled in the art.

Although embodiments of this invention may be implemented on any electronic data processing system with an interface to a telephone network typical embodiments will be implemented on a smartphone . A block diagram of the components of a typical smartphone upon which the invention may be implemented is illustrated in . Such a smartphone will typically include a processor such as a microprocessor or other central processing unit CPU such as a system on chip SoC manufactured according to the ARM processor architecture designed by ARM Holdings plc of Cambridge UK or the Snapdragon S4 architecture from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. The processor may be single core or have multiple cores and may be paired with additional graphics processing units GPUs such as a Mali GPU design from ARM Holdings plc Adreno chips from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. or Tegra chips provided by Nvidia Inc. of Santa Clara Calif.

The processor will coordinate electronic signals to and from a built in transceiver which transmits and receives radio frequency RF signals to and from remote transceivers via one or more antennas . The transceiver will typically comprise both one or more RF transmitters and one or more RF receivers as well as a modulator demodulator or modem that converts analog RF signals into digital signals for use within the phone as well as converting internal digital signals into RF broadcast signals. The RF signals transmitted between the smartphone and a remote transceiver may also comprise both traffic and control signals e.g. paging signals messages for incoming calls which are used to establish and maintain communication with another party or destination.

Within the smartphone the processor can coordinate electronic signals from a number of sources which will typically include internal memory often comprising transient random access memory e.g. dynamic random access memory or DRAM and may also include various internal data storage devices which are typically may be read write media or may be non transient computer readable media and which may comprise flash memory devices removable subscriber identity module SIM cards microSIM cards nanoSIM cards and the like.

The storage devices may include a general purpose storage that is used to store both program instructions for the processor such as the smartphone operating system OS as well as the program instructions for one or more program products or applications apps that may be executed using the processor . Aside from these programs data such as audio data video data configuration data and or other data or databases that may be accessed and or used by the apps and processor may be stored as well. The storage devices may include a nonvolatile read write memory a read only memory ROM and or volatile read write memory. Various application programming interfaces APIs may be used to specify how various software components should interact with each other and with the data stored in the storage devices .

In some embodiments of the invention the storage devices may have stored therein an electronic database representing various IVR phone trees such as the phone tree illustrated in . In some embodiments of the invention the storage devices may have stored therein an electronic representation of a Dialer Field which stores data related to a dialstring the user synthesizes for the purpose of making a phone call. In some embodiments of the invention the storage devices may have stored therein an electronic database representing an address book with contact information defined by name and address such as telephone numbers email addresses and so on. The name used for items in the contact book need not be real names of persons but may be any combination of identifying characters.

Furthermore the storage devices may include temporary data storage for a database of unsaved numbers. This temporary data storage may be used for storing call lists such as telephone numbers of received or missed calls from remote parties. The storage devices may be considered temporary in the sense that unsaved numbers are automatically deleted after a predetermined time period counted in days weeks or months. Alternatively the temporary data storage may hold only a limited number of positions working on a first in first out basis. In this case the storage devices is temporary in the sense that an unsaved number is pushed step by step through the list by subsequently received calls until it is pushed out of the list.

The processor will also coordinate electronic signals from a number of input devices such as one or more microphones various input buttons e.g. for controlling sound volume a home button one or more cameras or other inputs such as proximity sensors ambient light sensors and the like. The processor may also coordinate electronic signals from built in devices such as an accelerometer magnetometer GPS sensor or gyroscopic sensor and the like.

The processor will also coordinate electronic signals to a number of output devices such as one or more speakers or various other output devices . A variety of other input and outputs can be coordinated through a docking connector audio jacks or other output connections.

In a typical smartphone the processor will also coordinate electronic signals to and from a touchscreen . The touchscreen is typically a flat device comprising both a display having an array of either illuminated liquid crystal elements or light emitting diodes LEDs to display information and an array of built in touch sensors that may sense electrical conductivity of a finger or sense pressure on the device through changes in electrical capacitance. When the software operating on the smartphone displays various images fields and graphics on different portion of the display various corresponding inputs from the sensors provided by the user can be generated by touching the corresponding portions of the display. The app and operating system software interpret the pressure and or temperature and or conductivity at different points of the screen differently which allows for example the virtual pressing of a button when the user touches the image of a button on a screen or the use of a pinching motion by two fingers to virtually zoom in or the opposite motion to zoom out a displayed image.

Software code written for smartphones is often packaged as a dedicated application or app . The smartphone operating system will allow the display of a graphical icon stored typically as a 57 57 pixel PNG file on the touchscreen display and when the position on the screen where the icon is displayed is touched or depending on the smartphone and the operating system pressed and held under pressure for a predetermined time the signal generated is interpreted as an instruction to launch the software program associated with the icon. Various apps may additionally provide a virtual button on the display labeled close that the user can press and hold to stop the execution of the app and return to the smartphone s home screen.

The smartphone operating system generally provides the code for instructions that among other things interpret the signal strength and duration of a touch on the screen into instructions for executing various portions of stored code. The instruction code for apps must generally conform to the standards for the operating system under which they were written. One standard for the iPhone produced by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. is the iOS App Programming Guide Apple Inc. Oct. 23 2013 . Others will be available for other smartphone operating systems such as Android Microsoft Windows OS etc. and will be known to those skilled in the art.

Typical embodiments of the method disclosed with this application can be implemented by means of software code designed to run on a smartphone . The smartphone may execute instructions encoded in the software that use the various built in functions available to smartphones such as dialing a phone number or accessing data stored in the Internet through a Wi Fi or some other data connection such as those typically provided by the smartphone s data carrier. The software code comprising the instructions for executing the method of the invention may typically be stored on local non transient memory storage within the smartphone such as a flash memory storage device. When descriptions of the method herein are provided such as the user presses a button or the user presses and holds the key they are to be typically understood as the pressing of virtual buttons as displayed on the smartphone touchscreen as managed through the non transient stored code of the app and the operating system and do not represent real physical buttons .

The smartphone may comprise an outer casing one or more cameras one or more microphones A and B a speaker various physical buttons for controls such as audio volume adjustment a home button for controlling the functions of the phone turning the phone on or off answering the phone reverting to the home screen etc. one or more cameras and a touchscreen display . A docking connection may also be provided to allow external inputs and outputs as previously described to be connected.

For most smartphone operating systems there is typically a portion of the touchscreen display reserved for displaying items dictated by the phone operating system no matter which app is running and this portion is used to display items such as the time of day phone signal strength remaining battery life etc. Other portions of the touchscreen display can be designated to display various icons each representing a stored software program which can be executed by the phone. The graphical file for the icon typically a file in a portable network graphics format also known as a .PNG file will typically be governed by the smartphone operating system and will be stored on the storage devices such as flash memory built into the smartphone . Certain portions of the display may be designated to display specific commonly used icons while other portions may be more generally used.

In some embodiments of the invention the software or app implementing the methods of the invention will also have an icon . The execution of this software code can be initiated by the user touching the smartphone touchscreen at the position the icon is displayed effectively pressing the button for the app to launch the program it represents.

For the methods of the invention there are several embodiments that may be designed depending on the structure and detail present in the phone tree. For a phone tree such as the USCIS phone tree of Table I and the IVR options can be quite detailed and do not lend themselves to representation as simple single buttons on a phone display. Instead an embodiment of the method illustrated in may be used to provide visual navigation through the phone tree.

Table I presented in 9 parts presents an example for a phone tree for a government agency in this case the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service USCIS . This phone tree has several tiers of responses available to the user in both English and Spanish. presents these same tiers of options for the USCIS Phone tree of Table I in a graphical illustration.

In the Top Tier 001 the direct dial phone number is represented. This usually comprises a country code in the case of the US the single digit 1 followed by a 3 digit Area Code in this case the toll free indicator 800 a 3 digit prefix in this case 375 and a 4 digit number in this case 5283 .

In the 1Tier 011 the first set of options presented to the caller is presented. In the case of the USCIS The 1Tier choices for the user allow the selection of language with English or Spanish as options.

In the 2Tier 021 the further options provided when one of the 1Tier options is selected are listed. In this case seven options are provided 0 1 2 3 4 6 and 9. The same numerical options are provided for English and Spanish. This Tier is the one generally referred to in this phone tree as the Main Menu .

In the 3Tier 031 the further options provided when one of the 2Tier options is selected are listed. The number of choices varies depending on the 2Tier selection made. If 0 is selected as the 2Tier option the only 3Tier options are 1 and 9. If 1 is selected as the 2Tier option the 3rd Tier options are 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 9. Note that a subset 037 of the 3Tier options will be uniform options no matter what 2Tier option has been selected 7 will cause the immediate 3Tier message to be repeated and 9 returns to the Main Menu in this case to the 2Tier 021 .

In the 4Tier 041 the further options provided when one of the 3Tier options is selected are listed. The number of choices varies depending on the 3Tier selection made. If 5 is selected as the 3Tier option after selecting 1 as the 2Tier option the only 4Tier options are 1 7 8 and 9. If 2 is selected as the 3Tier option after selecting 2 as the 2nd Tier option the 4Tier options are 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and 9.

For a phone tree with additional tiers of information the subsequent selections would proceed in the same way with additional selections possible for each entry at the previous tier. For the USCIS phone tree there are no additional options for 4Tier 041 selections every choice at 4Tier 041 either plays a pre recorded information message to address a given question or makes a connection with a live person in the identified department.

As the initial step of the method of the invention typically triggered by the pressing of the smartphone icon for the app the software begins execution noted as the Start step . This typically involves loading the program steps into active memory and their execution by the processor built into the smartphone .

The next step will typically be a display on the touchscreen of a confirmation to the user that indicates that the app has launched often simply the display of a logo or a larger version of the icon . This step may optionally provide a button for selecting an option that invokes a list of previously dialed or constructed calls as well as an option to proceed with the keypad for the IVR dialer.

If the user elects to proceed to the dialer in the next step an active input screen is displayed with a keypad and a display field for the user to begin making entries. An example of such a display screen is illustrated in . In this illustration a portion of the touchscreen display represents a keypad consisting of twelve buttons which correspond to a typical touchtone phone entry device comprising the digits 0 through 9 and the Star and Pound keys. The upper part of the touchscreen display comprises a portion of the display designated to display the input from the user and may additionally comprise a cursor that may turn off and on or blink as a prompt to indicate readiness for input.

Below the keypad the touchscreen display may additionally comprise an alphanumeric button to switch to optional alphanumeric input mode which would in turn typically have a corresponding numeric indicator button to switch back to numeric input a Back button to undo the user s immediate input and an OK button that may load the input into the Dialer Field once the user is done.

Returning to The next step comprises accepting data input from the user. The screen displayed in this mode is illustrated in . The input will typically be the entry of digits such as 8 . . . 0 . . . 0 . . . 3 . . . 7 . . . 5 . . . selected by pressing some of the buttons with a finger . The input portion of the touchscreen display may show the data previously entered with the cursor underscoring the character being currently entered. Alternatively if the Text Entry button has been pressed the entry characters may be a text entry such as USCIS which may be entered using a virtual keyboard or other text entry method that are often built into the operating system of the smartphone and may be well known to those skilled in the art.

Returning to the next step compares the user input to the phone tree data stored in the IVR database available to the app. This IVR database will typically comprise a number of phone tree data entries such as the tree illustrated in and Table I as well as metadata about the tree such as the name of the agency or company whose tree is being represented. The IVR database may be written with any prior art database storage techniques such as SQLite SQL CE HanDBase Filemaker Go Filemaker Bento DriodDB Java DB eSQL etc. and can be accessed using standard database query languages such as SQL.

The comparison step may execute automatically with comparisons being made any time data is entered by the user. Alternatively the software may be designed to make a comparison only once the OK button has been pressed or some other user indication of readiness to query the phone tree is entered. The comparison step may make a comparison of entered numeric digits to the digits of the phone tree for example recognizing an entry of 8 0 0 3 7 5 . . . as possibly corresponding to the USCIS phone number 1 800 375 5283 or may recognize a keypad entry of U S C I . . . as corresponding to the USCIS phone number 1 800 375 5283.

If the comparison step does not find a match with an element in the IVR database during a predetermined time period several options are possible. In some embodiments if the input is not matched the software can simply wait until further input is provided until a match is found. However in other embodiments the system may employ a time evaluation step set for a predetermined time for example for 5 seconds after which if there is no match found by the comparison step the next step may be a display of a No Match message optionally implemented as a temporary pop up screen and a return to a blank keypad entry screen as in step and as was illustrated in . If on the other hand the time evaluation step detects additional user input in the predetermined time the system returns to the input step to accept the input and again makes a comparison with the IVR database either automatically or as triggered by the user.

In this embodiment if the comparison step identifies at least one match for the input data with one or more entries in the IVR database the next step is a display of the matching options to the user. It should be noted that for a given entry for example 8 . . . 0 . . . 0 many phone trees may be available and displayed and only further entry of the next digits 3 7 5 . . . will further narrow the options displayed from the IVR database . In some embodiments the user may designate a setting within the software so that identified matching entries are only displayed after a certain number of digits for example 6 or 7 digits have been entered.

An example of a screen display corresponding to this step is illustrated in . In this illustration the six digits 8 0 0 3 7 5 have been entered by the user and are displayed in the upper portion of the touchscreen display with the cursor under the most recently entered digit. In this example it is assumed that the system finds three matching phone trees stored in the IVR database that correspond to these initial 6 digits. These are displayed as distinct fields in the display one for each of the matching IVR database entries. The fields may be simple text and numbers or may also include various images thumbnail files or corporate logos in the display. Each field represents a virtual button that can be pressed to select the corresponding phone tree. In this illustration the matching entries are listed in numeric order by the Top Tier entry the phone number for the phone tree. If there are too many entries for convenient display within the screen a standard scroll bar for the display may also be used to allow the user to scroll down a long list of entries. In some embodiments the matching entries may be listed in alphabetical order according to the metadata associated with the phone tree. The Back button may be used to return to the keypad entry screen to enter more digits if too many matches for convenient selection have been found.

Returning to the next step comprises accepting entry data from the user in the form or pressing the button for one of the phone tree options displayed. The next step checks if the Back button was the input and if so the program returns the display to the input screen represented by the keypad entry step .

However if the result of this selection step is that one of the phone tree options has been selected the next step comprises loading the phone number corresponding to the Top Tier of that phone tree option into the Dialer Field . The dialer field may be a separate memory register designated by the app specifically for this purpose or in some embodiments may be a designated string variable within the program.

After the phone tree has been selected and the data for the phone tree Top Tier loaded into the Dialer Field in the next step the phone screen is changed to now display the contents of the Dialer Field . An example of a screen display corresponding to this step is illustrated in which shows the contents of the Dialer Field in a portion of the touchscreen display in the upper part of the screen and also comprising in this embodiment a pop up screen containing two buttons with one button giving the user the option to Call the number as loaded into the dialer field and the other button marked Tree that allows the user to continue building the number based on the phone tree. Various techniques such as a change in the size shape color font graphic selections etc. may be used to allow the user to recognize that the contents of the portion of the display showing the contents of the Dialer Field is from the IVR database and not the same display as the user input display even though the actual digits may be the same or similar to those displayed in the input screen .

Returning to the next step comprises accepting entry data from the user in the form or pressing one of the two buttons displayed Call or Tree . If the choice is to Call the program passes control to steps represented by D in which initiate the phone and call the number in the dialer field and are illustrated in detail in . If the choice is Tree the program passes control to steps represented by B in which allow the user to continue to build the number in the dialer field and are illustrated in detail in .

Turning now to after the Tree option has been selected as mentioned above program passes control to steps presented here that allow the user to continue to build the number in the Dialer Field . The next step is to display the dialer field along with the 1Tier options for the phone tree.

A typical screen display corresponding to this step is illustrated in . The upper part of the touchscreen display illustrates the contents of the Dialer Field but now are illustrated with a cursor which may optionally be blinking or otherwise indicating that the software is now accepting input from the user. The location of the cursor may be used to illustrate the Tier from which the options are being selected. In some embodiments a more specific designation of the Tier of the Phone Tree may be provided such as a heading such as 1Tier to label the options presented. In this illustration the two 1Tier Options from the USCIS Phone Tree are presented as buttons that may be pressed by the user to select the additional material that will be added to the contents of the Dialer Field .

Returning to the next step comprises accepting entry data from the user in the form or pressing one of the buttons displayed for the 1Tier phone tree options. For the example illustrated in and Table I the USCIS phone tree as well as the illustration in the 1Tier Options 011 are 

After one of these options has been selected the next step generates a first data string corresponding to the digits to be appended to the Dialer Field typically represented by one or more commas depending on the length of pause needed for the IVR system and the digit of the selection. For the example of the USCIS phone tree selecting the option of 1. To Continue in English will append the bit stream 1 to the number in the dialer field.

Once the 1Tier bit stream selection has been appended to the Dialer Field the next step determines if there is an additional tier of options in the selected phone tree. If there are no options for additional tiers available under the selection made for the 1Tier the next step may be an optional display of a message to the user that the Entry is Complete or that All Tiers Filled and the program passes control to steps represented by C in that conclude the interaction with the stored Phone Tree and which are illustrated in detail in .

However if there are additional options for tiers available the next step is to display the present contents of the Dialer Field along with the next Tier options for the phone tree.

A typical smartphone screen display corresponding to this step for the 2Tier options for the USCIS Phone Tree is illustrated in . The upper part of the display again illustrates the contents of the Dialer Field which now have the 1Tier input appended so the cursor is now placed at the location where the 2Tier bit stream will be appended. In some embodiments a more specific designation of the Tier of the Phone Tree may be provided such as a heading such as 2Tier to label the options presented. In this illustration three of the six 2Tier Options from the USCIS Phone Tree are presented as buttons that may be pressed by the user to select the additional material that will be added to the contents of the Dialer Field . A partly filled scroll bar is also illustrated to the right of the options indicating that there are more 2Tier options that may be made visible by using the scroll controls typical for this smartphone operating system.

For the example illustrated in and Table I the USCIS Phone Tree as well as the illustration in the 2Tier Options 021 are 

Returning again to the next step comprises accepting entry data from the user in the form or pressing one of the buttons displayed for the phone tree options or pressing the button representing the Call option or the button representing the Store option. In the next step if either the Call or Store option has been selected the program passes control to steps represented by C in that complete the creation of the number in the Dialer Field and which are illustrated in detail in . However if one of the 2Tier phone tree options has been selected then the next step generates a second data string corresponding to the required digits to be appended to the phone number in the Dialer Field typically represented by one or two commas depending on the length of pause needed for the IVR system and the digit of the selection. For the example of the USCIS phone tree selecting the option 2. For Information about immigration benefits and process such as interviews biometrics requests for evidence background checks or processing times . . . will append the bit stream 2 to the number in the dialer field.

Once the 2Tier option has been selected and appended to the Dialer Field the program proceeds back to the step to determine if there is an additional tier of options in the selected phone tree. If there are no options for additional tiers available under the selection made for the 2Tier the next step may be an optional display of a message to the user that the Entry is Complete or that All Tiers Filled and the program passes control to steps represented by C in that conclude the use of the Phone Tree and which are illustrated in detail in . However if there are additional options for tiers available the next step is to display the dialer field along with the next Tier options for the phone tree.

For the example illustrated in and Table I the USCIS phone tree the 3Tier Options 031 after option 1 for the 1Tier and 2 for the 2Tier have been selected are 

The next step comprises accepting entry data from the user in the form or pressing one of the buttons displayed for the phone tree options or pressing the button representing the Call option or the button representing the Store option. In the next step if either the Call or Store option has been selected the program passes control to steps represented by C in that complete the creation of the number in the Dialer Field and which are illustrated in detail in . However if one of the 3Tier phone tree options has been selected then the next step generates a third data string corresponding to the required digits to be appended to the phone number in the Dialer Field typically represented by one or two commas depending on the length of pause needed for the IVR system and the digit of the selection. For the example of the USCIS phone tree selecting the option of 1. For general filing information will append the bit stream 1 to the number in the dialer field.

Once the 3Tier option has been selected and appended to the Dialer Field the program proceeds back to the step to determine if there is an additional tier of options in the selected phone tree. If there are no options for additional tiers available under the selection made for the 3Tier the next step may be an optional display of a message to the user that the Entry is Complete or that All Tiers Filled and the program passes control to steps represented by C in that conclude the use of the Phone Tree and which are illustrated in detail in . However if there are additional options for tiers available the next step is to display the dialer field along with the next Tier options for the phone tree.

For the example illustrated in and Table I the USCIS phone tree the 4Tier Options 041 after option 1 for the 1Tier 2 for the 2Tier and 1 for the 3Tier have been selected are 

The next step comprises accepting entry data from the user in the form or pressing one of the buttons displayed for the phone tree options or pressing the button representing the Call option or the button representing the Store option. In the next step if either the Call or Store option has been selected the program passes control to steps represented by C in that complete the creation of the number in the Dialer Field and which are illustrated in detail in . However if one of the 4Tier phone tree options has been selected then the next step generates a fourth data string corresponding to the required digits to be appended to the phone number in the Dialer Field typically represented by one or two commas depending on the length of pause needed for the IVR system and the digit of the selection. For the example of the USCIS phone tree selecting the option of 4. Refugees and Asylees will append the bit stream 4 to the number in the dialer field.

Once the 4Tier option has been selected and appended to the Dialer Field the program proceeds back to the step to determine if there is an additional tier of options in the selected phone tree. If there are no options for additional tiers available under the selection made for the 4Tier the next step may be an optional display of a message to the user that the Entry is Complete or that All Tiers Filled and the program passes control to steps represented by C in that conclude the use of the Phone Tree and which are illustrated in detail in . However if there are additional options for tiers available the next step is to display the dialer field along with the next Tier options for the phone tree. For the example of the USCIS phone tree there are at most 4 Tiers so the program will proceed to the concluding options indicated by C and illustrated in .

Turning now to if either all Tiers have had bit streams appended to the Dialer Tree or the Call or Store options have been selected the program passes control to steps presented here. If the Dialer Field has been completed for the USCIS example presented here the number in the Dialer Field will now consist of the dialstring 1 8003755283 1 2 1 4 representing the number to call to provide access for filing information for Refugees and Asylees the next step is to display the assembled number in the Dialer Field . This step or an additional step may also present the Call or Store options as was illustrated in to the user options for the user as buttons .

A typical smartphone screen display corresponding to this step for the USCIS Phone Tree is illustrated in . The upper part of the display again illustrates the contents of the Dialer Field which is now complete with 1 2 3 and 4Tier input appended so there is no cursor displayed. The Call and Store buttons and are also present allowing the user to either invoke the phone operations using the number in the Dialer Field or to store the contents of the Dialer Field for future use.

Returning to the next step comprises again accepting input from the user in the form or pressing one of the buttons displayed.

This now places the software in a similar state to that invoked by pressing the Call or Store buttons in input step of . In next step if the Call option has been selected either as an option during the construction of the Dialer Field or after all Dialer Field options have been exhausted the control of the program branches to the dialing options indicated by D in and illustrated in more detail in .

If the Store option has been selected in the next step the program provides access to a database such as a typical address database provided with smartphones for storing the assembled phone number in the Dialer Field . The next step comprises accepting input from the user typically in the form of identifying information to be recorded as metadata about the phone number such as an organization name and or department. In the next step both the number from the Dialer Field and the entered metadata may be stored in the address database . For the example previously illustrated the address database may store the dialstring 1 8003755283 1 2 1 4 along with identifying information such as USCIS Refugee Info. entered by the user.

Once the data is stored the program proceeds to the next step in which the Dialer Field is displayed and the user has the option to Call the assembled number in the Dialer Field or to Close the app. These options for the user will be presented as buttons . In this example the options are to Call using the number in the Dialer Field or to Close the app.

This step then accepts input from the user in the form or pressing one of the buttons displayed. In the next step if the Call option has been selected the program branches to the dialing options indicated by D in and illustrated in more detail in . If the Close option has been selected in the next step the program returns to the initial dialer screen as was illustrated in or in some embodiments may simply shut down the app returning the phone to the home screen as was illustrated in

Turning now to which represents the steps indicated by the D noted in . Once the Dialer Field has had the number assembled the next step is to take the assembled dialstring from the Dialer Field and pass it to the phone dialer. This will invoke the standard phone dialing commands packaged within the operating system of the smartphone and will make the phone call through the transceiver built within the smartphone. In some embodiments once the call is completed the control of the phone will be returned to the app which has remained operational in the background. The phone call will then display a closing screen which may say Thank you for making your call with Visual IVR and present the user with options to Make another call or to Close the app In other embodiments the app will close once the dialstring has been constructed and transferred to the phone dialer and when the call is done the phone will return to the smartphone s home state.

In the next step the normal dialing interface is displayed with two buttons provided as options Confirm or Cancel . The next step comprises accepting input from the user in the form or pressing one of the buttons displayed.

In the next step the program interprets this input. If the Cancel button was selected the program passes control as indicated by the F noted in and reverts to the Call or Close options indicated the prior step in and since the user choses not to call presumably the user would immediately select the Close option .

However if the Confirm button has been selected in the next step the phone connection is initiated using standard commands in the smartphone operating system API and the number from the Dialer Field is dialed. The number will reach the desired phone tree and the appended suffixes with their suitably attached pauses represented by commas will reach the selected entry in the phone tree with no need to listen repeatedly to complex options or wait to manually enter digits after listening to a message.

With the initiation of the phone call in this step the creation of the dialstring by the app is done. In some embodiments in the final step the app reverts to a standby state in the background while the phone call proceeds and once the end of the call is detected reverts to the initial start screen as shown in . In other embodiments the app remains operating in the background but the smartphone displays the home screen for the smartphone.

In the First Embodiment presented above the user makes selections through displays on the phone in the order that they would be made if the user were listening to the phone tree first a 1Tier selection is made followed by a 2Tier selection followed by a 3Tier selection etc. until the user proceeds to dial or the options are exhausted.

This type of iterative selection is useful if the options are lengthy or complex and do not lend themselves to simple graphical display on a smartphone screen. However not all phone trees have entries that are this complex. Table II in 3 parts presents an example for a phone tree for GEICO Insurance. As before there are several tiers to the phone tree. However most of these entries are considerably shorter than the options in the USCIS phone tree. B and C present these same tiers of options for GEICO Insurance in a graphical illustration.

Referring to Table II and in the Top Tier 002 the direct dial phone number is represented. This usually comprises a country code in the case of the US the single digit 1 followed by a 3 digit Area Code in this case the toll free indicator 800 a 3 digit prefix in this case 841 and a 4 digit number in this case 3000 .

In the 1Tier 012 the first set of options presented to the caller is shown. In the case of the GEICO Phone Tree as listed in Table II there are seven 1Tier options to choose from. Of these options 0 4 5 6 and 7 have no additional Tiers beneath them. Option 0 to repeat the present menu is not illustrated in

In the 2Tier 022 the further options provided once one of the 1Tier options has been selected are shown. As listed in Table II up to nine options are possible 0 1 2 3 4 6 7 and . Note that a subset of the 2Tier options will be uniform options no matter what 2nd Tier option has been selected 0 will cause the immediate 2nd Tier message to be repeated and returns to the previous tier in this case to the 1Tier . These uniform options have not been included in the illustration of .

In the 3Tier 032 the further options provided once one of the 2Tier options has been selected are shown. The number of options varies depending on the 2Tier selection made. If 1 was selected as the 2Tier option there are no additional 3Tier options unique to 1 in the 2Tier selecting option 1 in this case makes a direct connection to Emergency Roadside Service. However if 4 was selected as the 2Tier option the 3Tier options as listed in Table II are 0 1 2 3 4 and . The relationship between options in the Tiers are represented in by vertical lines. Note that as listed in Table II a subset of the 3Tier options will be uniform options no matter what 3Tier option has been selected 0 will cause the immediate 2Tier message to be repeated and returns to the previous tier in this case 2Tier . These uniform options have not been included in the illustration of .

Likewise in the 4Tier 042 the further options provided once one of the 3Tier options has been selected are shown. Only a selection of 4 in the 3Tier leads to additional options in 4Tier and in this case as listed in Table II the 4Tier options are 0 1 2 and . Note that a subset of the 4Tier options will be uniform options no matter what 4Tier option has been selected 0 will cause the immediate 4Tier message to be repeated and returns to the previous tier in this case to the 3Tier . These uniform options have not been included in the illustration of .

The relative simplicity of the entries in this phone tree makes it amenable to representation as a graphical object similar to the representation in B and C. In the GEICO Top Tier is represented by a single long rectangle 002 stretching across the entire graphical representation. Underneath this single Top Tier representation 002 is a set of seven smaller rectangles 012 representing the 1Tier options. Underneath the 1Tier options 012 are a set of rectangles 022 representing the 2Tier options with a subset of rectangles of the set 022 beneath each corresponding 1Tier option. Underneath the 2Tier options 022 are a set of squares 032 representing the 3Tier options with a subset of rectangles of the set 032 beneath each corresponding 2Tier option. Underneath the 3Tier options 032 are a set of dots 042 representing the 4Tier options with a subset of dots of the set 042 beneath each corresponding 3Tier option.

In this representation details for the 1Tier options are shown but only numbers for the 2Tier options are displayed and detail for the 3and 4Tiers cannot be seen at all. However using standard prior art programming interfaces such as the standard user interface commands for zoom e.g. pinch to zoom scroll bars zoom controls for the graphic display the detail displayed in a graphical display is allowed to scale and become visible or hidden as the image is magnified or demagnified.

Again using built in zoom functions for the graphic information this detail can be made visible. illustrates a zoomed version of the options for the 2Tier selection of 4 022 1 4 in which the 3Tieroptions 032 1 4 are now large enough to be legible. In this case the entries for the 4Tier options 042 1 4 4 are also displayed since there are only two that need to be displayed at the same time. If more 4Tier options existed further detail could be viewed by additional graphical zooming.

Many of the steps that will be executed in an embodiment of the invention using a graphical phone tree will be similar or the same as the steps executed for the detailed phone tree as already described. As in the previous embodiment illustrated in the software begins execution with the initial step by the user pressing the smartphone icon for the app noted as the Start step . This typically involves loading the program steps into active memory and their execution by the microprocessor built into the smartphone.

The initial steps of this embodiment will follow the steps already presented in in which the user inputs digits or characters until they are recognized as corresponding to a phone tree whose data has been stored in the IVR database . However in this embodiment instead of the program steps passing control to the steps represented in by B and further illustrated in at this same step marked B in the program passes control to code that executes the steps indicated by the character B which are illustrated in .

Turning now to in the next step of this embodiment the display will show the Dialer Field along with the graphic representation of the Phone Tree. The graphic display will be configured as a set of dynamically sized objects that can act as buttons such that when an image of a button on the display is larger than a predetermined amount it becomes active as an input designator. Techniques for creating a zoomed display of a graphic representation of a dataset and user interactions with the display using for example a two finger zoom technique are common in mapping and other smartphone apps and will be known to those skilled in the art.

The next step is to accept user input moving within and zooming the graphic on the display which the user will do to explore the phone tree until the desired option is identified and made large enough to become an active button . This designation of active or inactive may be made by any number of common techniques such as the a change of color or contrast for the font in the button text e.g. having text for an inactive button be represented as grey while text for an active button be designated as black or by having a graphic designator such as an outline or a change in color intensity appear as the button becomes active.

Because this graphic display is intended to be zoomed to allow the user to identify their selection various options to facilitate zooming may also be added to the display. A graphic to allow control of zooming functions such as the box pair marked with and is a common interface for a zoom command. A vertical scroll bar and a horizontal scroll bar are also shown as possible interface graphics to allow navigation within the graphical object. Zoom control and navigation may also be achieved using various two finger interactions such as a touchscreen pinch zoom moving two touched points closer or farther apart on the touchscreen to zoom in or out or by various hold and move techniques for interacting with the screen for navigation.

Also displayed are Call and Store buttons and analogous to those described in the previous embodiment.

Returning to once the user has identified the desired selection in the phone tree in the next step the user presses the button generating an input signals that is interpreted by the program. The interpretation will typically follow a sequence of decision steps examining the input and analyzing the nature of the data stream. Such a decision tree may follow the steps described below.

In the first decision step the program determines if the button pressed is in the 1tier of the phone tree. If the answer is YES in the next step the phone tree appends a string of bits corresponding to the 1tier digits as illustrated for the GEICO tree 1Tier selection is 1 corresponds to Regarding a Claim and the appended bits will typically represent a comma and a 1 1 . For some phone trees appending two commas 1 or more may be needed to accommodate predictable delays in the phone tree response time. Once the string of bits has been appended to the dialer field the software can proceed to the steps indicated by C in and that correspond to the steps already illustrated in of the previous embodiment.

In the second decision step the program determines if the button pressed is in the 2tier of the phone tree. If the answer is YES in the next step the phone tree appends a string of bits corresponding to the 2tier digits as illustrated for the GEICO tree 1Tier selection 1 corresponds to Regarding a Claim and 2Tier selection 4 corresponds to Automobile Motorcycle or RV and the appended bits will typically represent a comma and a 1 followed by a comma and a 4 1 4 . For some phone trees appending two commas 1 4 or more may be needed to accommodate predictable delays in the phone tree response time. Once the string of bits has been appended to the dialer field the software can proceed to the steps indicated by C in and that correspond to the steps already illustrated in of the previous embodiment.

An example of a selection made at the 2Tier is illustrated in . The Phone Tree in this example the GEICO Phone Tree of Table II and B and C is illustrated and the user s finger is pressed against a selected button in this case a 2Tier selection . The number in the display corresponding to the Dialer Field has been updated with the bit stream 1 4 to reflect the selection.

Returning to in the third decision step the program determines if the button pressed is in the 3tier of the phone tree. If the answer is YES in the next step the phone tree appends a string of bits corresponding to the 3rd tier digits as illustrated for the GEICO tree 1Tier selection 1 corresponds to Regarding a Claim 2Tier selection 4 corresponds to Automobile Motorcycle or RV and 3Tier selection 4 corresponds to Claim has been Reported and the appended bits will typically represent a comma and a 1 followed by a comma and a 4 followed by another comma and a 4 1 4 4 . For some phone trees appending two commas 1 4 4 or more may be needed to accommodate predictable delays in the phone tree response time. Once the string of bits has been appended to the dialer field the software can proceed to the steps indicated by C in and that correspond to the steps already illustrated in of the previous embodiment.

In the fourth decision step the program determines if the button pressed is in the 4Tier of the phone tree. If the answer is YES in the next step the phone tree appends a string of bits corresponding to the 4Tier digits as illustrated for the GEICO tree 1Tier selection 1 corresponds to Regarding a Claim 2Tier selection 4 corresponds to Automobile Motorcycle or RV 3Tier selection 4 corresponds to Claim has been Reported and 4Tier selection 1 corresponds to Party s Extension Known and the appended bits will typically represent a comma and a 1 followed by a comma and a 4 followed by another comma and a 4 followed by another comma and a 1 1 4 4 1 . For some phone trees appending two commas 1 4 4 1 or more may be needed to accommodate predictable delays in the phone tree response time. Once the string of bits has been appended to the dialer field the software can proceed to the steps indicated by C in and that correspond to the steps already illustrated in of the previous embodiment.

In the fifth decision step the program determines if the button pressed is the Call button or the Store button . If the answer is YES in the next step the options represented by C as illustrated in and then are executed and the software proceeds to make a call using the steps as described in the previous embodiment.

In this example the five options representing the 4 tiers as well as an option to Call or Store are the only input options presented to the user. If none of the options are selected the software will wait until one of the options is selected. In some variants of this embodiment if no input is received within a certain predetermined time period a message may be displayed optionally along with a sound cue asking the user to make a selection. In some variants of this embodiment if no selection is made even after prompting the program may cancel or shut down or revert to the initial input state represented by startup step of .

Other variations may be known or derived by those skilled in the art. For example after a 1Tier button is pressed the program may be designed to display a portion of the graphical phone tree with only the 2or 3Tier sub options under the selected 1Tier option displayed as active. The user may then select one of these options as appropriate. In some cases such as in the GEICO phone tree under 1Tier option 2 followed by 2Tier option 4 the phone tree requires a zip code to be entered so the program may be designed to display an additional input field to allow the input of a string of digits or letters. In some cases the program may be designed to display an Additional Input message with Yes or No options that allow additional selections to be made.

Two embodiments for the creation of a dialstring have been disclosed in this application one with step by step navigation through complex options for a phone tree the other with navigation by means of a graphical interface. Other embodiments and implementations of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

One option that may be particularly useful is that of using the visual IVR interface as a replacement for a translation service by providing the guidance and direction for a Phone Tree in one language with menu choices or descriptions in the graphical representations presented in a different language. This can be especially practical for users who struggle to hear or understand the spoken options presented the IVR system but may be able to carry on an appropriate conversation once they have found the right option.

As an example although the phone tree itself is the same a graphical representation in another language may allow a speaker of a foreign language to select options more readily. This is illustrated in in which the options of the GEICO Phone Tree as were shown in are shown but with the text presented in Chinese and with reference characters modified by appending C when compared with the reference characters of . Although the ensuing call may still need to take place in English the ability to navigate to the correct option may be more comfortable for a Chinese native speaker with such a display.

In some embodiments this variation may be achieved through adaptation of various settings for language selection that may be built in to the structure of the app. Such setting commands are generally part of an API for a particular smartphone operating system and will be known to those skilled in the art. The foreign language that may be used can be any language used by a large enough population that may need access to a particular phone tree and may be especially useful if the language uses different characters than the Roman letters of English. For a phone tree in English the foreign language representation may be in Chinese Japanese Korean Thai Vietnamese Bahasa Indonesian Hindi Bengali Telugu Tamil Urdu Pashto Farsi Arabic Hebrew Ethiopian Afrikaans Russian Ukrainian Greek Polish Czech German Danish Swedish French Italian Spanish Welsh or Gaelic among others.

Other embodiments of the invention may combine various elements of the two embodiments presented in other ways. For example although the first embodiment shows building a Dialer Field by appending strings one at a time as the user goes through the phone tree menus while the second embodiment shows the appending a single string representing an ensemble of selections there is an alternative embodiment in which the user goes through the phone tree options one at a time but the final dialstring is created at the end of the process appending a single string that represents the ensemble of choices.

Also although the embodiments presented have illustrated the Dialer Field as if it were a separate register in a storage device within the smartphone as a practical matter the Dialer Field may in fact simply be the value for a string variable within the program and the instructions for its assembly comprise lines of code in the software that revise or update the value of the string.

Likewise the representation of the values to be added to the Dialer Field may simply exist as predetermined entries in the relational database that represents the IVR phone tree. The construction of a Dialer Field in this embodiment is therefore the assembly of a particular sequence of SQL commands that access the database as needed to assemble the selected options. Execution of the final SQL command assembles the dialstring based on the selections by the user and the database entries in the relational database representing the IVR

Although the embodiments presented in this application illustrate the invention by the creation of a dialstring using digits and commas representing pauses it will be known to those skilled in the art that many characters can be used to represent various actions in a dialstring. Dialstring characters may include 

Furthermore although the embodiments illustrated in detail in this application used phone trees in which the entries are generally single digits some phone trees may require the user to enter several characters such as a zip code phone number social security number frequent flyer number PIN etc. In this case the embodiments of the invention would operate essentially as already presented except that the code implementing the method would be designed to accept the input of multiple digits or characters and then appending the multi digit input to the dialstring instead of appending only a single digit.

It should also be noted that the embodiments here may be combined with an additional search function so that the user could simply input a search string such as Kaplan lawsuit for the USCIS phone tree and have the related options e.g. 1 3 1 appear using a suitable user interface without requiring that the user go through the phone tree step by step.

In the embodiments presented so far and as illustrated for example in both the software code for the app and the database representing the IVR phone trees are present on internal storage within the smartphone . However smartphones are often engineered with multiple antennas for cellular phone connection and for local wi fi Internet connections. It may therefore be practical to store the database representing the IVR phone trees on an external storage system at a remote location or in the cloud . Cloud data storage services are offered by companies such as Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. and Amazon Web Services of Seattle Wash. By remote it should be understood that the data storage site is simply at a physical location other than within the smartphone and need not be far from a center of population .

An embodiment of the invention using remote data storage is illustrated in . The smartphone with one or more antennas can connect wirelessly to local cellular phone transceivers comprising antennas or through various well known wi fi protocols such as Bluetooth to local transceivers comprising antennas . These wireless connections in turn are linked to a remote data storage facility either through a conventional telephone system or through the Internet . Note Although the antennas are shown in as an external attachment to the smartphone in practice the antennas for most smartphones are built into the body of the phone.

Within the remote data storage facility storage devices such as disk drives flash memory and the like store a database that represents one or more IVR phone trees. The remote storage devices may also store backup copies of the app code a copy of one or more dialer fields either dynamically accessed during use or more often as a reference of previously called numbers a backup copy of an address book and other items that may be of use to the user either for reference or as backup files for the data stored on the smartphone.

Within the remote facility will also be one or more data processing systems such as routers or computers that serve to manage the data from the stored locations within the facility and coordinate their transmission. Transmission may occur through various telephone connections which will send data and receive instructions and requests for data through a telephone network and cellular transceivers which comprise one or more antennas providing connections to the smartphone by means of cellular phone signals. The data processing systems may also provide a connection to the Internet which allows the user interact through a local wi fi connection to a local transceiver comprising wi fi antennas allowing instructions and requests for data from the facility to be sent and data received through the Internet.

Depending on the reliability of the user s connection embodiments of the invention may be configured to store everything locally on the smartphone share databases such as the IVR database between portions on the smartphone and portions in the remote facility or may store all IVR phone trees in the database in the remote facility accessing the data as needed.

Although the embodiments described in the application describe embodiments of the invention as implemented on a smartphone with a touchscreen display it will be known to those skilled in the art that not all mobile phones or even all smartphones have a touchscreen display. In fact many cellular phone products such as those traditionally produced by Blackberry Ltd formerly known as Research In Motion Ltd of Waterloo ON Canada comprise a display screen and a separate keypad for entry of characters. Most of the original cellular phones prior to the introduction of the iPhone by Apple Inc. in fact are constructed with distinct keypads and displays.

Embodiments of the invention in which the input and display are not combined in a touchscreen but are separate elements with input achieved by pressing dedicated physical buttons in the keypad may still function as well as the embodiments described here. The methods as presented are therefore still applicable but each virtual pressing of a button in the disclosed methods will be replaced by the pressing of real buttons on the keypad with the software code embodiment of the invention engineered to recognize the pressing of suitable keys or key combinations as indicative of the selection of an item shown in the display.

It will also be recognized by those skilled in the art that although this has been described as being implemented by smartphone any communication device comprising a display and a means for selecting items shown in the display may be used for both constructing dialstrings and if a suitable telephone connection is also available using the dialstring to make a phone call.

Although the embodiments disclosed so far comprise the use of a smartphone for exploring and selecting options from a database comprising a representation of one or more IVR phone trees many computers connected to the Internet may also be used for telephone calls using for example Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP services such as Skype offered by the Microsoft Skype Division located in Luxembourg and Estonia. Using such a VoIP system a normal desktop or laptop computer can become a telephone terminal for the transmission of both 2 way voice and video. Embodiments of the invention may therefore also be implemented by a computer using the same steps of the methods previously disclosed but in which the previously described steps that display various items on a smartphone display are replaced by steps displaying the same items on one or more display devices connected to the computer and the previously described steps of input by pressing virtual buttons are replaced by steps in which the same input is provided using a keyboard mouse or other I O device.

One embodiment of such a computer system comprises a bus which interconnects major subsystems of computer system which typically comprises a central processing unit CPU a system memory typically random access memory RAM but which may also include read only memory ROM flash RAM or the like an input output I O controller one or more data storage systems such as an internal hard disk drive or an internal flash drive or the like a network interface to an external network such as the Internet a fiber channel network or the like and one or more drives operative to receive computer readable media CRM such as an optical disk compact disc read only memory CD ROM compact discs CDs floppy disks universal serial bus USB thumbdrives magnetic tapes etc.

The computer system may also comprise a keyboard a mouse and one or more various other I O devices such as a trackball an input tablet a touchscreen device an audio microphone and the like. These I O devices may be internal to the system as is found for example if the computer system is a laptop or may be external to the system as is found in typical desktop configurations. The computer system may also comprise a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT screen a flat panel display or other display device and an audio output device such as a speaker system. The computer system may also comprise an interface to an external display which may have additional means for audio video or other graphical display capabilities for remote viewing or analysis of results at an additional location.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may comprise read only memory ROM or flash memory as well as random access memory RAM as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the basic input output system BIOS that controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident within computer system are generally stored on storage units comprising computer readable media CRM such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk or flash drives.

Data can be imported into the computer system or exported from the computer system via drives that accommodate the insertion of portable computer readable media such as an optical disk a USB thumbdrive and the like. Additionally applications and data can be in the form of electronic signals modulated in accordance with the application and data communication technology when accessed from a network via network interface . The network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via an Internet PoP Point of Presence . The network interface may also provide such a connection using wireless techniques including a digital cellular telephone connection a Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection a digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras etc. . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. In some embodiments the devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that illustrated in .

Code representing software instructions to implement embodiments of the present invention can be stored on one or more computer readable storage media such as the system memory internal storage units and an optical disk a USB thumbdrive one or more floppy disks and the like. The operating system provided for computer system may be any one of a number of operating systems such as UNIX Linux MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS X or another known operating system.

Moreover regarding the signals described herein those skilled in the art will recognize that a signal can be directly transmitted from one block to another between single blocks or multiple blocks or can be modified e.g. amplified attenuated delayed latched buffered inverted filtered or otherwise modified by one or more of the blocks. Furthermore the computer as described above may be constructed as any one of or combination of computer architectures such as a tower a desktop a laptop a workstation or a mainframe server computer. The computer system may also be any one of a number of other portable computers or microprocessor based devices such as a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet computer an iPad an e reader or wearable computers such as smart watches intelligent eyewear and the like.

For the embodiments of the invention as presented in this application using such a computer software code representing the equivalent of the app and databases comprising representations if IVR phone trees may be read from storage devices or within the computer system or from CRM such as an optical disk or USB thumbdrive and executed using the CPU and system memory . The options as previously described as being displayed using the touchscreen display may now be presented on either an internal display or an external display connected by means of an interface and the user may make selections using a keyboard and or mouse synchronized with a graphical user interface GUI constructed within the software to allow coordination of the options shown on the available displays or .

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may be encoded in suitable hardware and or in software including firmware resident software microcode etc. . Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code comprising instructions encoded in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. Non transitory computer readable media on which instructions are stored to execute the methods of the invention are therefore in turn embodiments of the invention as well. In the context of this application a computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of a computer readable media would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM .

With this application several embodiments of the invention including the best mode contemplated by the inventors have been disclosed. It will be recognized that while specific embodiments may be presented elements discussed in detail only for some embodiments may also be applied to others.

While specific materials designs configurations platforms and process steps have been set forth to describe this invention and the preferred embodiments such descriptions are not intended to be limiting. Modifications and changes may be apparent to those skilled in the art and it is intended that this invention be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

