---

title: Apparatus for the efficient assembly of multi-pane insulating glass windows
abstract: An insulating glass unit (IGU) assembly line apparatus capable of interleaving double and triple pane IGUs in accordance with an IGU production schedule. Visual indicators or prompts instruct operators at the assembly line in configuring a sequence of IGUs. Triple pane IGUs are assembled with minimal contamination of a center glass lite. A non-contact Bernoulli pad is used to lift a glass lite off from a horizontal or vertical support that conveys it from a glass washer to an assembly station. Each of multiple pads has a capacity to lift approximately seven to ten pounds. Use of multiple pads per glass sheet or lite allows lites having dimensions up to 70 by 100 inches (assuming glass thickness of one quarter inch) to be assembled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09534439&OS=09534439&RS=09534439
owner: GED Integrated Solutions, Inc.
number: 09534439
owner_city: Twinsburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140718
---
The present application is a divisional application filed under 35 U.S.C. 121 and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 292 473 filed Nov. 9 2011 published as United States Patent publication number 2012 0047708 which claims priority to and is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 765 064 filed Apr. 22 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 726 487 which in turn claims priority from provisional U.S. Patent application Ser. No. 61 177 368 filed May 12 2009. The above patent and applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for all purposes.

This invention was made with Government support under DE NT000167 awarded by DOE. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to efficient assembly of triple pane windows that avoids contamination of the center pane during assembly.

One construction of insulating glass units IGU s involves forming a spacer frame by roll forming a flat metal strip into an elongated hollow rectangular tube or U shaped channel. A desiccant material is placed within the rectangular tube or channel and some provisions are made for the desiccant to come into fluid communication with or otherwise affect the interior space of the insulated glass unit. The elongated tube or channel is notched to allow the channel to be formed into a rectangular frame having a connecting tab at one corner. A sealant is applied to the outer sides of the spacer frame in order to bond two glass panes or lites to opposite side of the spacer frame. Existing heated sealants include hot melts and dual seal equivalents DSE . This system is not limited to these spacer frame types other spacer frame technologies that are generally known in the industry can also be used with this system. The pair of glass panes is positioned on the spacer frame to form a pre pressed insulating glass unit. Generally the pre pressed insulating glass unit is passed through an IGU oven to melt or activate the sealant. The pre pressed insulating glass unit is then passed through a press that applies pressure to the glass and sealant and compresses the IGU to a selected pressed unit thickness. The completed IGU is used to fabricate a window or door.

It is known to construct triple pane IGUs having three panes or lites. Two outer panes contact spacer frames which separate the outer panes from a center or inner pane. When assembling an IG unit it is important that the glass surfaces that are on the inside airspace remain uncontaminated for two reasons 1 preventing visual defects that cannot be cleaned and 2 preventing contamination of the perimeter of the glass which needs to remain clean or else the adhesive bond between the spacer seal and glass can be compromised ultimately leading to a seal failure.

GED assignee of the present patent application currently manufactures an assembly system which conveys two lites of glass parallel to each other horizontally through a glass washer. One lite gets a spacer applied and the other passes through untouched. The two pieces of glass are conveyed and aligned onto a pair of vertical pivoting tables that bring the two pieces of glass together. The advantage to this system is that the glass surfaces that are on the inside of the IG are never touched by the conveyance system after the glass has left a glass washer thus assuring the inside glass remains clean and contaminant free. This arrangement works very well for conventional dual glazed IG but is not conducive for fabricating triple IG s. A current difficulty with assembling triple IG units is keeping all inside glass surfaces Surfaces on contaminant free. With the current arrangement it is typical that the inner glass surfaces will make substantial contact with the glass handling system which presents a high risk of contamination of these surfaces.

This process flow is well established. Note that each conveyor set i.e. two adjacent conveyors is split into separate drive zones. This facilitates the ability to simultaneously process smaller IG s. If a sensor detects an IG over a certain length in this case over 49 only one IG is processed at a time.

The disclosure describes a process flow and method and a system for assembling triple IG units IGU s without contaminating a center glass lite. A non contact attraction pad is used to lift a glass lite off from a support that conveys it from a glass washer to an assembly station.

One exemplary system uses the non contact process to assemble multi pane insulating glass units IGUs from a manufacturing schedule that includes both double pane insulating glass units and triple pane insulating glass units. Conveyors of an assembly line move glass lites or panes along controlled travel paths to at least two different registration stations where lites are brought into registration with each other.

If the manufacturing schedule calls for a triple pane insulating glass unit a first outer glass lite and a first spacer that has been registered with the first outer glass lite are moved as a unit on a conveyor to a first registration station. At the first registration station a middle lite is placed into registration with the first spacer frame to form an intermediate IGU layer. The intermediate IGU layer is then moved to a different registration station. At the different registration station a second outer lite and second spacer frame are moved into registration with the middle lite of the intermediate IGU layer and pressed together to form a triple pane insulating glass unit.

If the manufacturing schedule calls for a double pane insulating glass unit a first outer glass lite and attached first spacer frame are moved as a unit to a selected one of the two registration stations where a second outer lite is brought into registration with the first spacer frame to form a double pane insulating glass unit.

These and other objects advantages and features are described in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The figures illustrate an assembly station for assembling triple pane insulating glass units IGUs . An overhead conveyor not shown delivers IGU spacer frames. U.S. Pat. No. 5 313 761 incorporated herein by reference for all purposes has a more complete description of an IGU. Sealant is applied to opposite sides of the frames for constructing triple pane insulating glass units. At the assembly station glass lites of a specified size that have been washed are moved to the assembly station . illustrates one lite that has been manually brought into registration with and attached to a first spacer frame for movement on a generally flat surface in the direction of the arrow . The combination of the one lite a first spacer frame and a muntin grid that is attached to the spacer frame move along a travel path indicated by the arrow away from the location they are assembled by placing the frame onto the top of the glass lite. The frame extends around an outer perimeter of the lite and when a muntin grid is included the grid fastens to the frame at certain locations defined by cutouts in the spacer frame.

A second glass lite moves in the direction of an arrow along a flat surface out of the washer to a registration station wherein the lite is caused to hover over a generally flat surface. The first lite and its associated spacer frame and as depicted in muntin grid is then moved into registration beneath the hovering glass lite . The second lite is then lowered into contact with sealant on the spacer frame to which the first glass lite is attached.

The first and second lites as well as a spacer frame sandwiched between the first and second lites forms a combination similar to the two pane IGU shown in FIG. . The combination is moved away from the registration station in the direction of the arrow to a downstream workstation. At the downstream workstation a second spacer frame note no muntin grid and third glass lite attached to the second spacer frame are brought into registration with the combination of the first and second glass lites by pressing an exposed surface of the second lite which was previously caused to hover at the registration station into engagement with sealant on the second spacer frame to configure a triple pane insulating glass unit. Registration of the glass lites means that for the IGU edges of the three lites align along all four sides within acceptable tolerances. After the triple pane IGU is configured the IGU is routed through an oven wherein sealant holding the panes to the frames of the triple pane insulating glass unit is cured.

A Process flow for triple IG units is depicted in and summarized with the following sequence of steps 

Note that Conveyors are an air flotation system which reduces the risk of the conveyor system marking the lite during transportation. With this process flow configuration the order of the glass feed can be altered to suit placement of the low e glass or muntins in the desired arrangement. Also with the assembly flow depicted in it is possible to run conventional dual IG units normally such as depicted in .

A lift system is located above conveyors and has lifting pads that are unique in design. They generate a lifting force for the lite without making physical contact with the glass surface. This is important for the system s ability to not mark the glass during handling and assembly. One such non contact lifting pad is made by SMC called a Cyclone Pad . A 100 mm diameter pad has the capacity to vertically lift 7 10 lbs per lifting pad. To lift a 70 100 thick piece of glass the lift system needs an array of pads spaced 18 apart. For this maximum glass size it is estimated that 20 Cyclone Pads are required. Twenty four pads in a six by four array are shown in . Similar products that may employ different technologies are available from other manufacturers such as New Way and Bosch but these products achieve the same end result non contact lifting of the glass. Since the vacuum lifting system does not touch the glass the glass has the ability to skate or move laterally. Therefore the glass needs to be registered and clamped on the edges to prevent lateral movement.

As described above it is important that during manufacture of an IGU that does not marks residual dirt or smudges are not left on the glass caused by operators or the conveyance system and it is especially difficult to accomplish this for a triple IGU. The following more detail of the sequence summarized above for assembling the center lite of a triple IG without making physical contact with the inner or outer flat surfaces of the lite.

Step An air flotation table on which the glass lite floats tilts or rotates about a rotation axis along an edge of the table about 10 degrees so that an edge of the center lite rests against a drive belt . This will register one edge of the glass and also provide a means to drive the glass lite from the edge using the drive belt. Another method of indexing the glass to the next station would be to leave the tabletop horizontal and have push bars actuate until the glass is pressed firmly against the drive belt.

Step Drive the center lite into the registration lift area at the registration station in a region of conveyors . The belt is driven by a motor and the gravity from tilting the table provides sufficient edge friction to drive the glass. Increasing the tilt angle will increase the drive friction which may be needed to stabilize the glass.

Step Register the center lite . Pop up cylindrical stops run parallel with the belt. These stops are also driven and will finish driving the glass lite into a corner of the registration station . A controller turns on the air lift system and returns the table beneath a vacuum frame assembly to a flat orientation. At this point the entire lift frame assembly lowers. The array of lift pads are in close proximity to the glass because of an air bearing characteristic of the lift pad. The pads are spring mounted to a pivoting assembly to ensure that the edge of the pad does not contact or scratch the glass. The lift frame assembly has a set of registration rollers on two sides that are essentially in line with the lower rollers . These rollers pivot slightly inward to push the glass away from the lower rollers. The glass is pushed from the other two sides against these stops by either an air cylinder or a belt. The center lite is clamped by the lift frame assembly and registered.

Step Lift the center lite from the flotation tabletop. The depiction shows an air cylinder lifting the entire lift frame assembly with the glass lite firmly clamped. A ballscrew or acme screw arrangement is used to lift the vacuum frame assembly . The center lite at this time is suspended above the tabletop.

Step The lower lite has a spacer frame and possibly attached muntin grid and is now conveyed laterally across conveyor or depending on size of lite conveyors . This conveyor does not need to include a flotation table since an inner glass surface does not touch this conveyor. The pop up stops that border between conveyors and between are retracted under the tabletop and the lower lite with the spacer is conveyed onto conveyor and for larger lites 49 onto conveyor . The pop up stops are raised up by pneumatic actuators and the glass lite is registered against these stops by motor driven push bars possibly with gravity assistance from the tilting conveyor. This registers the lower lite with respect to the center lite .

Step The center lite is lowered onto the lower lite until contact or near contact is made with the spacer. At this time the lift pads release the attraction to the center lite and the center lite now engages the spacer that is already attached to the lower lite. A mechanism may also be used to tack the edges of the glass to the spacer to prevent shifting or a mis assembly condition caused by gravity when the lower center lite are brought to a vertical orientation by the downstream butterfly table. The tacking process can be achieved by either lowering edge clamps to a predetermined size using a sensor to determine press position or using a motor load routine to determine adequate pressing.

The glass lite is corner registered by controlled movement of two push bars forming a part of the lift frame assembly . These push bars register the lite against the pop up end stops that engage two sides of the glass lite . One push bar extends along one side of the vacuum frame assembly in the X direction and a second push bar extends a shorter distance along a generally perpendicular direction to the first. To accommodate small glass sizes the push bars must clear pass beneath the vacuum pads as the bars move inward and outward.

In the exemplary embodiment the lift pads are oriented in an array as shown and are mounted to across members that extend generally parallel to a direction of glass movement in the X direction. These cross members are coupled to a linear bearing supported by a frame for movement back and forth in the Y direction. In the exemplary embodiment each cross member supports six pads and five of the six pads can be moved relative to the cross members along guides attached to a respective one of the cross members . As the push bar moves inward to register the lite in a corner of the vacuum assembly it contacts outer circumferences of one or more pads supported by a first cross member and moves the nearest set of vacuum pads and accompanying cross member. When the vacuum pads coupled to a given cross member reach an end of travel limit near an adjacent row or set of vacuum pads the push bar stops and the pads are lifted up and over the push bar so the push bar can continue to move toward the stops and register the glass lire . During this process one or more additional rows of vacuum pads may be repositioned by the push bar .

After the pads raise up out of the way so the push bar can pass beneath the vacuum pads return to their original position. On a return trip by the push bar the vacuum pads are again contacted on the opposite side by the push bar and moved to their original positions shown in the Figures to await receipt of a next subsequent glass lite at the registration station. Movement of the push bars is accomplished with a suitable drive such as a servo motor coupled through a suitable transmission not shown . Up and down movement of the pads and pop up stops is accomplished by suitable pneumatic actuators. Both the servo motors and pneumatic actuators along with a vacuum pump operate under control of a controller which in the exemplary embodiment is a programmable controller .

Currently the butterfly tables are raised and lowered by hydraulic cylinders. See also U.S. Pat. No. 6 553 653 which is incorporated herein by reference. During the pivoting up and down mechanical limit switches are used to shift the hydraulic cylinders between high and low speeds. This is done so that during the transition from horizontal to vertical the momentum of the table does not make the glass tip over center when it is near vertical.

The invention senses the glass size and adapts the butterfly sequence according to a predetermined motion profile. Larger lites need to run slower than smaller lites especially as the butterfly table approaches vertical. Having adaptive motion technology in the butterfly table can increase throughputs since it is not necessary to run lites at speeds slower than possible.

To do this the butterfly table has a servo controlled system. A servo motor is used in place of the hydraulic system. An electro pneumatic proportional air regulator servo system can also be used or a ball screw system could be used. There are many ways to accomplish the end goal of coupling the machine s motion profile with a particular glass size. Recipes or ranges of glass sizes can be assigned to one motion profile and another range of glass sizes assigned to another profile etc. . . . These recipes would be stored in a computer or controller and they can be recalled either manually or assigned to a specific input by a sensor array.

At an input station of the assembly line glass lites of a specified size are placed onto one or the other of two conveyors by a user but larger lites that are greater than a certain width contact both conveyors . In one example embodiment the assembly line is cable of receiving a lite having a width of ninety six inches 96 . The conveyors move the lites to an entrance of a washer . A controller is coupled to a display monitor conveniently located so that a user can refer to the monitor as he or she loads glass lites onto the conveyors . A display screen depicts lites that make up a then current IGU and one or more next subsequent IGUs. The lites for different IGUs are displayed in different colors. The user is specifically prompted as to which lite of multiple number of lites on the display should be moved from a cart containing many glass lites. As one way of simplifying the task of unloading the cart the lites or that make up a particular IGU have been bundled together at a cutting station where lites are cut to size upstream in the IGU fabrication process. A physical mark not shown is also typically placed on the washer entrance to aid the operator in properly aligning an edge of the lite as it is placed on the input conveyor.

Coupled to an input side of the washer are two visual indicators in one embodiment these are light emitting lamps which are illuminated by outputs conveyed from a PLC controller to a driver circuit not shown coupled to the controller . Each indicator is capable of emitting a green or go signal and a red or stop signal. When a next lite should be placed on one of the two conveyors feeding the washer a green indicator is illuminated over a particular one of the two conveyors .

After washing lites that entered the washer on the conveyor are moved away from the washer by means of two conveyors having rollers. Lites moving on the conveyor are manually brought into registration with and attached to a spacer frame at an assembly station . The assembly station includes two tables having non driven rollers that allow the user to slide the lites to a desired position and orientation. The combination of lite and spacer frame is then moved away from the assembly station lite facing down on generally flat conveyors C C. At the assembly station a video monitor prompts the users at the station typically two people . It is important that the users at the station follow instructions displayed on the monitor since the monitor indicates specific information for each combination of lite and spacer frame assembled at the station . As an example the monitor will indicate if the user is to add a muntin grid to the spacer frame in addition to attaching the spacer frame to the lite. Spacer frames built in accordance with U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 678 377 and 5 313 761 to Leopold and assigned to the assignee of the present application have a connecting tab at one corner. These two patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. In the illustrated embodiment this corner tab must be oriented in a specific way as the lite and spacer frame are pressed together. As an example the glass lite coming from the washer is laid on a table and the frame placed on top of the lite with the tab on the lower right corner as seen from the position of the washer. It is important that the assembled window made from the IGU has the tab at the top portion of the window and also important that for triple pane windows the tabs on the two spacers are in the same location when mated together at the downstream butterfly table.

Lites placed on the conveyor on the input side of the washer leave the washer on the conveyor . If the lite is less in size than one half the width of a washer opening the lite continues automatically without user intervention directly from the conveyor to air lift belt conveyors C and C at a uniform speed to avoid scuffing onto belt drives extending from first and second ends of the conveyors. As seen in selectively actuatable lift cylinders are connected to support rails that raise a plurality of air lift arrangements above the surface and between the belt drives . The belts operate to move the lites in the direction of the x axis as illustrated in .

The belt drives are coupled to a motor through gear chain and axle turning the belt drives in harmony with each other in direction of arrow B. If the lite is greater in size than one half the width of the washer opening a user manually transfers a lite exiting the left side of the washer centerline using the air lift arrangements . The operator utilizes the air lift arrangements by raising the arrangements via lift cylinders above the belts by actuating a switch coupled to the cylinders. In one example embodiment a sensor detects a large lit the washer width and automatically lifts the air lift arrangement. The switch is a foot petal coupled to pneumatic cylinders which the operator uses to also lower the air lift arrangement after the lite is shifted.

With the air lift arrangements located above the belt drives the operator manually rotates the lite by its edge surfaces through ninety degrees skirting or floating the lite along an air curtain above the conveyors C and C. Operators touch only edges of the lite as it is rotated from position 1 shown in phantom to position 2 shown in solid on air lift arrangements as illustrated in . The air lift arrangements include a plurality of air apertures that allow for the flow of air for the rotational floating of the lite. The air passing through the air apertures is provided from an air supply line or common manifold not shown of 80 100 psi.

The two in line conveyors C C move lites in a direction toward a first registration or lift station that includes two conveyors C C. As explained in more detail below the conveyors C C include belts that are movable with respect to a plane at which the lites enter the first registration station and more particularly the belts drop down under the command of the PLC controller at certain phases of the registration process performed at the station .

The alternate embodiment shown in is capable of processing two double pane IGUs at once and to accomplish this performance enhancement separate lites and attached spacer frames are supported on conveyor pairs along the assembly line .

When a triple pane IGU is assembled see one preferred sequence dictates that a first glass lite is placed on the conveyor passes through the washer and moves along a flat surface of the conveyor to the assembly station where it is mated with a spacer frame . A second lite is placed on the conveyor moves through the washer and exits along the conveyor and into the registration station . This second lite is to be a middle lite of the triple pane IGU and is caused to hover over a generally flat surface of the registration station and then corner registered as described below. This allows the first lite and its associated spacer frame to be side shifted away from two conveyors C C for registration beneath the hovering glass lite. The middle hovering lite is then lowered into contact with the spacer frame to which the first glass lite is attached.

In an alternative example embodiment the contact with the spacer frame includes contact with a sealant or adhesive located on the spacer frame as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. As seen in lites from the washer follow either a left side path or a right side path as seen from the position of the washer.

The assembly line is controlled by a dedicated PLC controller and a personal computer running a Windows 7 operating system. A preferred PLC is commercially available as part number X20CP1485 manufactured by B R Automation. The computer executes a human machine interface HMI application program that accepts schedules produced by business logic software licensed by the assignee of the present disclosure GED Integrated Solutions Inc. and is designated WinIG 5. An electrical block diagram of the PC and PLC is depicted in . Other GED licensed software produces glass lites spacer frames and muntin grids for assembling a Triple or a Dual pane IG unit. The business logic software has two modes of operation. These modes regulate the flow of data for sequencing and the mating of glass lites with spacer frames.

A schedule driven mode for controlling the assembly line utilizes WinIG 5 schedule data as the primary control element for co coordinating movement of product through the assembly line . The schedule driven mode uses glass data derived from selecting a WinIG Batch from a WinG schedule. The glass lite data is then retrieved from the selected batch in the sequence specified by the batch. This mode assumes that the glass Lite sequence the sequence of the lites in the glass cart is the same sequence that the spacers are produced.

The HMI software running on the PC prompts the user on the monitor to load the washer queue based on the batch derived glass lite information from a selected glass batch cart . This typically results in washer loading of lites in consecutive cart locations starting from the beginning of the cart and going to the end of the cart. The actual IG Unit lite ID Slot ID is displayed on the monitors depicting proper load sequence for the washer left washer side then right washer side or right then left etc. and at the assembly station frame orientation muntin grid if present and grid configuration. The washer loading sequence on the display monitor is derived from the IG Unit s layering configuration. Items like glass type muntin properties two tone non symmetric grids glass size assembly tab orientation and gas filling are taken into account when determining which lite of an IG Unit is sent to the operators at the assembly station . Spacers are assumed to be produced and loaded on the overhead J hook conveyor in the same sequence as specified in the selected WinIG Batch. Spacers are identified on the overhead 1 hook conveyor by a label or identifier that is either directly printed on the spacer or on a label attached to the spacer that contains the WinIG Schedule ID and Unit ID number or a unique tracking identifier. The label identifiers are used for validation by the operator at the station of a correct correspondence between a spacer taken from the overhead conveyor with a correct glass lite that exits the washer . In a region of the assembly line there are reserved areas not shown where glass and spacers can be off loaded when the need arises to remove a glass lite or spacer frame because of breakage or bad missing components in the sequence.

A second mode uses the spacer frame sequence as generated by other software to dictate the assembly line order or sequence of operation. Each spacer is processed at an upstream location where spacer frames are manufactured by roll forming metal strips into a spacer frame. Typically this manufacture is controlled by a user operated switch. The production sequence of spacers at the up stream location determines the glass lite sequence that the washer operator must load. When in this mode the assembly line business application software is linked to a spacer frame manufacturing computer. When the spacer frame machine one such machine is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 610 681 to Calcei et al assigned to the assignee of the present application and incorporated herein by reference produces a spacer that spacer information is sent to the assembly line business logic software executing on the computer . The assembly line business logic software uses the spacer information and looks up the IG Unit IGU information. The washer queue and washer display on the monitor are then updated with the proper lites based upon the spacer production sequence as dictated by the spacer frame manufacturing machine. As in the schedule driven mode there are reserved areas around the assembly Line where glass lites and spacer frame can be off loaded when the need arises to remove the glass or spacer because of breakage bad missing or out of sequence components.

Data structures of the PLC control operation of the various conveyors of the assembly line. The business logic software of the computer reads these structures as the IG Unit or IG Lite is processed through the assembly line. The data within the PLC registers is normally populated by the PLC itself but can also when needed be populated by the computer .

There are four monitors used to display status to different operator stations within the assembly line. These monitors depict information associated with the Washer IG Assembly the Oven and overall Queue Management. Three of the monitors are touch screen sensitive and are configured to allow operator control Washer IG Assembly and Oven . The fourth display is View Only and displays the overall flow of the IG units through the system Queue Management . Microsoft Windows 7 allows each monitor to be defined and configured to display a specific area of the Microsoft Desktop. The default monitor definition is as follows. Washer Operation is displayed on Monitor 1 IG Assembly Operation is displayed on Monitor 2 Oven Operation is displayed on Monitor 3 and Queue Management is displayed on Monitor 4. Monitors 1 and 2 correspond to the two monitors of .

The business model software running on the computer uses information about the washer to notify the washer operator if a lite is too big or if it should be loaded as a single lite. Business logic implemented by the HMI software examines the IG unit layering information and determines which side of the washer to load a given lite. For cases where the IG Units shortest dimension is greater than the washer s width The exemplary washer has an entrance width of 96 inches then the lite needs to be processed as a single. The Washer monitor shows the operator which lites to load what side of the washer to use and the sequence that the lites should be loaded. The washer also incorporates two lamps positioned on the right and left entry sides of the washer. These lamps indicate to the operator which side of the washer the lite should be loaded on. A Green light indicates the load side. A Red light indicates that a lite has been loaded on the wrong side of the washer . Glass lites that are greater than the washers width are depicted as single lite loads the load side indicator lamps will show the operator which washer side to load these lites. The washer does not sense what lite the operator actually loads so it s important that the operator follows the sequence dictated on the monitor and follow the washer load lamps to load the lite on a correct side of the washer.

Minimum Length inch User enters the smallest length of a lite that can be consistently transferred through the washer.

Minimum Width inch User enters the smallest width of a lite that can be consistently transferred through the washer.

Maximum Length inch User enters the largest length of a lite that can be transferred through the washer.

Maximum Width inch User enters the largest width of a lite that can be transferred through the washer.

For enhanced visibility a different background color is assigned to each IG Unit and the lites that make up that unit. Additionally a Remake color and a Bypass Color are also defined. The sequence colors repeat every sixth unit. To change a color during setup a user touches a color icon and a color selector launches so that a new color can be selected.

A middle lite topping screen allows the user to set size constraints for operation of the butterfly table . The parameters on this screen are as follows 

As an illustrative example an operator at the IG Assembly station selects a WinIG Batch that is to be processed. This operation can also be changed to allow a different station operator such as a Washer operator to perform these steps. A Schedule Selection screen not shown provides a number of ways of selecting a proper schedule of IGUs for processing through the assembly line. Schedule selection is presently accomplished by 

The Washer station monitor indicates to the operator what lites to load and how to orient them for entry into the washer. The monitor identifies to the operator the proper lite orientation size glass description and glass cart slot location. All lites loaded into the washer must be loaded with the short side first. There is a short side indicator 

He or she can touch the screen monitor to launch a selection dialog and the operator selects a Load Glass option to validate and trigger the graphical movement of the lite from a Virtual Washer Staging Queue into a washer queue this action also transfers data to the Washer PLC data structure of the PLC from the computer .

A second option available to the operation is to actuate Left and Right foot switches not shown at the entry of the washer that communicate a signal to the PLC. The operator presses a foot switch that corresponds to the washer load indicator flashing Hand Icon to validate the Lite load process.

A PLC Washer data structure is loaded with the necessary information for the washer PLC operation when the operator uses one of the two above methods to validate a lite load. The Virtual Washer Staging Queue is populated by the computer s business logic. Depending upon which mode of operation is selected the Virtual Washer Queue is loaded based upon the IG Unit sequence and the IG layer configuration. Items like glass type muntin configuration determine if an inner lite or outer lite will be sent to the assembly station for a given double pane IGU.

Loading of the washer is linked with the IG Assembly station . A Virtual Washer Queue is maintained by the computer and contains all the lites for an IG Batch. The Virtual Washer Queue has a visual portion that is displayed on the Washer display monitor . The visual portion of the washer virtual queue is made up of 6 lite cells 3 lites for the left virtual washer queue and 3 lites for the right virtual washer queue. The visual portion of the Virtual Washer Queue displays the upcoming 6 lites of the IG Batch 3 dual IG units or 2 triple IG units .

Referring to the following information about a lite is depicted on the viewing monitor for lites currently part of the visual portion of the virtual washer queue. In the upper left portion of the display for a given lite the monitor displays an indication of the lite s batch unit. On the upper right is an alphanumeric descriptor of that unit. In the center of the lite is a cart position indicator telling the operator where in the then current cart that lite is located. Immediately above the cart position is a designator indicating the type of glass. Immediately below the cart position is an indication for the width and height dimension of the glass as listed on the schedule. Finally a short side indicator indicates the short side of the glass lite that is to be placed first into the washer.

The Virtual Washer Queue is loaded by the washer business logic software after a Schedule Batch is selected or by the spacer frame operator sequence depending upon which mode is in use. The PC running a washer business logic checks the IG Unit layering configuration and size of the IG units. The washer business logic then populates the Virtual Washer Queue both left and right sides with the lites from the IG Units. The left and right sides of the Virtual Washer Queue are correctly populated with the proper lites for that IG unit based upon IG Unit Layering information. The inner or outers lites are not always placed on the same side of the Virtual Washer Queue. Lite placement is determined by the IG Units layer configuration properties such as glass type glass width and height spacer tab orientation etc. depicts a typical queue after a WinIG schedule has been initially loaded Starting at Unit 1 . The first three units in the queue having lites from cart positions 1 6 are dual IGs.

Normally the glass lites are unloaded from the cart in sequential ascending order left to right but this is not guaranteed for all triple configurations because of the IG layering makeup. The following are some of the items that the business unit software takes into account when determining which lite to load through the washer 

As noted the screen depicted in represents three dual pane IGUs. The two lites that make up a given IG Unit are represented one above the other in a different background color for easy visual separation. A lite load indicator will flash Hand icon with index finger indicating to the operator that this is the next lite to be loaded into the washer. Single load lites incorporate a process alert icon yellow triangle with exclamation mark with a message Lite single load only attached to the lite image.

The presently implemented business logic software has Lite Loading Rules Summarized below. When Assembly Tab is configured as Height First .

The washer station software identifies lites that are too small or too large to be processed through the assembly line . These lites are cut at the cutting station and are loaded into the carts but they need to be removed from the sequence and manually processed. The software determines the lite information from a database maintained by the PC and checks setup information to determine if the lite meets the necessary standards to be processed through the assembly line.

When a lite is identified for removal or selected to be rejected other lites associated with the IG Unit are marked with a removal or rejected status. These lites either need to remain in the glass cart or physically be moved to transfer cart whatever process is best suited for the user.

Removing a lite is performed by touching the lite s depiction on the monitor see and selecting Remove from a dialog that is displayed. The removed IG Unit is then added to the Remove List .

A Remove List maintained by the PC contains IG Units that have been removed from the production sequence because they are outside the limits of the Assembly Line . The IG Units listed in the Remove List are NOT available to be inserted back into the assembly sequence. To see the items in the Remove List and to perform operations on the items in the Remove List the user selects an option in a tools menu item on the monitor under tools designated Remove Management .

A Reject List contains IG Units that are defective in some manner but meet the production specifications of the assembly line . IG Units listed in the Reject List are available to be inserted back into the assembly sequence.

The sequence position for an inserted unit will be the first valid position that is subsequent to the visible portion of the Virtual Washer Queue . The visible portion of the Virtual Washer Queue contains a maximum of 6 lites and are managed by the type of IG Unit that is coming or has entered the visible portion of the Virtual Washer Queue duals triples or single load duals .

The assembly or topping station is where operators bring together the IG lite coming from the washer and the spacer frame. The joining of an IG lite and spacer frame creates an IG Layer . A standard dual glazed unit consists of one layer and one additional lite glass spacer and glass a triple glazed unit consists of two layers and one additional lite glass spacer glass spacer and glass .

The viewing monitor at the assembly station visually guides the operators in how to assemble IG Unit layers. IG Unit layers are made up using a glass component lite and a spacer component. The spacer component may have an additional grid component. The Butterfly station performs the final assembly of the IG layers into an IG Unit.

Business logic determines if a pair of IG Units can be processed together or if the IG Unit has to be processed as a single because of size constraints. Processing IG Units in pairs is a preferred way however there are some conditions where an IG Unit must be processed through the assembly line as a single IG Unit. The following rules govern when IG Units will be processed as a singles.

The monitor screens depicted in shows processing of two consecutive dual pane glazed IG Units Glass spacer and Glass that are assembled two at a time at the butterfly table station . depict a sequence of glass lite and spacer frame positions. In a region of the assembly station tables include skate rollers to position lites for spacer assembly. The operator manually positions the lites that comes from the washer to a position on the tables where they then place the spacer onto the lite. As described below the lift station includes 2 independent powered conveyors and is controlled by the PLC . This station can process non spacer lites of a dual pane IGU received from the conveyors C C and it can also processes the center or middle lite of triples received from the conveyors C C. Downstream from the assembly station are located 2 independent powered conveyors C C that are also controlled by the PLC . When an operator at the Spacer Topping station has placed a spacer on its associated lite the operator manually skates that lite spacer combination layer and the conveyor moves it away until it covers over a photo key or sensor S or S. The powered conveyors C C are activated and position the lite onto one of the two conveyors C C based on outputs from the sensor S S.

The registration station also has 2 independent powered conveyors C C that are controlled by the PLC . This station accepts lites from the conveyors C C and positions these lite s onto the conveyors C C in the station . The conveyors C C C C are also termed the Butterfly staging conveyors because IG layers that are on these conveyors move lites or layers into the downstream butterfly station for IG assembly.

In a center Lite from the eleventh slot of the cart has been moved to the conveyor C and holds there until an upstream conveyor C at the registration station is empty. The lite on the conveyor C cannot advance onto the conveyors C C until a previous IG triple or double still in process is moved.

An operator s at the assembly station retrieves the spacer muntin grid combination for mating with the lite on the table from the overhead J hook conveyor. The operator s place the spacer grid combination on the lite with the spacer tab and muntin configuration positioned per a visual depiction on the monitor . This depiction indicates a connection tab position for a first of two triple layers is on the bottom right side of the IG unit the muntin surface color wood grain is up and the muntin seams are on the right and top edges of the muntin. In this particular IG configuration where the width is less than the height the spacer needs to be rotated 90 degrees and flipped to insure proper assembly of all the components as how the IG Unit was ordered .

The first layer lite plus spacer of a triple pane IGU will at the registration station go beneath the center lite in as further described below in detail. When the operator at the assembly station finishes placing the spacer grid combination on the lite and pushes the combination on to the conveyor C. The conveyor C moves the lite and spacer combination to the conveyor C for transfer across the space between the conveyor C and the conveyor C at an appropriate time. This situation is depicted in .

Once the registration station is clear of previous IGU elements the center lite is moved into the registration station and positioned on the conveyor C in engagement with a one or more pop up stops . The conveyor C has several pop up stops. Multiple stops are needed to make sure a leading edge of the lite stays square. As shown in the stop has a cylindrical roller at the end of the conveyor C pivotally mounted to a support and coupled to an actuator operated by the PLC for pivoting movement into and out of a path of travel of the lite about a pivot axis . See This situation is depicted in . The center lite is raised and the combination of the outer lite and spacer of the triple will be transferred into position beneath the center lite as shown in . The center lite will be lowered onto the lite spacer combination. This process completes the first layering of a triple.

As the lites are registered at the station a third lite from the twelfth slot in the cart for the triple moves from the washer and is placed onto the tables for registration with a second spacer. As in the instance of the first spacer now positioned between and attached to the first two lites the monitor prompts the operator s regarding proper placement of the spacer with respect to the third lite. In the layer constituting the first two lites is positioned on the conveyor C and the combination of the third lite and the second spacer a second layer are positioned on the conveyor C. The operator is prompted and in response actuates a switch causing the PLC to actuate conveyors C C and these layers move together into the butterfly table .

The prompt screen shown in the depiction of is an example depiction of a monitor display that helps a user orient and assemble a layer that contains a lite from a next or thirteenth slot of a cart near the washer. Lites from slots and of IG Unit 4 the triple waiting for movement to the butterfly table are also depicted on the monitor. The Spacer Tab orientation of the lite from the thirteenth slot is in the bottom right. This lite will be side shifted beneath a middle lite from slot so that when the butterfly table raises the first layer containing lites from slot and on its edge the Spacer Assembly Tab will be correctly aligned with the second layer of the triple unit 5 lite from slot . The finished second layer for unit 5 taken from slot will have its spacer assembly tab located in the top right corner as seen for the lite from slot that makes up unit 4 that is shown in the depiction of .

As the operator moves a lite spacer combination onto the conveyor C the lite spacer combination covers a photo sensor S on the right side of the conveyor C which causes a depiction on the monitor to change. The conveyor C carries lites over a second sensor S that allows the conveyors C C to properly stage the lite spacer combination in line with the previously staged outer lite in the x direction. Note the lite from the thirteenth slot is depicted as requiring a grid or muntin and the prompt also depicts proper installation of this grid. PLC Topping Data structure is periodically updated using triggering sensors S S located along the conveyor system along with HMI business logic that responds to those sensors.

The assembly Line PC implements a queue monitoring and updating dialog. This graphical dialog allows the operator to visually view and alter the contents of each IGU of the assembly line queue. Currently only Removal of an IG Unit is supported. The operator clicks on the area of interest. A grid table is populated with the IG Unit information that is in that queue. The operator can then perform an updating function on the items in the queue.

The first and second lites of a triple pane IGU as well as a spacer frame sandwiched between the first and second lites form a first layer . See . The two lites and spacer frame combination forming the first layer are moved away from the registration lift station by the conveyors C C to a downstream workstation that includes a butterfly table . The butterfly table is shown in .

A second spacer frame of the triple pane IGU which may or may not include a muntin grid and third glass lite attached to the second spacer frame collectively form a second layer . The second layer is conveyed on conveyors C C to the downstream butterfly table . The butterfly table includes four conveyors C C C C see . These conveyors C C rotatable about the longitudinal or x direction while in a first horizontal position advance first and second layers and in the direct of Arrows A as shown in from conveyors C C. The advancement of the layers is achieved by mechanical belt drives when on the conveyors C C and by rollers coupled to a drive on the butterfly table conveyors C C.

As the layers and are advanced on the conveyors C C in the horizontal position a prescribed first registration stopping is defined by pop up stops that move upward from the conveyor in the z direction on both tables and . The first registration stopping point defined by stops are aligned in the x or longitudinal direction on both tables and allowing for precise corner alignment between layers when the tables and rotate to bring the two layers into engagement. In one example embodiment the stops are pneumatic cylinders with a urethane sleeve which in the retracted position are below the wheels of the conveyor and when extended to the stop position are above the conveyor.

A second set of stops are similarly positioned on both tables and but upstream from the first set of pop up stops as illustrated in . The second set of stops allow the butterfly table to be double tooled that is two dual pane IGUs are assembled at once. Although not presently implemented two sets of the layers of a triple pane IGU could be moved onto the tables and and registered at the two sets of stops to assemble two triple pane IGUs at once with one rotation cycle of the table . The distance between stops determines the maximum dimension that two IGUs at once can be processed. Any dimension larger than this will result in one IGU being processed per cycle.

Corner alignment is achieved between first and second layers once positioned by the stops also if two IGUs are assembled per cycle as the first and second tables respectively are rotated about the x axis toward each other as shown in . The rotation of the layers on the tables brings the layers into engagement with each other and in particular sealant on the second spacer frame contacts the second lite to configure a triple pane insulating glass unit or final layer . When the two tables are rotated about the x axis as shown in by arrows R the second layer leaves table upon reaching a substantially vertical position. At this point the second layer moves to engage the first layer through contact with the spacer frame or adhesive or sealant placed on the spacer with the second lite on the first layer.

Once the second layer contacts the first layer the two layers are pressed against the table forming the fixedly secured final layer by pusher arms that move in the bi rotational direction indicated by Arrows S in . The pusher arms are actuated in their rotational direction by a clevis and yoke connection which are coupled to one or more pneumatically actuated cylinders shown in . The layers and when in the vertical position are supported by a plurality of lifting fingers spaced between the driven urethane rollers extending between ends of tables and . These lifting fingers are coupled to a lift cylinder coupled to a solenoid actuated valve which operates under the control of the PLC . In the horizontal position of the tables these fingers are retraction out of the way.

The first table is fixed in its lateral position along the y axis direction and supported by fixturing . Rotation of the table about the x axis is achieved by hydraulic cylinders . The second table is supported on a fixture that translates laterally along the y axis direction of arrow T on slides . The fixture is driven along the slides by a hydraulically actuated cylinder shown in . Rotation of the table about the x axis is achieved by hydraulic cylinders . The amount of lateral movement of table and pressing with push arms is a function that is controlled based on data programmed into the PLC or controller that accounts for the size height and width and or weight of the various layers and as well as their combined thickness.

Solenoid valves are coupled to the PLC to selectively couple the hydraulic output from a pump to the cylinders and to achieve proper speed and pressure based on the weight and or size thickness of the layers. In the illustrated example embodiment encoders monitor pivoting of the tables and side to side movement of the movable table . These encodes allow the PLC to monitor response to controlled outputs and provide closed loop control over the position lateral and rotation about the tables relative to a position demand. The solenoid valves and are proportionally regulated by the PLC to control the rotational speed i.e. angular velocity of the tables and through cylinders and . This allows for maximizing both speed cycle time and quality based on the type and or glass size height and width of the IGU being processed by the butterfly table . For example the valves and are provided a signal ranging 0 10 volts from the PLC where 10 v provides for a fully open valve while 0 v would be a completely closed valve. In one example embodiment the valves and are manufactured by Eaton Vickers under part number KBHDG5V 7 33C130N65.

Illustrated in are various angular velocity profiles for different IGU sizes shown over time for a single cycle of the butterfly table . The profiles in illustrate the ability of the assembly line to dynamically change angular velocity of the butterfly table over time as desired for a particular IGU being cycled increasing both quality and cycle time.

Once the rotation of the tables and is complete and the final layer is formed the tables return to the horizontal position which is adjustable based on variable stops . The final layer is advanced upon return of the tables to the horizontal position via conveyors C and C into a heating operation achieved by an oven as illustrated in . That is in an exemplary embodiment after the triple pane IGU is configured the IGU is routed by conveyors C C to the oven where sealant that secures the panes or lites to the spacer frames of the triple pane insulating glass unit is cured. Although operation of the table has been described with regard to a triple pane IGU the control over speed of rotation of the tables and relative spacing between tables is also used with double pane IGUs that are being pressed together.

Turning now to a registration lift station constructed in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure is depicted in greater detail. Registration of the glass lites means that for the IGU edges of the three lites for a triple pane IGU align along all four sides within acceptable tolerances. The lift station includes conveyors C C and utilize conveyors C and C as described above for movement of IGU components in the y direction. As described above with regard to the conveyors C C receive first and third lites and spacer frames and from the assembly station . The second or center lite is received at the lift station directly from the glass washer after traversing a region between the washer and the station on belt drives that make up the conveyors C C.

It is important when making triple IGUs as illustrated in that the center or second lite is not contaminated as a result of contact between the planer surfaces of the glass forming the lite with other members operator hands for example which produce smudges scrapes smears dirt and the like. Advantageously the second lite is attached to the spacer frame at the lift station without either planer surface of the lite being contacted after leaving the washer by anything other than the belts . The belts most preferably move lites in the x direction through the conveyors C C C C. The belts that provide movement in the x direction are illustrated in for the two conveyors at the registration lift station .

The lift station in the illustrated example embodiment of comprises a tilt frame and a support base . The tilt frame is further illustrated in the perspective view of the plan view of and the elevation view of . In one example embodiment the tilt frame is enclosed within a mezzanine on its upper surface not shown covered with Plexiglas access doors for maintenance and to operate as a clean room to the IGU assembly process that takes place below the mezzanine.

The tilt frame is utilized when making triple pane windows as illustrated in . In particular the tilt frame raises the center lite without contacting its planar surface during a first operation. Once the center lite is raised it is positioned on a first outer lite and spacer frame that are registered at a registration point below the center lite during a second or subsequent operation. The registered center lite is then lowered into contact with the registered spacer frame and or adhesive or sealant located on the spacer frame . illustrates the movement of the first outer lite and spacer frame assembly forming a triple IGU along the support base for positioning at registration point beneath a suspended center lite held by the tilt frame . The suspension of the center lite by the tilt frame in is not illustrated for purposes of clarity.

Referring again to the second center lite is transported along conveyors C and C from the glass washer station to two conveyors C C along the x axis in the direction of Arrow U see also . For conveyors C C the belt assemblies are raised and lowered by cylinders as further illustrated in through spaced apart conveyor rollers during advancement of the center lite . The second or center lite continues longitudinally along the x axis in the direction of Arrow U until engaging edge stops that are actuated by a cylinder above the belt assemblies to approximately register the middle lite along a first edge . The edge stops are retracted below the first belt assemblies when the assembly of the first layer is complete.

Once the second or center lite reaches the first registration point of first edge the tilt frame lowers relative to the support base in the direction of the z axis that is four corners A B C and D of the tilt frame uniformly lower toward the second lite at an equal rate such that the tilt frame remains parallel with the planer surfaces of the second lite and support frame . Upon reaching a prescribed distance confirmed by one of a plurality of lift assemblies having an encoder see further described below in detail all four corners simultaneously raise away from the support base lifting the second lite off the first belt assemblies without contacting the planer surface of the lite.

The lift assemblies use the Bernoulli principle to prevent contact of the planer surface on the second lite . That is the lift assemblies produce a high speed volumetric flow over the upper planer surface of the second lite which in turn generates a lower pressure on the upper planer surface than the pressure on the lower planer surface to lift the middle lite without making contact against the lift assemblies as better seen in or any other devices associated with the lift table once lifted from belts . In the illustrated example embodiment clearance between the lift assembly and lite is shown by distance d which is maintained to approximately 0.003 inches between each lift assembly and lite.

In one example embodiment several lift assemblies are used to lift the center lite . One lift assembly as seen in includes an encoder assembly that includes an encoder used during the lifting of the center lite providing a closed loop control with the computer or PLC at the position of the lift assemblies relative to the demand position and lite. Stated another way the encoder measures up and down along the z axis position of the center lite relative to the support frame as the tilt frame is raised and lowered by mechanical actuators to the desired location. Illustrated by way of the example embodiment of the lift assembly having the encoder is represented by lift assembly

The encoder provides a feedback signal confirming the distances for raising lowering lifting and releasing of the center lite . In one example embodiment the lift assemblies are commercially made by Bosch Rexroth under product number NCT 100 AL the specification sheet being incorporated herein by reference.

Each of the lift assemblies comprise a lift pad having a lift face that self align through leveling assemblies . The leveling assemblies include a plurality of pins each having a corresponding spring retained by the head of the pin and a corresponding washer . The pins pass through oversized corresponding openings in a guide plate and fasten into an upper portion of the lift pad . The oversized corresponding openings and leveling assemblies allow the lift pad tilt or self level the lite if the glass is not exactly parallel to the face of the pad as illustrated by arrows J. The leveling assemblies also prevent resonance between the lite and pad reducing noise associated with the operation of the lift table .

The lift assemblies further comprise a central post that passes through and out the top of a bearing block . The bearing block is slidably connected to rails as illustrated in . The one lift assembly that includes the encoder assembly as shown in the example embodiment of further comprises a lift tab that is coupled to both the top of the central post and an encoder rod such that movement occurring in the lift assembly through the central post is equally proportional and concomitant with movement experienced and read by the encoder through the encoder rod. This movement experience and read by the encoder provides a feedback signal confirming the distances for raising lowering lifting and releasing of the center lite to the PLC or central computer.

Once the tilt frame substantially equally raises all four corners A B C and D to a prescribed uniform height via mechanical actuators see the tilt frame unequally raises one or more mechanical actuators and corresponding corners to a desired location to facilitate the movement of the second lite to corner A. In one example embodiment the mechanical actuators are ball screws coupled to a motor having a built in gear reduction. In another example embodiment the actuators associated with corners B and C continue to raise.

As depicted in the perspective view of four rails support the lift assemblies at spacings across the frame that are dictated by the size of the lite. This is further illustrated in . In a center lite of maximum dimensions length and width is supported by all of the plurality of lift assemblies . While illustrates a smaller lite supported by a small number of lift assemblies that are repositioned for supporting the lite.

The rails and lift assemblies are repositioned based on the size of the lite being processed by the PLC . In particular the rails B C and D are linearly actuated back and forth along the y axis in the direction of arrows M by cylinder assembly illustrated in . The cylinder assembly is a double action cylinder that is mechanically connected to rails B C and D. Rail and its associated lift assemblies are actuated back and forth along the y axis in the direction of arrows M by cylinder assembly .

The lift assemblies are organized as a six by four matrix. All six lift assemblies in a given row move back and forth with an associated rail and five of the lift assemblies of a row also move back and forth along the x axis in the direction of the arrows S in . Four cylinder assemblies one per rail linearly actuate and move all five lift assemblies back and forth along the x axis due to the presence of interconnecting linkages coupled to the cylinder assemblies. Air under pressure is routed through tubing to each assembly from valves mounted to a cross piece . A factory air source provides air in the range of 80 100 psi.

Referring again to lift assembly are fixed along the x axis and y axis as the maximum size lite is positioned toward registration point based on the size of this maximum sized lite. For the significantly smaller lite shown in readjustment of the lift assemblies as shown in is achieved by cylinder assemblies based on instructions received from the PLC that identifies the size and or type of IGU being processed. Note the two lift assemblies remain fixed in the x direction but move by virtue of their associated rails in the y direction.

Tilting of two of the corners of the tilt frame in the illustrated embodiment corners B and C by mechanical actuators causes the rails and their associated lift assemblies to be spaced above the surface of the conveyors at different distances in a lateral direction indicated by Arrow M. In addition the tilting of corners toward registration point allows the center lite to gravitationally skate or float in a biased like fashion across the lift assemblies without the lift assemblies ever contacting the planar surface of the center lite. This independent raising and lowering is achieved by universal joint assemblies as illustrated in . In one example embodiment the universal joint assemblies include a ball joint yoke and clevis or trunnion mount assembly.

Because of the tilting of the frame the middle lite slides on a cushion of air toward the side or edge of the frame defined or bounded by the two corners A D. This movement brings an edge of the center lite against a second set of registration stops along peripheral edge see . In addition to gravity and the PLC controlled movement of the lift assemblies shown in in assisting the second lite toward corner A are downwardly extending fingers which contact edges of the lite and are coupled to rodless pneumatic cylinders shown as first and second rakes respectively see that are mounted on the rails A B C of the tilt frame and contact other peripheral edges of the second or center lite. In one example embodiment the rakes are commercially made by Festo Corporation under product numbers DGC 25 2200 G PPV A and DGC 12 1200 G P A the specification sheet being incorporated herein by reference. The rake is positioned on the rails A B C to be able to contact edges of all size lites and moves the lites toward the stops . The rake moves the finger out of the way as the lite is acquired by the assemblies and is then moved into contact with the edge of the lite for moving the suspended lite in the x direction.

The second lite remains suspended once reaching registration point over the corresponding registration point located on the support frame in a position for aligning corners of the middle lite with the first spacer frame and first lite . While the second lite is suspended the tilt frame corners return to a parallel state that is the corners A D are all equally distanced in the z axis direction from the support base and the conveyors C C.

A configuration similar to the depiction then occurs as also illustrated in the process flow in of first outer lite and spacer . That is the first spacer frame is positioned above first lite on the conveyor C. The conveyor C is a so called X Y conveyor since it can move lites and attached spacers in both the X and Y direction. When moving lites in the X direction belts similar to the belts shown in for the conveyors C C are in operative position to contact lites placed onto the conveyors C C by operators at the assembly or topping station. Upon reaching the position of however drive rollers located above the belts that provide motion along the x axis contact the lite and when the drive rollers are energized under the control of the controller collectively work to move the lite and associated frame in the y axis direction. As the rollers move the lite in the y direction the lite engages rollers as illustrated in of the conveyor C not covered by the frame in a region R and controlled rotation of these rollers in this region provides further movement of the lite and its frame in the direction of Arrow T.

Once the lite reaches a position on the conveyor C beneath the tilt frame belts raise to move the spacer frame and first lite longitudinally in the x axis direction until engaging pop up stops see . After reaching the stops the belts drop back down beneath the level of the rollers as further described with respect to . The PLC now reverse rotation of the rollers to drive the lite and spacer longitudinally in the direction show by Arrow L in until the first lite and spacer frame reach a second set of pop up stops and the lower registration point .

In one example embodiment the spacer frame includes a prescribed amount of adhesive that will contact the second lite as it is lowered by the tilt frame at the matching upper and lower registrations point . Now that both first lite spacer and second lite are at equal registration points and corners of the spacer frame are in alignment with the corners of the second lite the mechanical actuators are lowered a prescribed amount based on earlier sensed output from the linear transducer and the second lite is released by the elimination of air pressure to the lift assemblies such that the first layer is formed. The first layer is then advanced from the lift station to the butterfly table for mating with a second layer as described previously.

Many control signals and monitored inputs are coupled to the PLC controller by means of Ethernet communications. A representative controller is commercially available from B R Automation under the designation X20CP1485. As seen in a safety PLC controller is included and this controller monitors signals from sensors primarily used to sense an unsafe conditions such as inappropriate opening of a safety gate detected along the assembly line .

Two voltage distribution boxes distribute high and low voltage power signals to other components depicted in . Control boxes are connected to designated conveyors for controlled actuation of motors that drive IGU components through the assembly line. Additionally two encoders and a linear transducer are coupled by Ethernet connections to monitor positions and movement to confirm and control operation of the assembly line. Additionally a set of valves controllably deliver air to the Bernoulli lift pads .

The invention has been described with a degree of particularity but it is the intent that it includes all modifications and alterations from the disclosed design falling within the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

