---

title: Shielding receptable for battery cells
abstract: A thermally shielded receptacle for a rechargeable battery. The thermally shielded receptacle can include a material having a heat deflection rate of greater than 50 degrees Celsius to contain a catastrophic runaway of one or more of a plurality of individual battery cells. The thermally shielded receptacle can include material sized and shaped to receive the plurality of individual battery cells and separate each of the plurality of individual battery cells from adjacent individual battery cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09583803&OS=09583803&RS=09583803
owner: Enovate Medical LLC
number: 09583803
owner_city: Murfreesboro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140703
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 010 921 filed Jun. 11 2014 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

With an increase of portable equipment transportation and communication markets the battery industry is continually expanding to meet the increasing energy need. Typically batteries can be broadly classified into two categories primary batteries and secondary batteries. A primary battery also known as a disposable battery can be used once until the battery is depleted after which the disposable battery can be replaced with a new battery. A secondary battery also known as a rechargeable battery can be capable of repeated recharging and reuse. Some advantages of rechargeable batteries are that they can be cost effective environmentally friendly and easier to use compared to disposable batteries.

While rechargeable batteries offer a number of advantages over disposable batteries rechargeable batteries also have several drawbacks. Typically battery chemistries used for rechargeable batteries tend to be less stable than battery chemistries used in disposable batteries. The relatively unstable chemistries of rechargeable batteries can require special handling during fabrication. Additionally rechargeable batteries such as lithium ion cell batteries have a higher risk of thermal runaway compared to cells of disposable batteries. Thermal runaway can occur when an internal reaction rate of a battery cell increases beyond a point that heat generated by the cell can be withdrawn causing a further increase in both reaction rate and heat generation of the cell. Heat generated by a thermal runaway can lead to combustion of the battery as well as materials adjacent to the battery. Causes of thermal runaway can include a short circuit within a battery cell improper cell use physical abuse of a cell or battery over charging internal shorts manufacturing defects exposure of the cell to extreme external temperatures non functioning safety systems and so forth.

When a battery experiences a thermal runaway the battery may emit a large quantity of smoke flaming liquid electrolyte and sufficient heat to cause combustion and destruction of materials adjacent to the cell. If a cell experiencing thermal runaway is adjacent to one or more additional cells as can be typical in a battery pack then the thermal runaway event can cause a thermal runaway of multiple cells which in turn can lead to an increase in collateral damage.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

The terms battery cell and or battery cell as used herein can be used interchangeably and can refer to any of a variety of different cell chemistries and configurations. In one embodiment the cell chemistries and configurations can include but are not limited to lithium ion e.g. lithium iron phosphate lithium cobalt oxide other lithium metal oxides etc. lithium ion polymer nickel metal hydride nickel cadmium nickel hydrogen nickel zinc silver zinc or other battery type configuration.

The term battery pack as used herein can refer to multiple individual batteries contained within a single piece housing or multi piece housing and the individual batteries electrically interconnected to achieve a selected energy level and capacity.

Rechargeable batteries are produced in a number of variations. In one example a rechargeable battery can be a lithium ion based battery which has a high energy density and uses a cobalt or nickel cobalt oxide cathode. One disadvantage of rechargeable batteries can be that the rechargeable batteries can create their own internal supply of oxygen when the rechargeable batteries overheat. More specifically for lithium ion based batteries oxygen is liberated from the oxide material of a cathode of a lithium ion based battery at elevated temperatures. In one example the elevated temperatures can have a variety of causes such as an internal short circuit overcharging or other causes. Since oxygen and fuel are both internally available to the lithium ion based battery cells a fire can start within a single battery cell and can be difficult to extinguish with conventional methods. In some cases the fire can continue until all the flammable materials in a battery pack have been exhausted.

There are several schemes to reduce a probability of a thermal runaway of rechargeable batteries. In one embodiment a thermal runaway issue can be reduced or eliminated by developing new cell chemistries and or modifying existing cell chemistries. In one example to reduce a probability of a thermal runaway of rechargeable batteries the batteries and or battery packs can be designed to reduce possible causes of the thermal runaway. In one example the batteries and or battery packs can be designed to reduce battery cells from shorting out during storage and or handling. In another example batteries or battery cells of a battery pack can be properly stored such as by insulating the battery terminals and or designed battery storage containers. Although cell chemistries and cell designs can reduce a probability of a thermal runaway currently cell chemistries and cell designs can only reduce not eliminate a probability of a thermal runaway.

When a cell enters into thermal runaway the cell and or battery pack may no longer be viable. In one embodiment the battery pack can be designed to contain the thermal runaway event of a cell to minimize or eliminate the cell thermal runaway from affecting neighboring cells potentially causing a cascading event of a thermal runaway of multiple cells.

In one embodiment the battery pack can include a thermal runaway detector to determine precursor events that increase a probability of a thermal runaway. In another embodiment the thermal runaway detector can be a temperature measuring device such as a thermal couple attached to each battery cell to detect a thermal runaway of the cell by monitoring an internal temperature of the cell.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer station can include one or more wireless transfer coils to transfer energy and or data with other wireless transfer stations. The wireless transfer coil can include one or more power management modules to control the energy transfers and or data transfers with the other wireless transfer stations.

Examples of a wireless transfer station includes a wireless energy rechargeable battery pack a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into a medical cart a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into an electronic device a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into a piece of furniture a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into a plate mounted to a wall a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into a device such as a medical device or medical equipment and so forth.

In one example the wireless transfer station can be a wireless energy battery pack that can be attached to a device such as a medical cart or medical equipment. The wireless transfer station that transfers energy and or data with the device can also relay the energy and or data with other devices and or wireless transfer stations. These examples are not intended to be limiting. The wireless transfer station can be implemented in a variety of electronic devices and mounting locations.

In one embodiment thermal runaway of a cell in a battery such as the cell shown in can be caused a variety of different abusive operating or charging conditions and or manufacturing defects. Thermal runaway occurs where an amount of heat generated in a cell exceeds an amount of heat that can effectively be withdrawn from the cell. When the heat cannot be effectively withdrawn from the cell a large amount of thermal energy is rapidly released heating the entire cell up to a temperature of 900 degrees Celsius or more and causing formations of localized hot spots that can reach temperatures exceeding 1500 degrees Celsius. Associated with the temperature increase of the thermal runaway gas can also be released causing a pressure within the cell to increase.

Traditionally when multiple cells are stacked together it is difficult to remove heat from cells located in the inner part of the multiple cell stack and this configuration can cause localized cycling of the battery which can lead to premature aging.

In one embodiment a shielding receptacle can be sized and shaped to receive a plurality of individual battery cells as in . In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can include a plurality of cell pockets and a plurality of walls along the exterior of the shielding receptacle as in .

In one embodiment the side walls end walls interior walls and or shielding barriers can divide the interior of the shielding receptacle into the plurality of cell pockets . In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can be formed using injection molding. In one example the shielding receptacle can include fixed cell pockets where the shielding barriers are integrally formed with at least one of the walls and or of the shielding receptacle as a one piece construction. In another embodiment the fixed cell pockets can be integrally formed with two opposing walls or such as two side walls as a one piece construction. In another embodiment the fixed cell pockets all four of the walls and i.e. the two side walls and the two end walls and the interior walls are all a one piece construction.

In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can comprise side walls end walls and or interior walls with insertable shielding barriers inserted between the side walls end walls and or interior walls . In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can comprise side walls end walls and or interior walls with insertable shielding barriers and fixed shielding barriers .

In one embodiment the cell pockets can be substantially circular or spherical in form. In another embodiment the cell pockets can be substantially rectangular in form. In another embodiment each cell pocket can form a substantially liquid proof and or air proof compartment.

In one embodiment the cell pockets can be oriented substantially parallel to the end walls of the shielding receptacle . In another embodiment the cell pockets can be substantially parallel to the side walls of the shielding receptacle . In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can be a polymer such as a high temperature resistant polymer that has a high heat deflection rate and is injection moldable. In one embodiment the shielding receptacle can be a polymer such as a high temperature resistant polymer that has a high heat deflection rate and is injection moldable. shows an assembled view of a shielding receptacle sized and shaped to receive a plurality of individual battery cells as described in . is the same as in all other aspects.

In one embodiment when the metallic lithium plates form on the anode and the cathode becomes an oxidizing agent and loses stability the lithium ion battery can emit warm gasses e.g. heat and cause the lithium ion battery to swell. In another embodiment a battery pack can include a charging module to limit an amount of current during recharging of a battery cell and prevent overcharging the battery cell. In one example when the charging module detects overcharging the charging module can stop the recharging of the battery pack.

In one embodiment one or more rows such as rows or of cell pockets can be located along an exterior wall of the shielding receptacle and one or more rows such as rows can be located between interior walls of the shielding receptacle . In another embodiment a cell pocket and or a shielding barrier can include coolant channels. In another embodiment a cell pocket and or a shielding barrier can include extinguishing materials.

In one embodiment each cell pocket can hold an individual battery cell . In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can also include a plurality of walls along the outer parameter of the shielding receptacle . In another embodiment a battery pack can include one or more shielding receptacles with one or more cell pockets .

In one embodiment a wireless transfer station can be located in the wireless transfer station compartment . In one example a wireless transfer station can include wireless transfer coils such as transmitting coils and or receiving coils which can be coupled to the battery pack or integrated into the battery pack and fully sealed or enclosed. In another embodiment the wireless transfer station can be configured to transfer energy and or data to another battery pack another wireless transfer station and or a device using the wireless transfer coils . In one example the battery pack with the integrated wireless transfer coils can have no physical electrical contact points or physical electrical connection points for charging the battery pack communication information data transfer and or power management control.

One advantage of separating the battery pack into different section or compartments can be to disperse heat generated by components located in each compartment. In one example one or more batteries or battery cells can be baked or prematurely aged when exposed to exterior heat from a battery pack component such as the power management module .

In one embodiment the battery pack can be completely sealed or hermetically sealed. In another embodiment a battery pack can be sealed against water solvents cleaning supplies dust and other particulates by hermetically sealing the battery pack. For example a hermetically sealed battery pack can be airtight e.g. impervious to air and or gas.

In one embodiment the battery pack case can include an injection hole extending from the exterior surface of the battery pack to the inner cavity of the battery pack. In one embodiment the battery pack case can be hermetically sealed by placing the battery energy cells power management module the transmission coil and or the receiving coil in the battery pack case and welding such as ultrasonic welding the battery pack case closed. When the battery pack case is welded closed material such as a liquid or a foam can be injected through the injection hole to the battery pack case to encapsulate the battery energy cells power management module the transmission coils and or the receiving coils in a waterproof material. In another embodiment the battery pack case can be a waterproof housing enclosure. In another embodiment the battery pack case can be hermetically sealed by placing the battery energy cells power management module the transmission coil and or the receiving coil in the battery pack case and using an O ring to seal two or more pieces of the battery together. In another embodiment the battery pack case can be sealed using a silicon over mold gasket around one or more seams of the battery pack case such as exterior seams of the battery pack case.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer station case can include an injection hole extending from the exterior surface of the wireless transfer station case to an inner cavity of the wireless transfer station case . In one embodiment the wireless transfer station case can be hermetically sealed by placing the battery energy cells power management module and or the wireless transfer station as shown in in the wireless transfer station case and welding such as ultrasonic welding the wireless transfer station case closed. When the wireless transfer station case is welded closed material such as a liquid or a foam can be injected into the injection hole of the wireless transfer station case to encapsulate the battery energy cells the power management module and or the wireless transfer station in a waterproof material.

Often rechargeable batteries are used as a replenishable energy source for electronic devices. In one embodiment a battery pack can include one or more rechargeable batteries. In one example the one or more rechargeable batteries can be a lead based battery a lithium based battery a nickel based battery or another type of chemical storage battery. Traditionally a rechargeable battery pack provides energy to an electronic device using physical electrically conductive connections between the rechargeable battery pack and the electronic device. When the traditional rechargeable batteries of the rechargeable battery pack are depleted the rechargeable batteries can be replenished by connecting physical electrically conductive contacts between the rechargeable battery pack and a battery charger.

In one embodiment of the present invention a wireless transfer station can receive energy and or send energy to another device such as another wireless transfer station using a wireless energy transfer scheme e.g. transfer energy without wires . A wireless energy transfer scheme can be any form of wireless energy transfer associated with the use of electric fields magnetic fields electromagnetic fields and so forth that allows electrical energy to be transmitted between two or more wireless transfer elements without using physical electrical contacts. In one example a wireless energy transfer of wireless energy can be a transfer of electrical energy from an energy source to an electrical load without the use of interconnecting wires or physical electrical contacts.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer station can include one or more wireless transfer coils to transfer energy and or data with other wireless transfer stations. The wireless transfer coil can include one or more power management modules to control the energy transfers and or data transfers with the other wireless transfer stations.

Examples of a wireless transfer station includes a wireless energy rechargeable battery pack a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into a medical cart a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into an electronic device a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into a piece of furniture a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into a plate mounted to a wall a wireless energy transfer platform and or data transceiver integrated into a device such as a medical device or medical equipment and so forth.

In one example the wireless transfer station can be a wireless energy battery pack that can be attached to a device such as a medical cart or medical equipment. The wireless transfer station that transfers energy and or data with the device can also relay the energy and or data with other devices and or wireless transfer stations. These examples are not intended to be limiting. The wireless transfer station can be implemented in a variety of electronic devices and mounting locations.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer station can receive data from and or send data or information to another device such as another wireless transfer station using a wireless data transfer scheme. In another embodiment the wireless data transfer scheme can be any form of data transfer associated with a communications network. In another embodiment the communications network can be a cellular network. The cellular network can be configured to operate based on a cellular standard such as the third generation partnership projection 3GPP long term evolution LTE Rel. 8 9 10 11 or 12 standard or the institute of electronic and electrical engineers IEEE 802.16p 802.16n 802.16m 2011 802.16h 2010 802.16j 2009 or 802.16 2009 standard.

In another embodiment the communications network can be a wireless local area network such as a wireless fidelity network Wi Fi that can be configured to operate using a standard such as the IEEE 802.11 2012 IEEE 802.11ac or IEEE 802.11ad standard. In another embodiment the communications network can be configured to operate using a Bluetooth standard such as Bluetooth v1.0 Bluetooth v2.0 Bluetooth v3.0 or Bluetooth v4.0. In another embodiment the communications network can be configured to operate using a ZigBee standard such as the IEEE 802.15.4 2003 ZigBee 2003 IEEE 802.15.4 2006 ZigBee 2006 or IEEE 802.15.4 2007 ZigBee Pro standard. In another embodiment the wireless data transfer scheme can be any form of data transfer associated with electric fields magnetic fields or electromagnetic fields that is transmitted between two or more wireless transfer elements without using physical electrical contacts.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer station can include one or more wireless transfer elements. In one example a wireless transfer element can be a wireless transfer coil. In one embodiment the wireless transfer coil can be a coil used for transmitting and or receiving energy and or data using magnetic inductance and or magnetic resonance.

In one embodiment the transmitting coil can be a transmitting induction coil and the receiving coil can be a receiving induction coil. The wireless transfer station can use a magnetic field to transfer energy between the transmitting coil coupled to a first object such as a wireless transfer station and a receiving coil of a second object such as another wireless transfer station without any direct contact between the transmitting coil and the receiving coil e.g. inductive coupling.

In one embodiment inductive coupling can occur when the transmitting coil creates a magnetic field such as an alternating electromagnetic field using an energy source such as an alternating current AC energy outlet or a direct current DC battery. A current can be induced at the receiving coil using the magnetic field when the receiving coil is located within the magnetic field .

In one example when the transmitting coil and the receiving coil are within a threshold proximity distance the transmitting coil and the receiving coil can couple to form an electric transformer. In one embodiment current from the receiving coil can be transferred to a battery or an electronic device. In another embodiment the current can be stored in one or more energy sources of the wireless transfer station such as a battery. In another embodiment the current can be transferred to a device coupled to the wireless transfer station. In one embodiment an impedance of one or more transmitting coils can be substantially matched with an impedance of one or more receiving coils .

In one embodiment the transmitting coil can be a transmitting resonant coil and the receiving coil can be a receiving resonant coil. A wireless resonant transfer can be a resonant transmission of energy or data between at least one transmitting coil and at least one receiving coil . In another embodiment at least one transmitting coil and at least one receiving coil can be tuned to resonate at a same frequency or a substantially same frequency.

In one example resonant transmission of wireless energy can occur when the transmitting coil and the receiving coil are constructed to resonate at the same frequency or approximately the same frequency. The transmitting coil can be configured to oscillate current at the resonant frequency of the coils to transfer energy and or data. The oscillating current of the transmitting coil can generate an oscillating magnetic field at the selected resonant frequency of the receiving coil. When the receiving coil is positioned adjacent to the oscillating magnetic field and constructed to operate at the same frequency or substantially the same frequency as the transmitting coil the receiving coil can receive energy and or data from the oscillating magnetic field.

In another embodiment an impedance of one or more transmitting coils can be substantially matched with an impedance of one or more receiving coils for energy and or data transfer. In another embodiment the transmitting coil and the receiving coil can be positioned such that the receiving coil is within the near field of the magnetic field of the transmitting coil. The near field can be based within the Fraunhofer region which can be approximately within times the wavelength of the electromagnetic field.

One advantage of placing the receiving coil within the near field for wireless energy transfer is to reduce an amount of energy that may be radiated or leaked from the wireless transfer coils and e.g. energy not received at the receiving coil . In one embodiment energy in a magnetic field falls off as the inverse squared of a distance 1 d between the transmitting coil and the receiving coil within the near field. In one example magnetic resonant coupling can be used to transfer energy at relatively high energy levels between the transmitting coil and the receiving coil and to minimize or reduce energy leaking away from the wireless transfer coils and .

Another advantage of using a near field or a non radiating field for wireless energy transfer can be that the near field or the non radiating field can be used in areas adjacent to biological material such as humans or other biological entities with minimal or no effects to the biological material from the wireless energy transfer. In another embodiment a wireless transfer station such as in can use a radio frequency RF signal ultrasound and or laser beams to wirelessly transfer energy and or data between a transmitting device and a receiving device.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer coil of the wireless transfer station can be used for transmitting wireless energy and or receiving wireless energy. In one example the conversion module can be coupled to the wireless transfer coil and used to switch the wireless transfer coil from a receiving mode i.e. receiving wireless energy and or data to a transmitting mode i.e. transmitting wireless energy and or data or vice versa.

In one embodiment when the conversion module of the wireless transfer station is in the transmitting mode the conversion module or the power management module can convert energy received from an energy source such as a power outlet or a battery at a selected voltage into a high frequency alternating current and transmit the high frequency alternating current to a wireless transfer coil of another wireless transfer station. The high frequency alternating current can flow through one or more loops of the wireless transfer coil and create a varying magnetic field that can induce a current in the other wireless transfer coil. In another embodiment when the conversion module is switched to the receiving mode a varying magnetic field from another wireless transfer station can induce an alternating current flowing through the one or more loops of the wireless transfer coil . The current flowing through the one or more loops can be converted into a direct current DC by the conversion module or the power management module and directed to a battery coupled to the wireless transfer station or a device that is electrically coupled to the wireless transfer station .

In one embodiment each wireless transfer coil of a wireless transfer station can be coupled to a separate conversion module . In another embodiment one or more conversion modules can be coupled to one or more selected groups of wireless transfer coils . One advantage of using a conversion module for switching a wireless transfer coil between transmitting mode and receiving mode can be to reduce a complexity of design and or size of a wireless transfer station by reducing a number of wireless transfer coils used to transmit and or receive wireless energy. Another advantage of using a conversion module for switching a wireless transfer coil between a transmitting mode and receiving mode is to provide a dual functionality to a wireless transfer station of both transmitting and receiving wireless energy.

In one embodiment the power management module can include a current interrupt device CID . In another embodiment the power management module can include a poly switch temperature coefficient PTC that can break a current flow between one or more battery cells the power management module and or the wireless transfer coil when a temperature of the one or more battery cells the power management module and or the wireless transfer coil exceeds a selected threshold.

In one embodiment each battery cell in the wireless transfer station can be connected to the power management module using a current line to monitor a current of each cell and a separate voltage line to monitor a voltage of each cell. In one embodiment the power management module can include chemical fuses to provide permanent circuit interruption for selected events. In one embodiment the chemical fuses can be controlled by the cell monitoring and cutoff circuits. When the chemical fuse is activated the fuse can permanently disable the wireless transfer station and prevent current flow. In one example the selected events can include battery over charge over current or deep discharge conditions. In another embodiment the power management module can include a plurality of chemical fuses in parallel. In another embodiment the wireless transfer station can monitor the charge and discharge vents to determine when to activate the chemical fuse. In one example the wireless transfer station can determine when a discharge vent is open or closed. In one embodiment when a discharge vent is closed when one or more battery cells are receiving current the power management module can activate the chemical fuse.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer coil of the wireless transfer station can be used for transmitting wireless energy and or receiving wireless energy. In one example the conversion module can be coupled to the wireless transfer coil and used to switch the wireless transfer coil from a receiving mode i.e. receiving wireless energy and or data to a transmitting mode i.e. transmitting wireless energy and or data or vice versa.

In one embodiment when the conversion module of the wireless transfer station is in the transmitting mode the conversion module or the power management module can convert voltage received from an energy source such as an energy outlet or a battery into a high frequency alternating current and send the high frequency alternating current to a wireless transfer coil of another wireless transfer station. The high frequency alternating current can flow through one or more loops of the wireless transfer coil and create a magnetic field that can be received by the other wireless transfer coil. In another embodiment when the conversion module is switched to the receiving mode a magnetic field can generate current flowing through the one or more loops of the wireless transfer coil . In another embodiment the current flowing through the one or more loops can be converted into direct current DC by the conversion module or the power management module and directed to a battery coupled to the wireless transfer station or a coupled device to the wireless transfer station .

In one embodiment each wireless transfer coil of a wireless transfer station can be coupled to a separate conversion module . In another embodiment one or more conversion modules can be coupled to one or more selected groups of wireless transfer coils . One advantage of using a conversion module for switching a wireless transfer coil between transmitting mode and receiving mode can be to reduce a complexity of design and or size of a wireless transfer station by reducing a number of wireless transfer coil required to transmit and or receive wireless energy. Another advantage of using a conversion module for switching a wireless transfer coil between a transmitting mode and receiving mode is to provide a dual functionality of a wireless transfer station of both transmitting and receiving wireless energy.

In one embodiment the communication module of the wireless transfer station can use a communications network to communicate the data to a device and or another wireless transfer station. In another embodiment the communications network can be a cellular network that may be a 3GPP LTE Rel. 8 9 10 11 or 12 or IEEE 802.16p 802.16n 802.16m 2011 802.16h 2010 802.16j 2009 802.16 2009. In another embodiment communications network can be a wireless network such as a wireless fidelity network Wi Fi that may follow a standard such as the Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.11 2012 IEEE 802.11ac or IEEE 802.11ad standard. In another embodiment the communications network can be a Bluetooth connection such as Bluetooth v1.0 Bluetooth v2.0 Bluetooth v3.0 or Bluetooth v4.0. In another embodiment the communications network can be a ZigBee connection such as IEEE 802.15.4 2003 ZigBee 2003 IEEE 802.15.4 2006 ZigBee 2006 IEEE 802.15.4 2007 ZigBee Pro .

In one embodiment the wireless transfer station can transfer energy to one or more other wireless transfer stations receive energy from one or more other wireless transfer stations and or communicate data or information with one or more other wireless transfer stations. In another embodiment the coordination module of the wireless transfer station can coordinate when energy is transferred between wireless transfer stations and or when data is communicated between wireless transfer stations. In another embodiment the coordination module can use the communications module to communicate with one or more other wireless transfer stations to coordinate energy and or data transfer between the wireless transfer station and the one or more other wireless transfer stations.

One advantage of transferring energy and or data using a wireless transfer station is to provide a single connection point between the wireless transfer station and other wireless transfer stations and or other devices. Another advantage of transferring energy and or data using the wireless transfer station can be to enable a single step for both transferring energy between the wireless transfer station and other wireless transfer stations and communicate or synchronize data communicated between the wireless transfer station and other wireless transfer stations. In one example when a first wireless transfer station such as a wireless transfer station integrated into a medical cart is located adjacent to a second wireless transfer station such as a wireless transfer station integrated into a plate mounted to a wall or a floor mat the first wireless transfer station can both receive energy from the second wireless transfer station and synchronize information with the second wireless transfer station.

In one embodiment the coordination module can communicate with a conversion module as in to coordinate when one or more wireless transfer coils of the wireless transfer station can transmit and or receive wireless energy and or data. In one example the coordination module communicates with a conversion module as in to coordinate transmitting and or receiving wireless energy and or data by coordinating when one or more wireless transfer coils are in a transmitting mode or a receiving mode as discussed in the preceding paragraphs.

In one embodiment a device or another wireless transfer station can include one or more resonant wireless transfer coils and or one or more induction wireless transfer coils. In one embodiment the device or the other wireless transfer station receiving energy from the wireless transfer station can select whether to receive wireless energy from the one or more resonant wireless transfer coils or the one or more induction wireless transfer coils of the wireless transfer station . In another embodiment the wireless transfer station can be configured to select whether to transmit wireless energy using the one or more resonant wireless transfer coils or the one or more induction wireless transfer coils . In one example a resonant transmitting coil and a resonant receiving coil pair can have a higher energy transfer efficiency than an induction transmitting coil and an induction receiving coil pair. In this example when the device or the other wireless transfer station includes a resonant receiving coil the other wireless transfer station and or the device or the wireless transfer station can be configured to use one or more resonant wireless transfer coils to perform an energy transfer.

In one embodiment the one or more resonant wireless transfer coils and or the one or more induction wireless transfer coils can be transmitting coils and or receiving coils. In another embodiment the wireless transfer station can include one or more repeater coils . In one example the repeater coil can enhance wirelessly transmitted energy of a transmitting coil e.g. providing additional transmission energy. In another example the repeater coil can receive the wireless energy from a transmitting coil and relay or retransmit the received energy to another repeater coil or to a receiving coil. The repeater coils can be configured as inductive repeater coils or resonant repeater coils and associated with transmit coils and receive coils of the same kind.

In one embodiment the one or more resonant wireless transfer coils the one or more induction wireless transfer coils and or the repeater coil can include a power management module configured to covert energy from an energy source to a varying magnetic field. In another embodiment the one or more resonant wireless transfer coils the one or more induction wireless transfer coils and or the repeater coil can be coupled to a power management module configured to convert a magnetic field into energy such as energy at a selected current level a voltage level a wattage level and or an amperage level and transfer the energy to a battery of the wireless transfer station or a device coupled to the wireless transfer station .

In another embodiment the wireless transfer station can transfer the energy received at the wireless transfer coil to the coupled device using physical electrical contacts. In another embodiment the wireless transfer station can transfer the energy to the coupled device using the wireless transfer coil . In one embodiment the wireless transfer station can store received energy at a battery .

In one embodiment a brightness level an illumination level and or the color of the one or more lighting sources integrated into the handle can be adjusted by the wireless transfer station based on selected illumination criteria. In one example the selected illumination criteria can include a time of day a location of the wireless transfer station a type of device that the wireless transfer station is attached to a current energy level of the wireless transfer station when the wireless transfer station is receiving a charge when the wireless transfer station is transferring energy and so forth. In another example the display can be a night light to indicate the location of the wireless transfer station during low light conditions and or provide illuminating light to a surrounding environment during low light conditions.

In one embodiment an optically viewable portion as discussed in the preceding paragraphs of the wireless transfer station can be located at a selected location on the handle with the display located beneath the optically viewable portion. In another embodiment the display can be flush with an exterior surface of the wireless transfer station and can be located at a selected location on the handle .

In one embodiment one or more of the displays of a wireless transfer station can be a liquid crystal display LCD a resistive LCD display a capacitive LCD display a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal on silicon LCOS display an organic LED OLED display an active matrix OLED AMOLED display a touch screen display a haptic display and or a tactile display. In another embodiment the one or more displays can be configured to display one or more colors such as different colors based on the selected energy information.

In one embodiment the battery pack case can provide for outgassing of a battery. In an example of lead acid batteries when a battery is being charged e.g. the battery is under charge a charge current can be greater than the current needed to maintain a full state of charge because of chemical inefficiencies of electrolytes and an internal resistance of battery cells. The level of charge current can create an excess of charged electrolytes in water with an electrolyte mix of sulfuric acid. The charged electrolytes can free hydrogen and oxygen from the water. In one embodiment the battery pack case can outgas the hydrogen and or oxygen from the battery pack case. In one embodiment the battery pack case can include ventilation to emit the free hydrogen and oxygen from the battery to prevent an accumulation of hydrogen and or oxygen. In one embodiment the battery pack case can include one or more internal air gaps to provide internal ventilation for gas released from one or more battery cells. In another embodiment the battery pack case can also include one or more vents to release gas from one or more battery cells or the internal air gaps to the exterior of the battery pack.

In one embodiment the battery pack case can include an escape valve to vent gas. In another embodiment the battery pack case can include a one way valve or disc to release gas or pressure while maintaining a hermetic seal. In another embodiment the battery pack case can include a perforated label to provide for ventilation of gas when an internal pressure of the battery pack case exceeds a selected threshold. In one embodiment the perforated label can be a one way label to restrict fluids from entering the battery pack case and enable moisture to be wicked away or released from the battery pack case. In one embodiment the battery pack can include a moisture detection module configured to detect when moisture within the battery pack case exceeds a selected level. In one embodiment the battery pack case can include a label which includes one or more weakened areas of the label to enable the label to expel gas and or pressure when the internal pressure exceeds a selected threshold while maintaining a hermetic seal.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer station can be a waterproof housing enclosure. In another embodiment the wireless transfer station can be hermetically sealed by placing the battery energy cells a power management module and or the wireless transfer station in the wireless transfer station and using an O ring to seal two or more pieces such as top piece and bottom piece of the wireless transfer station together.

In one embodiment the wireless transfer station is non sealed or non hermetically sealed. In another embodiment as discussed in the preceding paragraphs the wireless transfer station can be sealed to minimize or eliminate the adhesion and or growth of potential pathogens or hazard materials. In another embodiment when a wireless transfer coil is incorporated into the wireless transfer station a need for exposed electrical connectors exposed wires or other unsealed portions of the battery pack can be reduced or eliminated.

One advantage of using a sealed wireless transfer station such as a sealed a battery pack can be to reduce or eliminate the retransmission or spreading of pathogens such as bacterium viruses prion or fungus in a medical environment by minimizing or eliminating crevasses or seams where pathogens can adhere and or grow. In one example when a traditional battery pack and or a device with an attached traditional battery pack is located in an area of a medical facility such as a patient s room and the traditional battery pack is moved to another area of the medical facility such as another patient s room pathogens adhere to surfaces of the traditional battery packs such as at the seams or crevices and or physical electrical contacts of the traditional battery pack. In one embodiment the sealed wireless transfer station can reduce or eliminate the retransmission of pathogens by reducing or eliminating crevices seams and physical electrical contacts of the wireless transfer station. In one embodiment the wireless transfer station can be sealed with an anti bacterial material to reduce or eliminate the adherence of pathogens on the surface of the battery pack. In another embodiment the wireless transfer station can be sealed or encased with waterproof and or dustproof material.

Additionally a traditional battery pack with electrical contacts for receiving and or transferring energy cannot be fully cleaned because an antibacterial cleaning solution can erode the electrical contacts and or leak into the unsealed parts of the traditional battery pack. One advantage of a sealed wireless transfer station with wireless transfer coils for transferring energy and or data can be to enable a user to wash and or clean the sealed wireless transfer station with antibacterial materials such as an antibacterial cleaning solution.

In one embodiment a case of the wireless transfer station can comprise at least in part of one or more antibacterial materials. In one example the antibacterial material can be a plastic such as a polycarbonate plastic with a silver additive integrated into the plastic material. In another embodiment the silver additive can kill bacteria that may adhere to the exterior surface of the wireless transfer station case. In another embodiment the wireless transfer station case can comprise at least in part of ultraviolet UV light resilient material such as a polycarbonate plastic or fiberglass to enable the repeated use of UV light to kill bacteria adhering to the exterior surface of the battery pack case.

Traditional battery packs also have a risk of electrical short circuiting. In one example a traditional battery pack has a negative energy terminal and a positive energy terminal. A conductive object that contacts both the negative energy terminal and the positive energy terminal of the traditional battery pack can cause an electrical short. Another advantage of the wireless transfer station with integrated wireless transfer coils for transferring energy can be a reduction or elimination of the risk of electrical shorting through eliminating physical electrical contacts of the wireless transfer station. In one example the wireless transfer station with integrated wireless transfer coils can transfer energy and or data without using physical terminal contacts and thereby eliminate traditional physical terminal contacts that cause electrical shorts.

In one embodiment the battery pack can include a power management module configured to regulate an amount of energy received at one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells and regulate an amount of energy transferred from one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells to a device. In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can include enclosed containers for one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells . In another embodiment the battery pack housing or the shielding receptacle can further comprise a Kevlar disc to dissipate heat caused by the catastrophic runaway of the one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells a one way perforated label to release pressure caused by the catastrophic runaway of the one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells and repel liquid and dust and a pressure release valve to release pressure from one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells wherein the pressure is caused by the catastrophic runaway of the one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells .

In one embodiment the one way perforated label or the pressure release valve can be configured to release pressure from the shielding receptacle or from the inner cavity of the battery pack housing when the pressure exceeds a selected threshold. In another embodiment the battery pack housing or the shielding receptacle can further comprise a one way vent configured to release pressure from the shielding receptacle or from the inner cavity of the battery pack housing when the pressure exceeds a selected threshold. In another embodiment the battery pack can further comprise a liquid cooling system to manage an internal temperature of the battery pack an internal temperature of the shielding receptacle a temperature of one or more battery cells of the plurality of individual battery cells or the power management module . In another embodiment the battery pack can further comprise a temperature sensor configured to monitor an internal temperature of the battery pack an internal temperature of the shielding receptacle or a temperature of one or more battery cells of the plurality of individual battery cells and provide an indication of an increase in the internal temperature of the battery pack an internal temperature of the shielding receptacle or a temperature of one or more battery cells of the plurality of individual battery cells when the increase exceeds a selected threshold.

In another embodiment the battery pack can further comprise a thermal runaway detector to detect a thermal runaway of one or more battery cells of the plurality of individual battery cells and a current interrupt device CID a chemical fuse or polymeric positive temperature coefficient PPTC device to interrupt a current provided to the one or more battery cells of the plurality of individual battery cells . In another embodiment the battery pack housing can further comprise a substantially flat surface wherein the one or more wireless transfer coils are attached to the substantially flat surface or integrated into the substantially flat surface and the substantially flat surface of the battery pack housing can be configured to abut a substantially flat surface of a wireless transfer station.

In one embodiment the battery pack can further comprise an energy module configured to wirelessly receive alternating current AC energy from the wireless transfer station convert the AC energy to direct current DC energy and transfer a selected amount of the DC energy to one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells . In another embodiment the battery pack can further comprise a power management bay located within the inner cavity of the battery pack housing and at a location separate from the battery pack bay and comprise a power management module to regulate energy transferred between one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells and a wireless transfer station or a device. In another embodiment the battery pack can further comprise one or more connecting links between the power management module and one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells and wherein the power management module can be configured to use the one or more connecting links to monitor a charging of the one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells . In one example the one or more connecting links can be one or more wires or cables.

In one embodiment the hermetically sealed battery pack can further comprise a pressure seal configured to release pressure from the battery pack housing when the pressure exceeds a selected threshold. In another embodiment the battery pack housing or the components in the battery pack housing are sealed using an injection material wherein the injection material is injected into the battery pack housing or one or more gaskets around one or more seams of the battery pack housing . In another embodiment the battery pack housing can further comprise anti bacterial material to decrease or eliminate a growth or adhesion of pathogens on the battery pack housing . In another embodiment the anti bacterial and chemical resistive material can be a polycarbonate plastic with a silver anti bacterial additive. In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can further comprise a cavity or recess configured to receive a portion of one or more battery cells of the plurality of individual battery cells as the one or more battery cells expand or swell. In another embodiment the shielding receptacle can further comprise a flexible material or an expanding material configured to expand as one or more battery cells of the plurality of individual battery cells expand or swell.

In one embodiment the thermally shielded receptacle can further comprise a layer of heat deflecting material coating an inner surface of one or more of the shielding receptacles . In another embodiment the thermally shielded receptacle can further comprise a thermally conductive material or a phase changing material to absorb heat of greater than 50 degrees Celsius caused by a catastrophic runaway of one or more of the plurality of individual battery cells . In another embodiment the thermally shielded receptacle can further comprise a heat shield. In another embodiment the thermally shielded receptacle can further comprise a plurality of shielding receptacles having a honeycomb structure. In another embodiment a section of the plurality of shielding receptacles can be offset from another section of the plurality of shielding receptacles in the honeycomb structure of the thermally shielded receptacle .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device can include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements can be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station can also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the various techniques described herein can use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module can be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module can also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules can also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and can even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data can be identified and illustrated herein within modules and can be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data can be collected as a single data set or can be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and can exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules can be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials can be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention can be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics can be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

