---

title: Personnel authentication and tracking system
abstract: Disclosed are techniques to authenticate tags passing through detection regions against an access control list, receive data that identifies a number of people passing through or within the detection regions, compare the number people identified by the received data with the number of tags identified by the system, and cause an alarm to be asserted when a discrepancy is detected in the number people identified with the number of tags in a detection region with personnel within the detection region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09513364&OS=09513364&RS=09513364
owner: Tyco Fire & Security GmbH
number: 09513364
owner_city: Neuhausen am Rheinfall
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20140820
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to provisional U.S. Patent Application 61 973 962 filed on Apr. 2 2014 entitled Wireless Sensor Network the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Wireless sensor network wireless device based data collection systems with remote server based monitoring and report generation are becoming more common in applications such as home safety monitoring electrical and water utility meter monitoring and human and asset tracking. For example it is common for businesses and homeowners to have a security system for detecting alarm conditions at their premises and signaling the conditions to a monitoring station or to authorized users of the security system.

Traditional access control systems provide a valuable perimeter protection function to prevent unauthorized access to buildings or secured areas within buildings. An example of a traditional building system with separate systems for fire surveillance and access control has people counting analytics to detect tailgating.

According to an aspect a system includes a processor and memory with the system configured to authenticate tags passing through detection regions against an access control list receive data that identifies a number of people passing through or within the detection regions compare the number people identified by the received data with the number of tags identified by the system and cause an alarm to be asserted when a discrepancy is detected in the number people identified with the number of tags in a detection region with personnel within the detection region.

While traditional access control systems provide a valuable perimeter protection function to prevent unauthorized access to buildings or secured areas within buildings such systems have shortcomings to provide real time information about the locations of people within the building particularly in emergency situations. Often during evacuations access control is often disabled and doors are unlocked to facilitate the movement of people out of the buildings. This presents a number of problems for security managers. Employees need to manually check in at assembly areas in order to account for all people and to ensure that everyone got out. If an employee does not show up at an evacuation point the manager might assume that he is still in the building when in reality he may be somewhere else out of the office on travel or at a doctor s appointment . This uncertainty can delay a search for the missing employee or potentially put emergency responders into harms way looking for someone who is not inside. During emergencies access control systems are often disabled to allow for people to move freely to get out of the building or to assist others to evacuate which produces a security hole for facilities allowing people access to secure areas during an evacuation. Another shortcoming of traditional access control systems is that they focus primarily on perimeter protection and provide little intrusion detection once a person has penetrated the perimeter of a building or secured area.

In a typical installation with an access control system the building surveillance system and the fire system are separate. In these traditional systems an intruder can often evade the access control protection by tailgating behind an authorized person. Security managers have tried to protect against this by implementing tailgating detection systems at the doorways that associate the number of credentials that are presented with the number of people passing through the entrance.

However technologies used to count people typically have less than complete accuracy that maybe only about 95 at a doorway. Therefore the number of false alarms would typically be about 5 . People counting systems can be deployed that have higher accuracy but the cost of installing these systems to reliably prevent tailgating without high false alarms is usually too high for many applications.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention is apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Described herein are examples of network features that may be used in various contexts including but not limited to security intrusion and alarm systems. Example security systems may include an intrusion detection panel that is electrically or wirelessly connected to a variety of sensors. Those sensors types may include motion detectors cameras and proximity sensors used e.g. to determine whether a door or window has been opened . Typically such systems receive a relatively simple signal electrically open or closed from one or more of these sensors to indicate that a particular condition being monitored has changed or become unsecure.

For example typical intrusion systems can be set up to monitor entry doors in a building. When a door is secured a proximity sensor senses a magnetic contact and produces an electrically closed circuit. When the door is opened the proximity sensor opens the circuit and sends a signal to the panel indicating that an alarm condition has occurred e.g. an opened entry door .

Data collection systems are becoming more common in some applications such as home safety monitoring. Data collection systems employ wireless sensor networks and wireless devices and may include remote server based monitoring and report generation. As described in more detail below wireless sensor networks generally use a combination of wired and wireless links between computing devices with wireless links usually used for the lowest level connections e.g. end node device to hub gateway . In an example network the edge wirelessly connected tier of the network is comprised of resource constrained devices with specific functions. These devices may have a small to moderate amount of processing power and memory and may be battery powered thus requiring that they conserve energy by spending much of their time in sleep mode. A typical model is one where the edge devices generally form a single wireless network in which each end node communicates directly with its parent node in a hub and spoke style architecture. The parent node may be e.g. an access point on a gateway or a sub coordinator which is in turn connected to the access point or another sub coordinator.

Described is a solution that in addition to the traditional perimeter defense mechanisms provided by access control systems also performs functions that includes monitoring the locations of authorized personnel within a building or secure area providing real time monitoring during an evacuation or emergency so that security personnel can determine the location of missing people and provide detection of unauthorized people within a building or area.

Referring now to an exemplary global distributed network topology for a Wireless Sensor Network WSN is shown. In the distributed network is logically divided into a set of tiers or hierarchical levels . In an upper tier or hierarchical level of the network are disposed servers and or virtual servers running a cloud computing paradigm that are networked together using well established networking technology such as Internet protocols or which can be private networks that use none or part of the Internet. Applications that run on those servers communicate using various protocols such as for Web Internet networks XML SOAP RESTful web service and other application layer technologies such as HTTP and ATOM. The distributed network has direct links between devices nodes as shown and discussed below.

The distributed network includes a second logically divided tier or hierarchical level referred to here as a middle tier that involves gateways located at central convenient places inside individual buildings and structures. These gateways communicate with servers in the upper tier whether the servers are stand alone dedicated servers and or cloud based servers running cloud applications using web programming techniques. The middle tier gateways are also shown with both local area network e.g. Ethernet or 802.11 and cellular network interfaces

The distributed network topology also includes a lower tier edge layer set of devices that involve fully functional sensor nodes e.g. sensor nodes that include wireless devices e.g. transceivers or at least transmitters which in are marked in with an F as well as constrained wireless sensor nodes or sensor end nodes marked in the with C . In some embodiments wired sensors not shown can be included in aspects of the distributed network .

Constrained computing devices as used herein are devices with substantially less persistent and volatile memory other computing devices sensors in a detection system. Currently examples of constrained devices would be those with less than about a megabyte of flash persistent memory and less than 10 20 kbytes of RAM volatile memory . These constrained devices are configured in this manner generally due to cost physical configuration considerations.

In a typical network the edge wirelessly connected tier of the network is comprised of highly resource constrained devices with specific functions. These devices have a small to moderate amount of processing power and memory and often are battery powered thus requiring that they conserve energy by spending much of their time in sleep mode. A typical model is one where the edge devices generally form a single wireless network in which each end node communicates directly with its parent node in a hub and spoke style architecture. The parent node may be e.g. an access point on a gateway or a sub coordinator which is in turn connected to the access point or another sub coordinator.

Each gateway is equipped with an access point fully functional node or F node that is physically attached to that access point and that provides a wireless connection point to other nodes in the wireless network. The links illustrated by lines not numbered shown in represent direct single hop network layer connections between devices. A formal networking layer that functions in each of the three tiers shown in uses a series of these direct links together with routing devices to send messages fragmented or non fragmented from one device to another over the network.

The WSN implements a state machine approach to an application layer that runs on the lower tier devices and . Discussed below is an example of a particular implementation of such an approach. States in the state machine are comprised of sets of functions that execute in coordination and these functions can be individually deleted or substituted or added to in order to alter the states in the state machine of a particular lower tier device.

The WSN state function based application layer uses an edge device operating system not shown but such as disclosed in the above mentioned provisional application that allows for loading and execution of individual functions after the booting of the device without rebooting the device so called dynamic programming . In other implementations edge devices could use other operating systems provided such systems allow for loading and execution of individual functions after the booting of the device preferable without rebooting of the edge devices.

In some implementations the distributed network described above has nodes that provide video data and sensed credential data. The credentials or badges use technologies such as RFID Bluetooth low energy BLE etc. with video. Sensors such as some of the nodes in sense the presence of a credential tag typically carried by an individual passing through a range of the sensor. These sensors receive signals from badge tag devices that incorporate circuitry operative using radio frequency identification RFID Bluetooth low energy peer to peer devices etc. Video information is received from cameras and other image capture devices that are disposed throughout the premises e.g. as nodes on the network . One or more algorithms are applied to detect the presence of non credentialed individuals etc. Various ones of the nodes in can receive from servers of or other systems updates to functions not shown that are performed at these nodes.

Recognition software can be used to discriminate between objects that are a human and objects that are an animal further facial recognition software can be built into video cameras. Such video cameras would comprise a processor and memory and the recognition software to process inputs captured images by the camera and produce data to convey information regarding recognition or lack of recognition of an individual captured by the video camera. The processing could also alternatively or in addition include information regarding characteristic of the individual in the area captured monitored by the video camera.

Referring now to a personnel authentication and tracking system is shown. The personnel authentication and tracking system includes a personnel authentication control system and at least one and generally a plurality personnel authentication and tracking appliances that detect presence of tags and authenticate the tags and send data regarding the detection and authentication to the personnel authentication control system . In an implementation involving the WSN of one or more of the servers therein could be the personnel authentication control system .

The personnel authentication and tracking appliances are fixed e.g. in physical locations in e.g. a building or a site at internal and external locations and read tags and or other credentials within respective assigned detection zones . Each of the personnel authentication and tracking appliances produce counts and maintain counts of the number of people with credentialed badges in the respective detection zones . These counts are periodically and preferably continuously updated and maintained as people come and go through the detection zone assigned to the respective appliance . The personnel authentication and tracking appliances optionally may be combined within other electronic devices installed as part of the fire and securing infrastructure of the building.

The personnel authentication and tracking system also includes personnel authentication and tracking tags e.g. a portable access control token devices carried by individuals that include access control credentials credentialed badges discussed above which are required to gain access to a facility via a traditional perimeter security system. The personnel authentication and tracking tags also include electronics for authentication and tracking via the personnel authentication and tracking system as will be further discussed below.

In in one potential implementation of the personnel authentication and tracking system the personnel authentication and tracking appliances e.g. is shown combined with a speaker and light to convey instructions and to provide emergency lighting over a detection area .

In another potential implementation of the personnel authentication and tracking system has personnel authentication and a tracking appliance e.g. appliance combined with a fire system notification appliance e.g. a fire detector device to monitor a detection region . This implementation uses backup power provided by existing fire detection networks which typically is more likely to be available during an emergency that normal building power.

Referring now to personnel authentication and tracking tags for example tag in addition to conventional perimeter access control token also includes access control token personal authentication circuitry including personnel communication processing a processor and memory as well as an antenna as part of a wireless link to link the tag to appliances. The conventional perimeter access control token is optional and allows access through existing legacy systems. The access control token personal authentication circuitry operates with the personnel authentication and tracking appliances in the system that executes various algorithms as discussed below.

Referring now to the circuitry for the personnel authentication and tracking appliances e.g. includes an authentication tag reader a processor and memory as well as an antenna as part of the wireless link to link the appliances to tags and or the appliances to the server . The personnel authentication and tracking appliance also includes control token personal authentication communication processing . The processor and memory are configured for video processing and analytics . The personnel authentication and tracking appliances also receives images from cameras and in some implementations can include cameras used for taking images and for counting people in the images though feature recognition programming. The personnel authentication and tracking appliance also includes power management and storage . Power can be provided on board or via a backup system such as the fire detection system mentioned above.

In some implementations for analytic processing the personnel authentication and tracking appliances e.g. includes the processor and memory and antenna and thus can be one of the nodes on the sensor network of . The personnel authentication and tracking appliances processor and memory can receive various algorithms to process data whether authentication tracking or video data from the sensor network via antenna and RF circuitry.

Referring now to the personnel authentication and tracking processor and memory are configured to authenticate tags passing through detection regions around and within a building. The authentication process includes comparing such tags to an access control list that is stored on the personal authentication system and or within a particular one of the personnel authentication and tracking appliances . The access control list stores a set of tags corresponding to authorized persons and also stores data that delineates those areas in which the authorized users of such tags are authorized to have access. The personnel authentication and tracking processor raises an alarm if a tag is detected in an unauthorized area.

The personnel authentication and tracking processor compares the number people identified using the people counting component of the system with the number of tags identified by the system and raises an alarm if the number of people counted exceeds the number of tags counted indicating that a person is present that does not have a tag . The system in some instances is programmed to only raise an alert after this condition has been detected in more than 1 detection zone or at different times within a single detection zone to reduce the risk of false alarms due to inaccuracies in the people counting system or the failure to read tags.

The personnel authentication and tracking processor also compares the location of personnel within the building against predefined rules to ensure that defined procedures are being followed. Procedures are implementation specific. For instance one procedure can be with regard to a cleaning crew. One procedure is to ensure that a cleaning crew visits all areas of the building. Another procedure is to ensure that a guard is completing the guard tour of all areas. Other procedures are possible. If a procedure is not followed a report and or an alarm is generated depending on the procedure.

In another procedure the personnel authentication and tracking processor determines if safety procedures are being followed and communications exceptions based on a set of predefined business rules such as making sure that at least 1 person trained in CPR is present on site.

Referring now to during an emergency the system executes various algorithms that provide information about the status of an ongoing evacuation. Various algorithms that provide various functions are executed. For example personnel authentication and tracking appliances covering detection zones in various points throughout the building produce graphical or visual descriptions of paths taken by of people associated with tags as they traverse though and are exiting the building.

The processor either in the system or any of the personnel authentication and tracking appliances periodically in some implementations continuously gathers tag information from various tags throughout the premises. This tag information is correlated with the access control list and as each tag passes past the personnel authentication and tracking appliances the known location of that personnel authentication and tracking appliance can be used to determine a point in a path taken by the tag i.e. individual carrying the tag .

For example for personnel authentication and tracking appliances if a tag worn by a person is detected first at personnel authentication and tracking appliance then at personnel authentication and tracking appliance then at personnel authentication and tracking appliances and then personnel authentication and tracking appliances the processor produces a path taken by the tag from detection zones associated with the corresponding ones of the personnel authentication and tracking appliances i.e. appliances and . With personnel authentication and tracking appliances having known fixed physical locations within a building and or site the processor can determine the path taken by the tag. This process can be on going for each tag in a building until that tag is retired by being verified as leaving the building.

The processor renders a map on e.g. a display device of a schematic of the building or a floor in the building and can depict a path or a series of paths taken by each of the people wearing the tags. During an emergency such as an incident with an armed intruder the system can show the location of any person without a tag by correlating personnel authentication and tracking appliances and or the system video information with the tag information. The system can send video information from cameras to emergency responders and security managers.

During a fire the system will continue to operate on the power supplied by the fire panel and can provide status of fire fighters also provided with Personnel Authentication and Tracking Tags moving through detection zones in the building. During a fire or other emergency response the system can collect information from other emergency equipment moving inside the detection zones such as telemetry information about the emergency responders vital signs the amount of air available in the their air packs etc. The processor produces reports and or visual representation of any of these functions at any time.

Referring now to a potential deployment of Personnel authentication and tracking system appliances around a site specifically showing their placement at external entrances internal traffic areas and secures areas is shown. In general a specific deployment would be implementation and site specific. However certain guidelines could be followed. For example Personnel authentication and tracking system appliances would be deployed at external entrances exits so that paths produced for each of the tags can show a tag entering and or exiting the building. Personnel authentication and tracking system appliances would also be deployed in internal traffic areas in arrangements that can be used to show continuous paths of tags and especially in large structures divided into many rooms on many floors sufficient ones of the Personnel authentication and tracking system appliances would be deployed so as to minimize holes in tracking of badges in interior rooms. In addition the Personnel authentication and tracking system appliances could be deployed all secures areas. Numerous other configurations are possible.

The sensors provide in addition to an indication that something is detected in an area within the range of the sensors detailed additional information that can be used to evaluate what that indication may be without the intrusion detection panel being required to perform extensive analysis of inputs to the particular sensor.

For example a motion detector could be configured to analyze the heat signature of a warm body moving in a room to determine if the body is that of a human or a pet. Results of that analysis would be a message or data that conveys information about the body detected. Various sensors thus are used to sense sound motion vibration pressure heat images and so forth in an appropriate combination to detect a true or verified alarm condition at the intrusion detection panel.

Recognition software can be used to discriminate between objects that are a human and objects that are an animal further facial recognition software can be built into video cameras and used to verify that the perimeter intrusion was the result of a recognized authorized individual. Such video cameras would comprise a processor and memory and the recognition software to process inputs captured images by the camera and produce the metadata to convey information regarding recognition or lack of recognition of an individual captured by the video camera. The processing could also alternatively or in addition include information regarding characteristic of the individual in the area captured monitored by the video camera. Thus depending on the circumstances the information would be either metadata received from enhanced motion detectors and video cameras that performed enhanced analysis on inputs to the sensor that gives characteristics of the perimeter intrusion or a metadata resulting from very complex processing that seeks to establish recognition of the object.

Sensor devices can integrate multiple sensors to generate more complex outputs so that the intrusion detection panel can utilize its processing capabilities to execute algorithms that analyze the environment by building virtual images or signatures of the environment to make an intelligent decision about the validity of a breach.

Memory stores program instructions and data used by the processor of the intrusion detection panel. The memory may be a suitable combination of random access memory and read only memory and may host suitable program instructions e.g. firmware or operating software and configuration and operating data and may be organized as a file system or otherwise. The stored program instruction may include one or more authentication processes for authenticating one or more users. The program instructions stored in the memory of the panel may further store software components allowing network communications and establishment of connections to the data network. The software components may for example include an internet protocol IP stack as well as driver components for the various interfaces including the interfaces and the keypad. Other software components suitable for establishing a connection and communicating across network will be apparent to those of ordinary skill.

Program instructions stored in the memory along with configuration data may control overall operation of the panel.

The monitoring server includes one or more processing devices e.g. microprocessors a network interface and a memory all not illustrated . The monitoring server may physically take the form of a rack mounted card and may be in communication with one or more operator terminals not shown . An example monitoring server is a SURGARD SG System III Virtual or similar system.

The processor of each monitoring server acts as a controller for each monitoring server and is in communication with and controls overall operation of each server. The processor may include or be in communication with the memory that stores processor executable instructions controlling the overall operation of the monitoring server. Suitable software enable each monitoring server to receive alarms and cause appropriate actions to occur. Software may include a suitable Internet protocol IP stack and applications clients.

Each monitoring server of the central monitoring station may be associated with an IP address and port s by which it communicates with the control panels and or the user devices to handle alarm events etc. The monitoring server address may be static and thus always identify a particular one of monitoring server to the intrusion detection panels. Alternatively dynamic addresses could be used and associated with static domain names resolved through a domain name service.

The network interface card interfaces with the network to receive incoming signals and may for example take the form of an Ethernet network interface card NIC . The servers may be computers thin clients or the like to which received data representative of an alarm event is passed for handling by human operators. The monitoring station may further include or have access to a subscriber database that includes a database under control of a database engine. The database may contain entries corresponding to the various subscriber devices processes to panels like the panel that are serviced by the monitoring station.

All or part of the processes described herein and their various modifications hereinafter referred to as the processes can be implemented at least in part via a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in one or more tangible physical hardware storage devices that are computer and or machine readable storage devices for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a network.

Actions associated with implementing the processes can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform the functions of the calibration process. All or part of the processes can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array and or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only storage area or a random access storage area or both. Elements of a computer including a server include one or more processors for executing instructions and one or more storage area devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more machine readable storage media such as mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks.

Tangible physical hardware storage devices that are suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile storage including by way of example semiconductor storage area devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash storage area devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks and volatile computer memory e.g. RAM such as static and dynamic RAM as well as erasable memory e.g. flash memory.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other actions may be provided or actions may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Likewise actions depicted in the figures may be performed by different entities or consolidated.

Elements of different embodiments described herein may be combined to form other embodiments not specifically set forth above. Elements may be left out of the processes computer programs Web pages etc. described herein without adversely affecting their operation. Furthermore various separate elements may be combined into one or more individual elements to perform the functions described herein.

Other implementations not specifically described herein are also within the scope of the following claims.

