---

title: Power steering system incorporating double wave spring with insulating intermediate layer
abstract: The invention relates to a power steering system, in particular for a motor vehicle, comprising a servomotor which drives an axially movable component via a nut mounted in a bearing in a rotatable manner in a frame. The nut is engaged with a threaded spindle formed on the component and is supported axially by the bearing in an elastic manner relative to the frame by means of elastic elements and radially on the frame along a narrow circumferential contact surface. Each wave spring assembly has at least two elements, at least one element of which is a wave spring, and an elastic intermediate layer is arranged between each of the at least two elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09409594&OS=09409594&RS=09409594
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA AG
number: 09409594
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20140401
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Entry of International Patent Application Serial Number PCT EP2014 056510 filed Apr. 1 2014 which claims priority to German patent application no. DE 102013006432.5 filed Apr. 15 2013 the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a power steering system especially for a motor vehicle having a servomotor that drives an axially movable component via a nut which nut is rotatably mounted in a bearing disposed in a frame but which nut is not axially movable.

In steering systems with an electric motor servo drive acting via a ball screw drive the ball nut is either mounted rotatably and axially rigidly in the housing or the ball nut allows a certain lengthwise and tilting movement thanks to the use of spring elements and special design of the housing or the bearing. A spherical bearing in which both the bearing ring and the frame have a spherical surface is likewise known. In this design the midpoint of the ball surface is designed to lie in the center plane of the bearing. Similar functions are made possible by spherical roller bearings and self aligning roller bearings which tolerate an angular error of the shaft. The goal of these bearings is to even out the tolerance thereby preventing stresses in the ball screw drive. Moreover the dynamic and static loading of the structural parts is reduced. The result is improved acoustical properties and reduction in mechanical looseness caused by thermal expansion of the components.

In the described bearing the problem occurs between the spherical surfaces just as when using spherical roller bearings and self aligning roller bearings that these bearings are more designed for radial forces. But the loads occurring on the ball nut in an electrically assisted steering drive are primarily axially oriented in regard to the steering rack or threaded spindle.

DE 103 10 492 A1 describes a power steering system especially for motor vehicles with a servomotor formed as an electric motor which drives an axially movable component configured as a push rod via a nut which is able to rotate in a frame formed as a steering housing but unable to move axially. The servomotor the push rod and the nut are mounted by means of an eccentric bearing ring such that the axial distance between the motor shaft of the servomotor and the push rod is variable which allows for a quick and easy installation of the power steering system.

An electrical steering device is known from DE 102 02 483 A1 having a toothed rack connected to a steering spindle a motor to assist a steering force with a rotor arranged coaxially on the toothed rack a spindle drive in which balls are inserted between a nut keyed to the rotor and a screw formed on the toothed rack and having a housing which is approximately cylindrical as a whole. The nut of the ball screw mechanism is mounted rotatably in a bearing inside the nut housing section.

DE 1947337 U presents an elastic roller bearing which has an axial mobility and an axial spring action with restoring force. A roller bearing with an outer race and an inner race the outer race and or the inner race each being arranged between at least one dampening element is known from DE 10 2004 034 701 A1.

EP 1 571 067 A1 discloses the elastic bearing of a worm shaft which coaxially encircles the motor shaft of a servomotor.

The relevant prior art EP 2 049 383 81 shows a solution for enabling or improving the swiveling of a radial bearing. A convex bulge is provided on the outer circumference of the outer race or the nut on which the inner race sits is provided with a convex bulge. Thanks to the convex bulge of the outer circumference of the outer race or that of the nut a releasing of the radial bearing and a swiveling of the nut and the axially movable component is achieved. At each end face of the radial bearing there is provided a steel ring on which is vulcanized an element with elastomer properties making possible an axial and radial dampening as well as a pass through and dampening of the swiveling movement of the axially movable component under alternating loads. When the axially movable component is subjected to bending torque a seizing of the system should be prevented. The fabrication of the elements used and the installation of the elements are time consuming. Furthermore a desirable dampening of the bearing with low installation height is not disclosed in the prior art.

A plate spring arrangement is known from DE 10 2009 019 856 A1 in which at least two coated plate springs form a plate stack and an elastic intermediate layer is arranged between the coated plate springs enabling a relative movement of the two plate springs separated by the intermediate layer thanks to shear action. The parallel coupling of the springs can accomplish a force boosting the springs being preferably elastically coupled and free of friction.

An object of the present disclosure is to provide a power steering system having a ball nut with a tiltable bearing and which system can be realized with more simple components is easy to install and whose dampening of the bearing has a large dampening with low installation height.

A power steering system for a motor vehicle is disclosed herein. The steering system includes a servomotor which drives an axially movable component via a nut mounted in a bearing in a rotatable manner in a frame. The nut is engaged with a threaded spindle formed on the component and is supported axially by the bearing in an elastic manner relative to the frame by means of elastic elements and radially on the frame along a narrow circumferential contact surface. Each wave spring assembly has at least two elements at least one of which is a wave spring and an elastic intermediate layer disposed between each of the at least two elements. An axial equalizing movement of the ball nut under load is made possible as is a tilting of the ball nut each time within structurally defined limits. Moreover the mentioned movements are dampened by the intermediate layer since this absorbs energy. Finally at the end of the deformation path of the wave springs an end stop dampening is achieved since the metallic wave spring cannot directly strike against the frame or the associated thrust washer but instead against the intermediate layer.

If a thrust washer is installed each time between the wave spring assemblies and the frame the material of the wave spring assembly does not need to be adapted to the material of the frame. An especially good spring action results when the wave spring assemblies are arranged each time between an outer race of the bearing and a collar of the frame.

An easy installation of the overall steering gear is made possible when the frame comprises a housing and a housing cover wherein one of the collars is formed on the housing cover and the other collar is formed on the housing or on a sleeve which can be inserted into the housing.

The free movement of the bearing with respect to a tilting movement under load is improved when the sleeve also has a bearing seat in addition to the collar which holds the outer race of the bearing against an outer circumferential surface and or when the bearing seat forms with the outer race a bearing surface which is more narrow in the axial direction of the arrangement than the outer race itself. In an especially simple embodiment the bearing surface can be configured as an encircling rib. But it can also be provided that the bearing surface is linear as part of a convex surface of the bearing seat facing inward to the bearing.

Advantageously the wave spring assemblies each have two wave springs while an elastic intermediate layer is arranged between the two wave springs. The assembly is advantageously configured as a single piece.

It can also be provided that the wave spring assemblies each have a wave spring and a ring an elastic intermediate layer being arranged between the wave spring and the ring and the wave spring bearing against the ring at its low points. Especially good dampening properties result when the wave spring has at least one radially continuous cutout at its low points.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure will be explained in further detail below with reference to the attached drawing figures.

The ball nut moreover carries an intermediate sleeve on which a belt pulley of a toothed belt drive is secured firmly against twisting. In the context of the present invention the receiving of the outer bearing race in the bearing seat and especially the bracing in the axial direction of the longitudinal axis A is important. This shall be described more closely below.

The outer bearing race as is customary with roller bearings is provided with an outer circumferential surface a first end face and a second end face . Against the first end face there bears a wave spring assembly which is braced against a thrust washer . The second end face is braced accordingly against a wave spring assembly which in turn is braced in the axial direction of the longitudinal axis A against a thrust washer . The wave spring assemblies and each have two wave springs between which is arranged an elastic intermediate layer . The wave springs are ring shaped springs having a roughly identical radius preferably coinciding with the radius of the outer bearing race . The wave springs are not flat but rather have a wavelike shape in side view per . This wavelike shape allows the wave springs to compress in the axial direction between the outer bearing race and the thrust washers and . In this process an elastic deformation occurs which is reversible and in the resting state positions the outer bearing race in the middle between the thrust washers and as shown in . The wave spring assemblies and are thus components which are not destroyed by heavy loading in the axial direction. Thanks to the elastic intermediate layer which is preferably a rubber based elastomer or a viscoelastic substance a relative motion of the wave springs separated by the intermediate layer is made possible through shear action. This shear action in addition to the coupled elastic elements produces a dampening of the applied force in the axial direction. The thrust washers and are steel rings preferably being hardened steel. These steel rings are suitable to absorbing the slight movement of the wave spring assemblies and during operation without the wave springs likewise made of hard material working themselves into the thrust washers and . The thrust washers and are therefore used to special advantage when the frame here the steering housing and the housing cover is made from a light metal alloy or a similar relatively soft material.

The design depicted has the thrust washer bearing directly against an end face of the steering housing . The second thrust washer bears accordingly against a collar of the housing cover which in the installed state lies opposite the end face at a spacing. In the radial direction the outer bearing race thrusts with its outer circumferential surface against a web formed circumferentially in the bearing seat . The web forms with the outer bearing race a narrow annular encircling bearing surface enabling a tilting of the outer bearing race with respect to the bearing seat to a slight extent.

Finally the inner bearing race is secured in its bearing seat by a threaded nut which is screwed onto a corresponding thread of the nut .

For the installation at first the assembly is mounted being firm against rotation with the nut . This assembly comprises the sleeve and the belt pulley as well as the bearing . This assembly is then assembled with the wave spring assembly and the thrust washer and inserted into the steering housing until the thrust washer lies against the end face of the steering housing . The threaded spindle can be spindled into the nut before or after this assembly process. After this the wave spring assembly and the thrust washer are placed on the bearing outer race and the housing cover is set in place and fastened to the housing in a flange region not shown.

In operation an electric servomotor can now place the belt pulley and thus the nut in rotation via a toothed belt drive so that the threaded spindle is moved in an axial direction by the balls ultimately bringing about the steering movement for the motor vehicle. The ball nut can move in the bearing seat in the described manner in axial direction against the restoring force of the wave spring assemblies and . The narrow bearing surface in the region of the web also enables a slight tilting movement. In this way dynamic loads can be absorbed which without this special bearing would result in a heavy loading of the nut and the threaded spindle in the area of the balls .

Another embodiment of the invention is shown in . The bearing in the embodiment of is smaller in design. Its outer bearing race as in bears in the axial direction to the right across the wave spring assembly and the thrust washer against the collar of the housing cover . In the opposite axial direction the bearing outer race bears by its end face across the wave spring assembly and the thrust washer against a collar which is formed in a sleeve . The sleeve is an essentially tubular part being articulated into several segments as shall be described below.

The sleeve has an internal diameter which is large enough so that the ball nut the intermediate sleeve and the threaded nut can be led through the sleeve . A first segment which is shown at left in has an external diameter corresponding to the internal diameter of the steering housing . The sleeve can be introduced by this segment into the steering housing . The external diameter of the sleeve then widens after this segment into a collar so that the collar can bear against the end face of the steering housing . The external diameter of the sleeve which is enlarged in another segment corresponds roughly to the outer diameter of the steering housing and the inner diameter of the cover in this region providing a gap between the sleeve and the housing cover .

At the collar in against which the thrust washer bears the inner diameter of the sleeve increases from a value corresponding to the inner diameter of the thrust washer to an inner diameter which is greater than that of the thrust washer and also greater than that of the wave spring assembly . The wave spring assembly and the thrust washer can thus be introduced into the sleeve until that lies against the collar . The outer diameter of the sleeve remains unchanged in this region. At a place which coincides roughly with the position of the left end face of the outer bearing race in the axial direction of the axis of symmetry A there is an inwardly convex region of the sleeve . The region is so convex or bulging that starting from the larger radius in the region of the wave spring it decreases continually in a continuous convex curvature of the radius down to a minimum radius and then increases once more to roughly the value of the larger internal diameter in the region of the wave spring assembly . This convex region ends where the sleeve also ends. Here there is formed an end face which is flat and oriented perpendicular to the axis A. The outside of the sleeve has a purely round cylindrical segment which runs with constant diameter at a slight spacing from the housing cover and which tapers with a chamfer toward the end face .

The inner diameter of the sleeve in the region of the smallest radius of the convex region corresponds to the outer diameter of the outer bearing race . Since the outer bearing race corresponds geometrically on its outside to a round cylinder with constant diameter the bearing surface of the outer bearing race is nearly linear in the position shown at the convex region . Under loading the outer bearing race and with it the bearing as well as the entire arrangement of ball nut balls and threaded spindle can move against the restoring force of the wave spring assemblies and in the direction of the axis A. But thanks to the linear bearing against the convex region the outer bearing race can also be tilted in a limited degree. It is therefore ensured that dynamic loads on the nut can be neutralized by a certain mobility of the bearing at their load peaks.

The embodiment of has the advantage over the embodiment of that the bearing can be smaller in dimension and that the overall assembly can furthermore be preinstalled primarily thanks to the sleeve . In particular the sleeve prior to being inserted into the steering housing can already accommodate the wave spring assembly and the thrust washer as well as the bearing with the nut mounting inside it and possibly the threaded spindle already screwed on. The inserting of the sleeve into the bearing is easier than the mounting of the embodiment of . The mounting benefit in many instances outweighs the increased expense for the fabrication of the sleeve . Alternatively it is conceivable and possible for the sleeve to be press fitted by the segment into the housing cover and accordingly the spacing is not present or it is designed with the corresponding press fit. In this way the assembly of bearing and the wave spring assemblies as well as the thrust washers can be installed in this alternative embodiment as a preinstalled assembly with the remaining parts of the power steering system of the vehicle. A simplified embodiment calls for the housing to be made from a hard or hardened steel alloy. In this embodiment which is not illustrated the thrust washer can be eliminated so that the wave spring assembly can bear directly against the collar of the sleeve . With a suitable choice of material there is no danger of the wave spring assembly working its way into the material of the sleeve over time. The steering housing and the housing cover can be made as described above from a light metal alloy or also from a suitable plastic.

A second embodiment of the wave spring assemblies and is shown in in various representations. The wave spring assembly here has one wave spring and a flat ring between which is provided a viscoelastic or elastomer intermediate layer . The wave spring and the ring coincide in their diameter and their width. The wave spring and the ring are concentrically arranged. The thickness of the ring is around six times greater than the thickness of the wave spring . The intermediate layer has the same width and the same diameter as the ring and the wave spring . The thickness of the intermediate layer corresponds on average to roughly the thickness of the wave spring . The wave spring is arranged such that its low points bear against the ring . By bending of the wave spring shearing stresses are produced in the elastomer during operation which results in a consumption of energy and thus a dampening action.

Of course the mentioned dimension of the wave springs the intermediate layer and the ring are dimensioned as needed and therefore can depart from the relations mentioned here.

Merely as a precaution it should be mentioned that the rotating parts as well as the sleeve and the internal regions of the steering housing and the housing cover as well as the sleeve are configured essentially rotationally symmetrical to the longitudinal axis A. In particular the sleeve can be fabricated as a turned part.

In all embodiments it is conceivable and possible for the surfaces which are in frictional contact to be provided with friction reducing surfaces.

The dampening of the bearing of the ball nut according to the invention thanks to the wave spring assemblies has great rigidity in combination with an advantageous dampening thanks to the elastic intermediate layer with very low design height.

