---

title: Fin-stabilized, muzzle-loaded mortar projectile with sabot
abstract: A muzzle-loaded, fin-stabilized mortar round includes a projectile with a discarding sabot mounted thereon. The sabot includes one or more discrete sections that are circumferentially divided into a plurality of discrete sabot increments. In the case of more than one discrete section, the plurality of discrete sections are arranged longitudinally one after another in abutting relationship. Each sabot increment includes a base portion mechanically connected to the projectile and two opposing side portions mechanically connected to circumferentially adjacent sabot increments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09410781&OS=09410781&RS=09410781
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09410781
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140728
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

Fin stabilized muzzle loaded mortar projectiles may be fired from smooth bore or rifled tubes. Various means have been used with fin stabilized projectiles to seal the propellant gas and thereby create the high pressure needed to propel the mortar projectile out of the mortar tube and down range. Obturators and grease grooves are some of the sealing means that have been used.

Some breech loaded smooth bore projectiles such as tank ammunition use a sabot as the sealing or obturating device. The U.S. Army has used a 22 mm sub caliber projectile with an 81 mm sabot MI as a training round. U.S. Pat. No. 3 430 572 issued to Hebert et al. on Mar. 4 1969 discloses a disintegrating sabot for a fin stabilized projectile. U.S. Pat. No. 4 318 344 issued to Price et al. on Mar. 9 1982 discloses a spinning tubular projectile with a combustible sabot. U.S. Pat. No. 4 711 180 issued to Smolnik on Dec. 8 1987 discloses a mortar training device with simulated propelling charges and a sub caliber flight projectile. U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 463 issued to Mutascio et al. on Aug. 24 2004 discloses a sabot launched delivery apparatus for a non lethal payload.

One aspect of the invention is a muzzle loaded fin stabilized mortar round for launching from a mortar tube of a certain caliber. The round includes a projectile having an interior volume defined by a projectile wall. A payload is disposed in the interior volume. A tail boom is fixed to an aft portion of the projectile. A fin assembly is fixed to an aft portion of the tail boom.

A discarding sabot is disposed circumferentially around the projectile. The sabot includes a plurality of discrete sections arranged longitudinally one after another in abutting relationship and around the projectile. Each of the discrete sections is circumferentially divided into a plurality of discrete sabot increments. Each sabot increment includes a base portion mechanically connected to the projectile two opposing side portions mechanically connected to circumferentially adjacent sabot increments and at least one end portion mechanically connected to a longitudinally adjacent sabot increment.

In other embodiments the mortar round includes a central longitudinal axis and the projectile is a sub caliber projectile centered on the central longitudinal axis. The fin assembly may have a diameter at least as large as the caliber of the mortar tube. The discarding sabot may be centered on the central longitudinal axis.

The sub caliber projectile may include a plurality of circumferential grooves formed therein. The base portion of each sabot increment may include a mating projection that is inserted in one of the plurality of circumferential grooves on the exterior surface of the sub caliber projectile to thereby mechanically connect the base portion of the sabot increment to the sub caliber projectile.

Rather than circumferential grooves the exterior surface of the sub caliber projectile may include a plurality of dimples formed therein. The base portion of each sabot increment may include mating dimples that engage some of the plurality of dimples on the exterior surface of the sub caliber projectile to thereby mechanically connect the base portion of the sabot increment to the sub caliber projectile.

One of the two opposing side portions of a sabot increment may include a trapezoidal projection and the other of the two opposing side portions may include a mating trapezoidal recess. Circumferentially adjacent sabot increments may be mechanically connected by inserting the trapezoidal projection of one sabot increment into the mating trapezoidal recess in a circumferentially adjacent sabot increment.

Non parallel sides of the trapezoidal projection may each include a curved projection thereon. Non parallel sides of the mating trapezoidal recess may each include a mating curved recess therein. The curved projection and the mating curved recess may be for example spherical surfaces.

Each sabot increment may have two opposing end portions. One opposing end portion may have a projecting ridge formed thereon and the other opposing end portion may have a mating groove formed therein. Longitudinally adjacent sabot increments may be mechanically connected by inserting the projecting ridge of one sabot increment into the mating groove in a longitudinally adjacent sabot increment.

The projecting ridge may include a plurality of depressions formed thereon and the mating groove may include a plurality of protuberances formed therein. The plurality of protuberances may be nested in respective ones of the plurality of depressions.

Another aspect of the invention is a muzzle loaded fin stabilized mortar round for launching from a mortar tube having a certain caliber. The round includes a central longitudinal axis and a sub caliber projectile. The sub caliber projectile has an interior volume defined by a projectile wall and is centered on the central longitudinal axis. A payload is disposed in the interior volume. A tail boom is fixed to an aft portion of the sub caliber projectile. A fin assembly is fixed to an aft portion of the tail boom.

A sabot is disposed circumferentially around the sub caliber projectile and centered on the central longitudinal axis. The sabot defines an annular orifice centered on the central longitudinal axis. A plug may be inserted in an aft end of the orifice. Upon exit of the round from the mortar tube air pressure forces the plug rearward out of the orifice.

In one embodiment the annular orifice is an annular converging diverging nozzle. In another embodiment the annular orifice has a radially inward linear side and an opposing radially outward converging diverging side.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A fin stabilized muzzle loaded mortar round includes a sabot. The sabot functions as an obturator for the mortar round. The mortar round includes a sub caliber projectile that is propelled toward a desired target. The sub caliber projectile may be longer than existing projectiles and have a smaller diameter than existing projectiles thereby decreasing the drag on the sub caliber projectile and increasing its ballistic coefficient. The sabot is made of a plurality of discrete individual pieces or increments. The sabot quickly releases or disassembles into the individual pieces after the mortar round exits the mortar launch tube. The individual pieces have small momentum and velocity thereby reducing the probability that the pieces will injure personnel or materiel. In addition as the sabot breaks apart the individual pieces impart little or no disturbance to the sub caliber projectile.

The sabot increments are packaged with the mortar round. The mortar round is accelerated by gas pressure acting on the sabot. The sabot increments may be made of for example metallics composite plastics or combustible materials.

As an example an 81 mm diameter sub caliber projectile may be fitted with a sabot sized for a standard 120 mm mortar tube. Because 81 mm is a standard diameter mortar projectile the novel sub caliber 81 mm projectile may be produced on existing 81 mm production equipment with little or no modification to the existing production equipment. The sub caliber projectile may be longer than a standard 120 mm projectile to maintain the same mass as a standard 120 mm projectile. Or the sub caliber projectile may have a mass that is less than a standard 120 mm projectile depending on the range desired. Higher muzzle velocities due to lower projectile mass may result in extended projectile range. Lower aerodynamic drag due to the smaller diameter sub caliber projectile also results in extended range.

Another analogous example is a 60 mm diameter sub caliber projectile fitted with a sabot sized for a standard 81 mm mortar tube.

The sub caliber projectile has an interior volume for a payload such as an explosive charge. The size of the interior volume is dependent on the wall thickness and length of the sub caliber projectile. Thus the wall thickness and length of the sub caliber projectile may be varied to increase the lethal effectiveness of the projectile. In the case of an 81 mm sub caliber projectile the projectile fragments may not have the same velocity as fragments from a 120 mm projectile but the probability of a hit from a sub caliber fragment may be increased over the zone with highest kill probability.

In one embodiment the novel mortar round includes an 81 mm sub caliber projectile having a projectile wall that defines an interior volume therein. A payload such as a high explosive is disposed in the interior volume. A tail boom is fixed to an aft portion of the sub caliber projectile. Propelling charges for a standard 120 mm mortar round may be mounted on the tail boom in a known manner. A 120 mm mortar fin assembly is fixed to an aft portion of the tail boom. A novel sabot made of a plurality of individual increments is fixed to the sub caliber projectile. The sub caliber projectile will have a range that is greater than the range of the standard 120 mm projectile.

In another embodiment the novel mortar round includes a standard 81 mm projectile such as an M821 projectile. The projectile includes a projectile wall that defines an interior volume therein. A tail boom is fixed to an aft portion of the standard 81 mm projectile. Propelling charges for a standard 81 mm mortar round may be mounted on the tail boom in a known manner. An 81 mm mortar fin assembly is fixed to an aft portion of the tail boom. A novel sabot made of a plurality of individual increments is fixed to the standard projectile. The sabot may be of a size for launching from a 120 mm mortar tube. The standard 81 mm projectile fitted with the novel sabot will have a range that is greater than the range of the standard 81 mm projectile without the sabot.

Compared to the logistical burden of the standard 120 mm mortar system the logistical burden of using the novel mortar round with the sub caliber projectile and the sabot will be the same or less. For example a 120 mm high explosive mortar round may weigh about 31 pounds while an 81 mm high explosive round with a sabot may weigh about 11 pounds. Further the use of the super caliber fins with the sub caliber projectile increases the aerodynamic stability and accuracy of the sub caliber projectile. The increased accuracy reduces the ballistic circular error probability CEP and may reduce the number of rounds per kill thereby further reducing the logistical burden.

The sub caliber projectile may have a generally cylindrical overall shape. The sabot increments are fixed to the outer surface of the sub caliber projectile. In addition to generally cylindrical shapes the sabot increments may be fixed to non cylindrical uniquely shaped projectiles thereby enabling the launch of those uniquely shaped projectiles from known mortar tubes. Examples of non cylindrical projectiles include asymmetric lifting bodies for instance bodies with geometries similar to flying wing geometries.

Round includes a sub caliber projectile having an interior volume defined by a projectile wall . Projectile may be centered on axis A. Sub caliber means that the caliber or diameter of projectile is less than caliber B. For example if caliber B is 120 mm projectile may be an 81 mm caliber projectile or if caliber B is 81 mm projectile may be a 60 mm caliber projectile. Caliber B may be other sizes also.

A payload is disposed in the interior volume . Payload may be for example high explosive material smoke producing material etc. A tail boom is fixed to an all portion of the sub caliber projectile . Propelling charges not shown may be disposed on tail boom in a known manner. A fin assembly is fixed to an aft portion of the tail boom . The fin assembly has an outer diameter at least as large as the caliber B of the mortar tube .

A discarding sabot is disposed circumferentially around the sub caliber projectile and centered on the central longitudinal axis A. Sabot includes a plurality of discrete sections arranged longitudinally one after another in abutting relationship and around the sub caliber projectile . The discrete sections may be generally annular in shape. In additional discrete sections are shown between sections and but are not individually called out with a reference character. The number of discrete sections in sabot may vary.

The axial location of sabot on projectile may be varied to vary the chamber volume in mortar tube . Varying the chamber volume will alter the ballistic performance of projectile .

Each discrete section is circumferentially divided into a respective plurality of discrete sabot increments . The number of sabot increments per section is at least two and may be up to twenty four or more. In the embodiment of each discrete section is circumferentially divided into twelve increments. The division of sabot into discrete longitudinal sections and into discrete increments in each section enables the sabot to rapidly separate from the projectile at muzzle exit. In addition the relatively small size and mass of each increment greatly reduces the probability of the discarded increments causing harm to personnel or property. The small mass of each increment also minimizes or eliminates any disturbances that might be imparted to projectile as the increments separate from the projectile at muzzle exit. Preferably the sabot increments are made of a plastic material and may be formed by injection molding.

The aft most sabot section may have an outer diameter about the same as the caliber B of the mortar tube to enable sealing of the propellant gases behind sabot . The sabot sections forward of section may have smaller outer diameters than aft most section . Aft most section may optionally include an obturator groove for receiving an obturator not shown .

Each sabot increment includes a respective base portion that is mechanically connected or engaged with the sub caliber projectile . The propelling force of the propellant gas behind sabot is transferred to projectile by the mechanical engagement between base portions and projectile . Various types of mechanical engagement may be used. In the embodiment of a plurality of circumferential grooves are formed in the exterior surface of projectile wall . Projections on respective base portions of sabot increments engage respective grooves in wall . In addition each increment may be sized to provide a snap or interference fit on projectile wall . By increasing the number of sections the amount of propelling force transferred from sabot to projectile may be increased.

Another way to mechanically engage base portions of the sabot increments with projectile is by forming dimples in the base portions of the sabot increments and forming mating or complementary dimples on the exterior surface of the sub caliber projectile. is a side view of a sub caliber projectile having a central longitudinal axis C. Projectile has dimples formed on its exterior surface. is a bottom view of one embodiment of a sabot increment having a base portion with dimples formed there. Dimples on sabot base portion mechanically engage dimples on projectile and transfer propelling force from the sabot to the projectile . Dimples may be similar in shape to dimples on golf balls.

A further way to mechanically engage base portions of the sabot increments with projectile is by forming longitudinal grooves in the exterior surface of projectile and forming mating or complementary projections on the base portions of the sabot increments. is a side view of a sub caliber projectile with longitudinal grooves formed on its exterior surface. The base portions of the sabot increments have corresponding projections not shown that mate with the grooves .

Additional features of the sabot increments will be described with reference to sabot increment shown in detail in . Sabot increments have base portions with projections for engaging grooves while the base portion of sabot increment is dimpled. However the circumferential and longitudinal increment to increment interlocking features of sabot increment correspond to for example the structure of sabot increments 

Sabot increment includes two opposing side portions . The opposing side portions provide a mechanical connection between circumferentially adjacent sabot increments. Side portion includes a trapezoidal projection and side portion includes a mating trapezoidal recess . The opposing non parallel sides of the trapezoidal projection each include a curved projection thereon. The opposing non parallel sides of the mating trapezoidal recess each include a mating curved recess therein. In one embodiment the curved projection and the mating curved recess are spherical surfaces. Circumferentially adjacent sabot increments are mechanically connected by inserting the trapezoidal projection of one sabot increment into the mating trapezoidal recess of a circumferentially adjacent sabot increment and nesting the curved projections in the curved recesses .

Sabot increment includes two opposing end portions . The opposing end portions provide a mechanical connection between longitudinally adjacent sabot increments. One opposing end portion has projecting ridge formed thereon. The other opposing end portion has a mating groove formed therein. The projecting ridge includes a plurality of depressions formed thereon. The mating groove includes a plurality of protuberances formed therein. Longitudinally adjacent sabot increments are mechanically connected by inserting the projecting ridge of one sabot increment into the mating groove in a longitudinally adjacent sabot increment . In addition the plurality of protuberances in mating groove are nested in respective ones of the plurality of depressions .

As described above the novel sabot includes a plurality of discrete sections arranged longitudinally in series. Each section is circumferentially divided into a plurality of discrete sabot increments. The mechanical connections between the sabot increments and the sub caliber projectile along with the mechanical connections between circumferentially adjacent and longitudinally adjacent sabot increments insure the effective performance of the sabot in the mortar tube. Simultaneously the features of the sabot insure after muzzle exit a quick discard of the sabot into small non lethal pieces that have a minimal if any effect on the ballistics of the sub caliber projectile.

Round excluding sabot may be for example a standard mortar round such as an 81 mm M821 mortar round or a 60 mm M720 mortar round. Round may be launched from a mortar tube larger than 81 mm for example a 120 mm mortar tube by using sabot . Sabot may be circumferentially divided into a plurality of discrete sabot increments . The number of sabot increments may vary from at least two to as many as twenty four.

Round includes a sub caliber projectile having an interior volume defined by a projectile wall . Projectile may be centered on axis Y. A payload may be disposed in the interior volume . Payload may be for example high explosive material smoke producing material etc. A tail boom is fixed to an aft portion of the sub caliber projectile . Propelling charges not shown may be disposed on tail boom in a known manner. A fin assembly is fixed to an aft portion of the tail boom .

A sabot is disposed circumferentially around the sub caliber projectile and centered on the central longitudinal axis Y. Sabot is a monolithic structure that defines an interior annular converging diverging nozzle . Prior to launch of round a plug is inserted in an aft end of the nozzle . Plug may also function as an obturator. Upon exit of the round from the mortar tube air pressure forces the plug rearward out of the nozzle . The axial location of sabot on projectile depends on the effect lift or drag desired from the nozzle . Thus sabot may be axially placed at the center of gravity of projectile or forward or aft of the center of gravity of projectile .

Round includes a sub caliber projectile having an interior volume defined by a projectile wall . Projectile may be centered on axis X. A payload may be disposed in the interior volume . Payload may be for example high explosive material smoke producing material etc. A tail boom is fixed to an aft portion of the sub caliber projectile . Propelling charges not shown may be disposed on tail boom in a known manner. A fin assembly is fixed to an aft portion of the tail boom .

A sabot is disposed circumferentially around the sub caliber projectile and centered on the central longitudinal axis X. Sabot is a monolithic structure that defines an interior annular orifice . Orifice includes a radially interior linear surface or side . Linear side may be defined by the projectile wall . Opposite from the linear side is a converging diverging side . Prior to launch of round a plug is inserted in an aft end of the orifice . Plug may also function as an obturator. Upon exit of the round from the mortar tube air pressure forces the plug rearward out of the orifice . The axial location of sabot on projectile depends on the effect desired from the orifice .

As alternatives to nozzle and orifice annular openings in sabots such as sabots may have other geometries as well. The annular openings may be used to maneuver the projectile accelerate the projectile or maintain the projectile s velocity using for example propulsion scramjet or ramjet type orifices.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

