---

title: Using a local authorization extension to provide access authorization for a module to access a computing system
abstract: Provided are a method, system, and computer program product for a local authorization extension to provide access authorization for a module to access a computing system. A memory stores information on a first validity range comprising position coordinates for a module seeking to access the computing system and a second validity range comprising position coordinates for a location authorization extension for a computing system. A determination is made of a first position signal from a first receiver of the module and of a second position signal from a second receiver of the location authorization module. Determinations are made as to whether the first position signal is within the first validity range and whether the second position signal is within the second validity range. The module is granted access to the computing system in response to determining that the first position signal is within the first validity range and the second position signal is within the second validity range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344435&OS=09344435&RS=09344435
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09344435
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 686 819 filed Nov. 27 2012 which is a non provisional application that claims priority benefits under Title 35 United States Code Section 119 a d from European Patent Application entitled CLOUD MAINTENANCE AND AUTHORIZATION by Dr. Jens Peter AKELBEIN and Wolfgang MUELLER FRIEDT having European Patent Application No. EP11191490.9 filed on Dec. 1 2011 which United States and European Patent Applications are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Provided are a method system and computer program product for a local authorization extension to provide access authorization for a module to access a computing system.

Today many computing services are delivered as cloud services provided by a cloud computing center in particular a public cloud computing or private cloud computing centers or simply cloud center. The cloud services may comprise techniques such as software as a service platform as a service and or infrastructure as a service IaaS . A public cloud system is typically operated by a cloud provider which offers cloud services for private business to consumer B2C or enterprise costumers business to business B2B being referred to as cloud service consumers or customers. A trivial cloud service may be an access to a computing system with an operating system of any kind installed which may be provided by the cloud service provider to the customer. Plain storage services may be provided out of storage clouds using standardized protocols like CIFS Common Internet File System and NFS Network File System or proprietary implementations. Normally application services are provided on application specific protocols. Very often operating systems in cloud service centers may not run directly on physical computing systems but on hypervisors.

Key concerns of using and consuming cloud services are security insufficiencies. Consumers of cloud services want their data to be protected. Cloud customers also want a stable computing environment such that a system once set up may not be stopped by service personal maintaining hardware components within a cloud computing center.

In order to provide high standards for security in cloud computing centers several state of the art technologies have been developed. Patent Cooperation Treaty PCT Patent Publication WO2010 059673 discloses systems methods and apparatus for tunneling in a cloud based security system. Management of tunnels such as data tunnels between enterprises and processing nodes for a security service is facilitated by the use of virtual gateway nodes and migration fail over to minimize traffic impacts when a tunnel is migrated from one processing node to another processing node.

U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0072486 discloses a system comprising one or more processors coupled to a memory and execution logic. A policy life cycle component is configured to maintain a repository of security policies. The repository of security policies comprises policies governing access to a virtual host and to a plurality of virtual machines running on the virtual host. The policy life cycle component is also configured to issue a compound policy for an identified virtual operating system running on the virtual host.

However known systems for managing secure maintenance in a cloud computing environment may typically rely on methods known from non virtualized computing centers.

Provided are a method system and computer program product for a local authorization extension to provide access authorization for a module to access a computing system. A memory stores information on a first validity range comprising position coordinates for a module seeking to access the computing system and a second validity range comprising position coordinates for a location authorization extension for a computing system. A determination is made of a first position signal from a first receiver of the module and of a second position signal from a second receiver of the location authorization module. Determinations are made as to whether the first position signal is within the first validity range and whether the second position signal is within the second validity range. The module is granted access to the computing system in response to determining that the first position signal is within the first validity range and the second position signal is within the second validity range.

There is a need in the art for an improved method for accessing computing systems in a cloud environment such that a high degree of security for the cloud service consumers is provided. This need may be addressed by the below described embodiments for maintenance to a computing system in a cloud environment an access authorization system location authorization extension a computing system and a computer program product according to the independent claims.

According to one embodiment a method for an access authorization for maintenance to a computing system may comprise a hypervisor for controlling the computing system a location authorization extension communicatively coupled to the computing system in particular to a central processing unit CPU of the computing system wherein the location authorization extension may comprise a first receiver for a global positioning system. Further provided is a first validity range for the location authorization extension and a service authorization module comprising a second receiver for the global positioning system.

Moreover the method may comprise defining a second validity range for the service authorization module and determining by the hypervisor based on a first position signal from the first receiver and a second position signal of the second receiver that the location authorization extension may be positioned within the first validity range and that the service authorization module may be located within the second validity range wherein the service authorization module and the location authorization extension may be communicatively coupled. Finally the method may comprise granting under control of the hypervisor physical access for maintenance to the computing system.

According to another embodiment an access authorization system for an access authorization for maintenance to a computing system in a cloud environment may comprise a location authorization extension communicatively coupled to the computing system wherein the location authorization extension may comprise a first receiver for a global positioning system a hypervisor for controlling the computing system a first defining unit adapted for defining a first validity range for the location authorization extension and a second defining unit adapted for defining a second validity range for a service authorization module.

The service authorization module may comprise a second receiver for the global positioning system wherein the service authorization module and the location authorization extension may be communicatively coupled. The hypervisor may be adapted for determining based on a first position signal from the first receiver and a second position signal of the second receiver that the location authorization module may be positioned within the first validity range and that the service authorization module may be positioned within the second validity range. Furthermore a granting unit may be present. The granting unit may be adapted for granting under control of the hypervisor physical access for maintenance to the computing system.

In a further embodiment a location authorization extension is integrated into a central processing unit of a computing system and may comprise a receiver for a global positing system and a validation memory for storing a key and a validation range.

The communicative coupling between the service authorization module and the location authorization extension may be implemented based on a wire or wireless. In order to establish a by wire connection the service authorization module may have to be plugged into a socket that may be electrically connected to the location authorization extension. If the first and the second validity range are identical the service authorization module may need to be located within the first validity range and thus in the validity range of the computing system.

Computing systems located in cloud computing centers may only be accessed for maintenance if the service personnel has a secure authentication so that computing systems may not be stopped or shut down by accident for maintenance purposes. Because cloud service consumers may typically be located remotely to the cloud computing center a shut down of a computer or a stop of a virtual machine that may actually be accessed by the cloud service consumer may cause unforeseeable damage in the business relationship between the cloud service consumer and the cloud service provider. Certain of the described embodiments provide a secure way to protect computing systems as part of a cloud computing environment such that these computing systems may not be subject to unauthorized access for maintenance tasks. Cloud computing service centers having several hundreds of computing systems may require maintenance and a wrong selection of a computing system for maintenance by service personnel may frequently occur. To avoid this problem the cloud service consumer as well as the cloud service management center may be authorized based on geographical positions or ranges.

Access authorization The term access authorization may denote a physical access to a computing system. The computing system may be installed in a cloud computing center. The computing system may be secured in a physical way e.g. by a locked cabinet rack or any other kind of physical protection to a computing system. Authorization access to these systems may denote unlocking the mentioned equipment.

Additionally an access to the systems may be locked on a software level such that a system management access task may be disabled.

Computing system The term computing system may denote any computing system like server systems components of a storage rack blade systems installed in a rack system tape systems or any other kind of equipment typically installed in computing centers in particular cloud computing centers.

Hypervisor The term hypervisor may denote a control program being installed on physical hardware of a computing system for running one or more virtual machines.

Location authorization extension This term may denote a physical hardware extension to a computing system in particular to a central processing unit CPU of a computing system. The local authorization extension may physically be a part of or linked to a CPU at a hardware level or may be integrated on the main board or alternatively it may be provided as a removable component.

Global positioning system The term global positioning system may denote a system that may allow a receiver for the global positioning system to determine its physical position on earth. This position may be related to a map being stored together with the receiver such that a position may be marked on the map. However in some cases only geo coordinates may be given.

Range The term range may denote a physical environment in two or three physical dimensions. The range may be limited by a polygon wherein the edges of the polygon may be defined or given e.g. by geo coordinates.

Service authorization module The term service authorization module may denote a physical system that may be carried by maintenance personnel. The maintenance personnel may have the task to perform service jobs to computing systems in the above sense in a cloud computing center. The service authorization module may be a physical device comprising a global positioning system receiver and other electronic components for controlling and communication purposes. It may be instrumental for a secure authorized access to a computing system in the cloud computing center.

Cloud environment The term cloud environment or cloud computing environment may denote several components There may be a cloud computing center comprising a plurality of physical computing systems. In cloud computing environments these computing systems may typically run a hypervisor each for controlling a plurality of operating systems on one physical computing system. Different applications may be controlled by the different operating systems. Cloud computing consumers may access the applications or part of the applications as services. On the cloud computing provider side applications and services may be maintained as single or multi tenant services or applications. Cloud computing service consumers are typically not involved in any operation tasks of the software the underlying infrastructure the operating system or the hardware computing systems.

Maintenance The term maintenance may denote the process of performing a service to a computing system. This may comprise exchanging a physical disk cleaning a fan exchanging a filter replacing a memory board or any other physical component of a computing system. Normally maintenance means that the operation of the computing system may have to be stopped and eventually switched off. In the context of this document maintenance may denote a physical access to a computing system.

In one embodiment the communicative coupling between the service authorization module and the location authorization extension may be encrypted. This may have the advantage that non authorized service personnel carrying a service authorization module that is not authorized to access the computing system having the location authorization extension may not be granted access to the computing system.

In another embodiment the location authorization extension may comprise a validation memory adapted for storing a first key indicative of an image of a virtual machine to be executed under control of the hypervisor on the computing system and for storing the first validity range together with the first key.

The key may in particular be an identifier for the image as well as an identifier to defined validity ranges for the image. The first validity range may be defined when setting up a computing center and or physically installing the computing system. Thus the location authorization extension may be stored at the location of the computing system. This may later be compared to an actual measured position by the global positioning system receiver of the computing system and or the location authorization extension respectively. If the position of the computing system may be outside the first validity range maintenance access may be denied.

In a further embodiment the validation memory may also be adapted for storing the second validity range together with the first key. Thus the first key may be stored together with the first validity range and the second validity range. The second validity range may as described above be an allowed range for a service technician carrying the service authorization module. It may turn out that for each image for a virtual machine to be executed on the computing system one of such datasets comprising at least the first key the first validity range and the second validity range may be stored in the validation memory of the location authorization extension. Thus if the service personal is not within its respective range and the computing system is not located within its respective range no maintenance access to the computing system e.g. neither to the software nor to the hardware may be granted.

The validation memory may be adapted for storing even more validity ranges. There may also be a third validity range for a service center controlling the operation of the computing system as well as a fourth validity range that may be used for a customer of the services provided by the computing system and or the executed image.

According to an alternative embodiment the image of the virtual machine to be run under control of the hypervisor may be stored and or transmitted to the hypervisor in an encrypted form wherein a second key may be used for decryption. This may enhance the security of the system. Also the second key may be stored within the dataset of the first key.

In a yet further embodiment the first validity range as well as the second validity range may each be defined by coordinates of at least three different physical positions defining corners of the respective validity range wherein the respective validity range may have a two dimensional or three dimensional shape. The shape may be two dimensional if three physical positions may be given and may have a three dimensional shape if at least four physical positions may be given. The physical positions may have been determined by a receiver of a global positioning system. Alternatively the range may have been defined by a central point that may have been determined by a global positioning system and thus having geo coordinates and a surrounding e.g. defined by a radius using the position as a center or a corner. Alternatively the range may be a rectangular with defined side lengths and a default position of the central point rectangular e.g. in the middle in one corner etc.

In one embodiment the virtual machine running on the hypervisor may be stopped based on an authorization code. The authorization code may be provided by a first authorization authority which may be a control center for the computing system in a cloud computing center or in short a service center which may control the cloud computing center comprising the computing system.

The authorization code may be provided to the hypervisor e.g. wireless or by wire. The authorization code may comprise physical coordinates of the first authorization authority. This may guarantee that service personnel may access the computing system or its components only if the physical coordinates of the cloud computing center may be located within a defined respective validity range e.g. a third validity range that may have been stored in the validation memory of the location authorization extension. Thus the virtual machine of the computing system may only be stopped if the location authorization extension authorizes the cloud computing control center and the service personnel to access the computing system.

In an additional embodiment the authorization code may comprise physical coordinates of a second authorization authority in particular a user of the computing system or the virtual machine. This may also allow codifying a physical position of a user or customer into the access method.

In a yet further embodiment prior to the stopping of the virtual machine a determination is made that the physical coordinates of the first authorization authority are positioned within a third validity range stored in the validation memory. Thus the location authorization extension may control an access to the related computing system in a way that a remote access by a service center may only be granted if the service center may be positioned within a respective validity range such as the third validity range that may have been stored before in the validity memory. Based on this determination the computing system may decide whether the service center may be authorized to access the computing system.

In a further embodiment prior to the stopping of the virtual machine a determination may be made that the physical coordinates of the second authorization authority may be positioned within a fourth validity range stored in the validation memory. Such a fourth validity range may be associated to a user or customer of the image of the computing system. Thus physical access to the computing system or software access to applications and the virtual machine may be granted only if all physical positions in particular those of the computing system i.e. the location authorization extension the service authorization module and the first and second authorization authorities are determined to be located within their respective validity range stored in the validation memory.

Furthermore a computer or computing system may comprise the access authorization module as described above the performs the method for access authorization. The computing system may be a component of a cloud computing center. The access authorization module may in particular be an extension to a CPU of a computing system.

In another embodiment a data processing program for execution in a data processing system may be provided comprising software code portions for performing the method as described above when the program may be run on a data processing system. The data processing system may be a computer or computer system.

Furthermore embodiments may take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purpose of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any apparatus that may contain means for storing communicating propagating or transporting the program for use by or in a connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium may be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or a semi conductor system for a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium may include a semi conductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W DVD and Blu Ray Disk.

It should also be noted that embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to different subject matters. In particular some embodiments have been described with reference to method type claims whereas other embodiments have been described with reference to apparatus type claims. However a person skilled in the art will gather from the above and the following description that unless otherwise notified in addition to any combination of features belonging to one type of subject matter also any combination between features relating to different subject matters in particular between features of the method type claims and features of the apparatus type claims is considered as to be disclosed within this document.

In the following a detailed description of the figures will be given. All illustrations in the figures are schematic. Firstly a block diagram of an embodiment of the inventive method for an access authorization for maintenance to a computing system may be given. Afterwards embodiments of the method and an access authorization system will be described.

In addition shows an authorization module which may be a service authorization module SAM . The module may comprise a position determination module or receiver e.g. adapted for receiving signal of a global positioning system and determining its own position and an encryption module . Both instances and of encryption modules may ensure a secure and trusted transmission of position information and authorization information between and . Prior art encryption technologies may be used. Several service technicians may carry their own service authorization module.

The location authorization extension may provide an instruction set as a location authorization extension application programming interface LAE API for creating validating and deleting location aware handling of virtual images. The LAE API may be used by the hypervisor program .

1. Key1 first key A unique identifier created by the LAE in conjunction with a list of location ranges. Key1 may have a 1 1 relationship with the list of location ranges.

2. Key2 second key A unique key created by the LAE out of a list of positions. The Key2 may be used by the hypervisor for encrypting the image of a virtual system. An encryption of virtual systems prevents from utilizing the image without former authorization.

4. list of location ranges A list of one or multiple ranges each being defined as a list of at least three or more physical positions being defined as edges of a two dimensional or three dimensional range.

5. list of SAM positions A list of one or multiple physical positions. The positions may be provided in an encrypted format to be exchanged between and .

Key1 Create Image Localization list of location ranges may store a list of location ranges in validation memory including a generated Key1 as a dataset and may return Key1. A Zero key may be interpreted as failure of the instruction.

Ret Update Image Localization list of location ranges may update a list of location ranges in being stored in a dataset identified by Key1. Ret may return instruction results.

The function Key2 Set Image Localization Key1 Key2 list of SAM positions may generate the Key2. It may authenticate a list of SAM positions with a list of location ranges previously being stored. The dataset containing the list of location ranges may be addressed by Key1. The instruction may generate a Key2 to be used as an encryption key outside the LAE. Key2 may be stored in the same dataset. The Key2 may be returned by the instruction. A Zero key may be interpreted as failure of the instruction

The function Key2 Get Image Localization Key1 list of SAM positions may return the Key2 for decryption. It may authenticate a list of SAM positions with a list of location ranges previously being stored. The dataset containing the list of location ranges may be addressed by Key1. The instruction may return a previously generated Key2 being stored in the dataset. A Zero key may be interpreted as failure of the instruction.

Ret Delete Image Localization Key1 list of SAM positions . It may authenticate a list of SAM positions with a list of location ranges previously being stored. It may delete the dataset identified by Key1 and previously being stored in . It may return instruction results.

The following table may illustrate an embodiment of an organization of keys and ranges in the validation memory.

The hypervisor and or a granting unit respectively may only allow a physical access to the computing system for maintenance if the cloud service center may be within a predefined range stored within the validation memory of the location authorization extension. The same applies to a cloud service customer. The cloud service customer signals a geo position which in turn may be compared to a predefined position and a determination is made as to whether this position may be located with a defined range of a customer. Thus maintenance access may only be granted if all three the customer the cloud service center and the service personal identifiable and locatable by the service authorization module may be within the ranges pre defined and stored in the validation memory which may be part of the access authorization extension.

Embodiments may be implemented together with virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being suitable for storing and or executing program code. For example as shown in a computer system which may be functional identical to the cloud computing node of may include one or more processor s with one or more cores per processor associated memory elements an internal storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The memory elements may include a main memory e.g. a random access memory RAM employed during actual execution of the program code and a cache memory which provides temporary storage of at least some program code and or data in order to reduce the number of times code and or data must be retrieved from a long term storage medium or external bulk storage for an execution. Elements inside the computer may be linked together by means of a bus system with corresponding adapters. Additionally the access authorization extension may be attached to the bus system . It may alternatively be implemented as integral component of the processor .

The computer system may also include input means such as a keyboard a pointing device such as a mouse or a microphone not shown . Furthermore the computer may include output means such as a monitor or screen e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display a light emitting diode display LED or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network including wireless networks via a network interface connection . This may allow a coupling to other computer systems or a storage network or a tape drive. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system may include at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

The CPU may be extended by a location authorization extension LAE comprising components and as explained above. The control unit of a CPU may be extended by the instruction set for the LAE. The instruction set may provide individual processor instructions for implementing the execution of each LAE instruction as defined above.

In a further embodiment one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources or a smart phone.

Further software instructions to perform certain of the embodiments may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disk CD a diskette a tape or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein.

It should also be noted that the term comprising does not exclude other elements or steps and a or an does not exclude a plurality. On the other side the term comprising may also include the case of consisting of . Also elements described in association with different embodiments may be combined. It should also be noted that reference signs in the claims should not be construed as limiting elements.

