---

title: Substituted pyrazolo[3,4-D]pyrimidines and uses thereof
abstract: Presented herein are novel therapeutic compounds and methods of using the same for the treatment of cancers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09321772&OS=09321772&RS=09321772
owner: Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai
number: 09321772
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140225
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Applications No. 61 530 847 filed Sep. 2 2011 and 61 606 296 filed Mar. 2 2012 which are all incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under grant nos. R01 EB001987 R01 CA084309 and R01 CA109730 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and grant no. W81XWH 06 1 0727 awarded by the U.S. Army Medical Research and Materiel Command. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Protein kinases play important regulatory roles in numerous biological pathways controlling for example the cell cycle cell division metabolism transcription and protein biosynthesis. The wide spread involvement of protein kinases in biology is underscored by links between dysregulated kinases and disease. A wide range of protein kinases have been identified as the critical drivers of various pathologies including cancer diabetes and inflammation. The cellular kinase signaling network is a major regulator of cancer progression kinase signaling pathways are often co opted for pathogenesis and mutations in a large number of kinases have been identified as potent drivers of oncogenesis Ding L. et al. 2008. 455 7216 p. 1069 75 Greenman C. et al. 2007. 446 7132 p. 153 8 Wood L. D. et al. 2007. 318 5853 p. 1108 13 Network C. G. A. R. 2008. 455 7216 p. 1061 8 . The paradigm for development of kinase inhibitor therapeutics in cancer has emerged from the success of Imatinib which targets the single oncogenic kinase Bcr Abl that directs Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia CML Druker B. J. 2008. 112 13 p. 4808 17 . More generally the architecture of kinase signaling networks provide multiple candidate targets for treatment of most cancer types Knight Z. A. H. Lin and K. M. Shokat 10 2 p. 130 7 Manning G. et al. 2002. 298 5600 p. 1912 34 . However inhibition of specific kinases often provides only limited therapeutic efficacy. Although widely predicted to be successful highly selective inhibitors of growth factor pathway related kinases such as MEK1 or mitotic regulators such as Aurora B have been disappointing Haura E. B. et al. 16 8 p. 2450 7 Lorusso P. M. et al. 2005. 23 23 p. 5281 93 Pratilas C. A. and D. B. Solit 16 13 p. 3329 34 Rinehart J. et al. 2004. 22 22 p. 4456 62 Boss D. S. J. H. Beijnen and J. H. Schellens 2009. 14 8 p. 780 93 Boss D. S. et al. 22 2 p. 431 7 . Sources of failure include rapidly emerging resistance as well as significant toxicity which can limit dosing to levels insufficient to block tumor growth. The complexity of signaling networks and the challenge of attacking a tumor in the midst of multiple healthy organ systems that share many of the same pathway components has severely hampered the development of useful single target kinase inhibitors. By contrast most drugs approved for clinical use have multiple targets Karaman M. W. et al. 2008. 26 1 p. 127 32 Mestres J. et al. 2009. 5 9 p. 1051 7 . For many or perhaps most off target activities likely contribute to the drug s overall efficacy although the mechanistic basis for this efficacy is known in only a small number of cases.

Phenotype based drug discovery has historically been highly successful but it has been largely supplanted by target based discovery. Sorafenib provides a recent example of this mode of drug discovery Lyons J. F. et al. 2001. 8 3 p. 219 25 . Sorafenib was initially developed as an inhibitor of Raf kinase yet it showed little efficacy in mutant Ras or Raf driven tumors. The efficacy of Sorafenib in renal and hepatocellular cancer was later attributed to inhibition of the kinase VEGFR2 in endothelial cells and potentially PDGFR in pericytes other targets may also play a role Ahmad T. and T. Eisen 2004. 10 18 Pt 2 p. 6388S 92S Liu L. et al. 2006. 66 24 p. 11851 8 Ostman A. and C. H. Heldin 2007. 97 p. 247 74 .

Most MEN2 patients have an autosomal dominant activating mutation in the Ret rearranged during transfection receptor tyrosine kinase that is necessary and likely sufficient to direct a series of transformation events including medullary thyroid carcinoma MTC parathyroid adenoma and pheochromocytoma Lairmore T. C. et al. 1993. 90 2 p. 492 6 Almeida M. Q. and C. A. Stratakis 2010. 203 1 p. 30 6 . The present invention provides solutions to these and other problems in the art.

In a second aspect is provided a pharmaceutical composition including a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a compound as described herein e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof .

In a third aspect is provided a method of treating cancer in a subject in need thereof the method including administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound as described herein e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof .

In a fourth aspect is provided a method of reducing the activity of RET kinase Raf kinase Src kinase and S6K kinase the method including contacting a RET kinase a Raf kinase a Src kinase and a S6K kinase with an effective amount of a compound as described herein e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof .

In a fifth aspect is provided a method of reducing the activity of AXL kinase the method including contacting an AXL kinase with an effective amount of a compound as described herein e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof .

The abbreviations used herein have their conventional meaning within the chemical and biological arts. The chemical structures and formulae set forth herein are constructed according to the standard rules of chemical valency known in the chemical arts.

Where substituent groups are specified by their conventional chemical formulae written from left to right they equally encompass the chemically identical substituents that would result from writing the structure from right to left e.g. CHO is equivalent to OCH .

The term alkyl by itself or as part of another substituent means unless otherwise stated a straight i.e. unbranched or branched carbon chain or carbon or combination thereof which may be fully saturated mono or polyunsaturated and can include di and multivalent radicals having the number of carbon atoms designated i.e. C Cmeans one to ten carbons . Examples of saturated hydrocarbon radicals include but are not limited to groups such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl t butyl isobutyl sec butyl cyclohexyl methyl homologs and isomers of for example n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl n octyl and the like. An unsaturated alkyl group is one having one or more double bonds or triple bonds. Examples of unsaturated alkyl groups include but are not limited to vinyl 2 propenyl crotyl 2 isopentenyl 2 butadienyl 2 4 pentadienyl 3 1 4 pentadienyl ethynyl 1 and 3 propynyl 3 butynyl and the higher homologs and isomers. An alkoxy is an alkyl attached to the remainder of the molecule via an oxygen linker O .

The term alkylene by itself or as part of another substituent means unless otherwise stated a divalent radical derived from an alkyl as exemplified but not limited by CHCHCHCH . Typically an alkyl or alkylene group will have from 1 to 24 carbon atoms with those groups having 10 or fewer carbon atoms being preferred in the present invention. A lower alkyl or lower alkylene is a shorter chain alkyl or alkylene group generally having eight or fewer carbon atoms. The term alkenylene by itself or as part of another substituent means unless otherwise stated a divalent radical derived from an alkene.

The term heteroalkyl by itself or in combination with another term means unless otherwise stated a stable straight or branched chain or combinations thereof including at least one carbon atom and at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O N P Si and S and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized. The heteroatom s O N P S and Si may be placed at any interior position of the heteroalkyl group or at the position at which the alkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule. Examples include but are not limited to CH CH O CH CH CH NH CH CH CH N CH CH CH S CH CH CH CH S O CH CH CH S O CH CH CH O CH Si CH CH CH N OCH CH CH N CH CH O CH O CH CH and CN. Up to two or three heteroatoms may be consecutive such as for example CH NH OCHand CH O Si CH .

Similarly the term heteroalkylene by itself or as part of another substituent means unless otherwise stated a divalent radical derived from heteroalkyl as exemplified but not limited by CH CH S CH CH and CH S CH CH NH CH . For heteroalkylene groups heteroatoms can also occupy either or both of the chain termini e.g. alkyleneoxy alkylenedioxy alkyleneamino alkylenediamino and the like . Still further for alkylene and heteroalkylene linking groups no orientation of the linking group is implied by the direction in which the formula of the linking group is written. For example the formula C O R represents both C O R and R C O . As described above heteroalkyl groups as used herein include those groups that are attached to the remainder of the molecule through a heteroatom such as C O R C O NR NR R OR SR and or SOR . Where heteroalkyl is recited followed by recitations of specific heteroalkyl groups such as NR R or the like it will be understood that the terms heteroalkyl and NR R are not redundant or mutually exclusive. Rather the specific heteroalkyl groups are recited to add clarity. Thus the term heteroalkyl should not be interpreted herein as excluding specific heteroalkyl groups such as NR R or the like.

The terms cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl by themselves or in combination with other terms mean unless otherwise stated cyclic versions of alkyl and heteroalkyl respectively. Additionally for heterocycloalkyl a heteroatom can occupy the position at which the heterocycle is attached to the remainder of the molecule. Examples of cycloalkyl include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl 3 cyclohexenyl cycloheptyl and the like. Examples of heterocycloalkyl include but are not limited to 1 1 2 5 6 tetrahydropyridyl 1 piperidinyl 2 piperidinyl 3 piperidinyl 4 morpholinyl 3 morpholinyl tetrahydrofuran 2 yl tetrahydrofuran 3 yl tetrahydrothien 2 yl tetrahydrothien 3 yl 1 piperazinyl 2 piperazinyl and the like. A cycloalkylene and a heterocycloalkylene alone or as part of another substituent means a divalent radical derived from a cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl respectively.

The terms halo or halogen by themselves or as part of another substituent mean unless otherwise stated a fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine atom. Additionally terms such as haloalkyl are meant to include monohaloalkyl and polyhaloalkyl. For example the term halo C C alkyl includes but is not limited to fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 4 chlorobutyl 3 bromopropyl and the like.

The term acyl means unless otherwise stated C O R where R is a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.

The term aryl means unless otherwise stated a polyunsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon substituent which can be a single ring or multiple rings preferably from 1 to 3 rings that are fused together i.e. a fused ring aryl or linked covalently. A fused ring aryl refers to multiple rings fused together wherein at least one of the fused rings is an aryl ring. The term heteroaryl refers to aryl groups or rings that contain at least one heteroatom such as N O or S wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms are optionally oxidized and the nitrogen atom s are optionally quaternized. Thus the term heteroaryl includes fused ring heteroaryl groups i.e. multiple rings fused together wherein at least one of the fused rings is a heteroaromatic ring . A 5 6 fused ring heteroarylene refers to two rings fused together wherein one ring has 5 members and the other ring has 6 members and wherein at least one ring is a heteroaryl ring. Likewise a 6 6 fused ring heteroarylene refers to two rings fused together wherein one ring has 6 members and the other ring has 6 members and wherein at least one ring is a heteroaryl ring. And a 6 5 fused ring heteroarylene refers to two rings fused together wherein one ring has 6 members and the other ring has 5 members and wherein at least one ring is a heteroaryl ring. A heteroaryl group can be attached to the remainder of the molecule through a carbon or heteroatom. Non limiting examples of aryl and heteroaryl groups include phenyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl 4 biphenyl 1 pyrrolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 3 pyrazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 2 phenyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 2 furyl 3 furyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 2 pyrimidyl 4 pyrimidyl 5 benzothiazolyl purinyl 2 benzimidazolyl 5 indolyl 1 isoquinolyl 5 isoquinolyl 2 quinoxalinyl 5 quinoxalinyl 3 quinolyl and 6 quinolyl. Substituents for each of the above noted aryl and heteroaryl ring systems are selected from the group of acceptable substituents described below. An arylene and a heteroarylene alone or as part of another substituent mean a divalent radical derived from an aryl and heteroaryl respectively.

A fused ring heterocycloalkyl aryl is an aryl fused to a heterocycloalkyl. A fused ring heterocycloalkyl heteroaryl is a heteroaryl fused to a heterocycloalkyl. A fused ring heterocycloalkyl cycloalkyl is a heterocycloalkyl fused to a cycloalkyl. A fused ring heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl is a heterocycloalkyl fused to another heterocycloalkyl. Fused ring heterocycloalkyl aryl fused ring heterocycloalkyl heteroaryl fused ring heterocycloalkyl cycloalkyl or fused ring heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl may each independently be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more of the substitutents described herein.

The term alkylsulfonyl as used herein means a moiety having the formula S O R where R is a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group as defined above. R may have a specified number of carbons e.g. C Calkylsulfonyl .

Each of the above terms e.g. alkyl heteroalkyl aryl and heteroaryl includes both substituted and unsubstituted forms of the indicated radical. Preferred substituents for each type of radical are provided below.

Substituents for the alkyl and heteroalkyl radicals including those groups often referred to as alkylene alkenyl heteroalkylene heteroalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and heterocycloalkenyl can be one or more of a variety of groups selected from but not limited to OR O NR N OR NR R SR halogen SiR R R OC O R C O R COR CONR R OC O NR R NR C O R NR C O NR R NR C O R NR C NR R R NR NR C NR R NR S O R S O R S O NR R NRSOR NR NR R ONR R NR C O NR NR R CN NO in a number ranging from zero to 2 m 1 where m is the total number of carbon atoms in such radical. R R R R and R each preferably independently refer to hydrogen substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. aryl substituted with 1 3 halogens substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl substituted or unsubstituted alkyl alkoxy or thioalkoxy groups or arylalkyl groups. When a compound of the invention includes more than one R group for example each of the R groups is independently selected as are each R R R and R group when more than one of these groups is present. When R and R are attached to the same nitrogen atom they can be combined with the nitrogen atom to form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered ring. For example NR R includes but is not limited to 1 pyrrolidinyl and 4 morpholinyl. From the above discussion of substituents one of skill in the art will understand that the term alkyl is meant to include groups including carbon atoms bound to groups other than hydrogen groups such as haloalkyl e.g. CFand CHCF and acyl e.g. C O CH C O CF C O CHOCH and the like .

Similar to the substituents described for the alkyl radical substituents for the aryl and heteroaryl groups are varied and are selected from for example OR NR R SR halogen SiR R R OC O R C O R COR CONR R OC O NR R NR C O R NR C O NR R NR C O R NR C NR R R NR NR C NR R NR S O R S O R S O NR R NRSOR NR NR R ONR R NR C O NR NR R CN NO R N CH Ph fluoro C C alkoxy and fluoro C C alkyl in a number ranging from zero to the total number of open valences on the aromatic ring system and where R R R and R are preferably independently selected from hydrogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. When a compound of the invention includes more than one R group for example each of the R groups is independently selected as are each R R R and R groups when more than one of these groups is present.

Two or more substituents may optionally be joined to form aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl groups. Such so called ring forming substituents are typically though not necessarily found attached to a cyclic base structure. In one embodiment the ring forming substituents are attached to adjacent members of the base structure. For example two ring forming substituents attached to adjacent members of a cyclic base structure create a fused ring structure. In another embodiment the ring forming substituents are attached to a single member of the base structure. For example two ring forming substituents attached to a single member of a cyclic base structure create a spirocyclic structure. In yet another embodiment the ring forming substituents are attached to non adjacent members of the base structure.

Two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of the aryl or heteroaryl ring may optionally form a ring of the formula T C O CRR U wherein T and U are independently NR O CRR or a single bond and q is an integer of from 0 to 3. Alternatively two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of the aryl or heteroaryl ring may optionally be replaced with a substituent of the formula A CH B wherein A and B are independently CRR O NR S S O S O S O NR or a single bond and r is an integer of from 1 to 4. One of the single bonds of the new ring so formed may optionally be replaced with a double bond. Alternatively two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of the aryl or heteroaryl ring may optionally be replaced with a substituent of the formula CRR X C R R where s and d are independently integers of from 0 to 3 and X is O NR S S O S O or S O NR . The substituents R R R and R are preferably independently selected from hydrogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.

As used herein the terms heteroatom or ring heteroatom are meant to include oxygen O nitrogen N sulfur S phosphorus P and silicon Si .

A size limited substituent or size limited substituent group as used herein means a group selected from all of the substituents described above for a substituent group wherein each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyl each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkyl and each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 8 membered heterocycloalkyl and each substituted or unsubstituted aryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 6 to 14 membered aryl e.g. 6 membered aryl and each substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 14 membered heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl .

A lower substituent or lower substituent group as used herein means a group selected from all of the substituents described above for a substituent group wherein each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 8 membered heteroalkyl each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkyl and each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and each substituted or unsubstituted aryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 6 to 10 membered aryl e.g. 6 membered aryl and each substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl .

In some embodiments each substituted group described in the compounds herein is substituted with at least one substituent group. More specifically in some embodiments each substituted alkyl substituted heteroalkyl substituted cycloalkyl substituted heterocycloalkyl substituted aryl substituted heteroaryl substituted alkylene substituted heteroalkylene substituted cycloalkylene substituted heterocycloalkylene substituted arylene and or substituted heteroarylene described in the compounds herein are substituted with at least one substituent group. In other embodiments at least one or all of these groups are substituted with at least one size limited substituent group. In other embodiments at least one or all of these groups are substituted with at least one lower substituent group.

In other embodiments of the compounds herein each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl may be a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyl each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkyl and or each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 8 membered heterocycloalkyl and or each substituted or unsubstituted aryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 6 to 14 membered aryl e.g. 6 membered aryl and or each substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 14 membered heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . In some embodiments of the compounds herein each substituted or unsubstituted alkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkylene each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkylene each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkylene and or each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 8 membered heterocycloalkylene and or each substituted or unsubstituted arylene is a substituted or unsubstituted 6 to 14 membered arylene e.g. 6 membered arylene and or each substituted or unsubstituted heteroarylene is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 14 membered heteroarylene e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroarylene .

In some embodiments each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 8 membered heteroalkyl each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkyl and or each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and or each substituted or unsubstituted aryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 6 to 10 membered aryl e.g. 6 membered aryl and or each substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . In some embodiments each substituted or unsubstituted alkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkylene each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 8 membered heteroalkylene each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkylene and or each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkylene and or each substituted or unsubstituted aryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 6 to 10 membered arylene e.g. 6 membered arylene and or each substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroarylene e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroarylene . In some embodiments the compound is a chemical species set forth in the Examples section below.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts is meant to include salts of the active compounds that are prepared with relatively nontoxic acids or bases depending on the particular substituents found on the compounds described herein. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively acidic functionalities base addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired base either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include sodium potassium calcium ammonium organic amino or magnesium salt or a similar salt. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively basic functionalities acid addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired acid either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those derived from inorganic acids like hydrochloric hydrobromic nitric carbonic monohydrogencarbonic phosphoric monohydrogenphosphoric dihydrogenphosphoric sulfuric monohydrogensulfuric hydriodic or phosphorous acids and the like as well as the salts derived from relatively nontoxic organic acids like acetic propionic isobutyric maleic malonic benzoic succinic suberic fumaric lactic mandelic phthalic benzenesulfonic p tolylsulfonic citric tartaric oxalic methanesulfonic and the like. Also included are salts of amino acids such as arginate and the like and salts of organic acids like glucuronic or galactunoric acids and the like see for example Berge et al. Pharmaceutical Salts 1977 66 1 19 . Certain specific compounds of the present invention contain both basic and acidic functionalities that allow the compounds to be converted into either base or acid addition salts.

Thus the compounds of the present invention may exist as salts such as with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. The present invention includes such salts. Examples of such salts include hydrochlorides hydrobromides sulfates methanesulfonates nitrates maleates acetates citrates fumarates tartrates e.g. tartrates tartrates or mixtures thereof including racemic mixtures succinates benzoates and salts with amino acids such as glutamic acid. These salts may be prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art.

The neutral forms of the compounds are preferably regenerated by contacting the salt with a base or acid and isolating the parent compound in the conventional manner. The parent form of the compound differs from the various salt forms in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents.

In addition to salt forms the present invention provides compounds which are in a prodrug form. Prodrugs of the compounds described herein are those compounds that readily undergo chemical changes under physiological conditions to provide the compounds of the present invention. Additionally prodrugs can be converted to the compounds of the present invention by chemical or biochemical methods in an ex vivo environment. For example prodrugs can be slowly converted to the compounds of the present invention when placed in a transdermal patch reservoir with a suitable enzyme or chemical reagent.

Certain compounds of the present invention can exist in unsolvated forms as well as solvated forms including hydrated forms. In general the solvated forms are equivalent to unsolvated forms and are encompassed within the scope of the present invention. Certain compounds of the present invention may exist in multiple crystalline or amorphous forms. In general all physical forms are equivalent for the uses contemplated by the present invention and are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.

As used herein the term salt refers to acid or base salts of the compounds used in the methods of the present invention. Illustrative examples of acceptable salts are mineral acid hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid and the like salts organic acid acetic acid propionic acid glutamic acid citric acid and the like salts quaternary ammonium methyl iodide ethyl iodide and the like salts.

Certain compounds of the present invention possess asymmetric carbon atoms optical or chiral centers or double bonds the enantiomers racemates diastereomers tautomers geometric isomers stereoisometric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S or as D or L for amino acids and individual isomers are encompassed within the scope of the present invention. The compounds of the present invention do not include those which are known in art to be too unstable to synthesize and or isolate. The present invention is meant to include compounds in racemic and optically pure forms. Optically active R and S or D and L isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques. When the compounds described herein contain olefinic bonds or other centers of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers.

As used herein the term isomers refers to compounds having the same number and kind of atoms and hence the same molecular weight but differing in respect to the structural arrangement or configuration of the atoms.

The term tautomer as used herein refers to one of two or more structural isomers which exist in equilibrium and which are readily converted from one isomeric form to another.

It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that certain compounds of this invention may exist in tautomeric forms all such tautomeric forms of the compounds being within the scope of the invention.

Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include all stereochemical forms of the structure i.e. the R and S configurations for each asymmetric center. Therefore single stereochemical isomers as well as enantiomeric and diastereomeric mixtures of the present compounds are within the scope of the invention.

Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include compounds which differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For example compounds having the present structures except for the replacement of a hydrogen by a deuterium or tritium or the replacement of a carbon by C or C enriched carbon are within the scope of this invention.

The compounds of the present invention may also contain unnatural proportions of atomic isotopes at one or more of the atoms that constitute such compounds. For example the compounds may be radiolabeled with radioactive isotopes such as for example tritium H iodine 125 I or carbon 14 C . All isotopic variations of the compounds of the present invention whether radioactive or not are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

The symbol denotes the point of attachment of a chemical moiety to the remainder of a molecule or chemical formula.

It should be noted that throughout the application that alternatives are written in Markush groups for example each amino acid position that contains more than one possible amino acid. It is specifically contemplated that each member of the Markush group should be considered separately thereby comprising another embodiment and the Markush group is not to be read as a single unit.

A combinatorial chemical library is a collection of diverse chemical compounds generated by either chemical synthesis or biological synthesis by combining a number of chemical building blocks such as reagents. For example a linear combinatorial chemical library such as a polypeptide library is formed by combining a set of chemical building blocks amino acids in every possible way for a given compound length i.e. the number of amino acids in a polypeptide compound . Millions of chemical compounds can be synthesized through such combinatorial mixing of chemical building blocks.

Preparation and screening of combinatorial chemical libraries is well known to those of skill in the art. Such combinatorial chemical libraries include but are not limited to peptide libraries see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 010 175 Furka 37 487 493 1991 and Houghton et al. 354 84 88 1991 . Other chemistries for generating chemical diversity libraries can also be used. Such chemistries include but are not limited to peptoids e.g. PCT Publication No. WO 91 19735 encoded peptides e.g. PCT Publication WO 93 20242 random bio oligomers e.g. PCT Publication No. WO 92 00091 benzodiazepines e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 288 514 diversomers such as hydantoins benzodiazepines and dipeptides Hobbs et al. 90 6909 6913 1993 vinylogous polypeptides Hagihara et al. 114 6568 1992 nonpeptidal peptidomimetics with glucose scaffolding Hirschmann et al. 114 9217 9218 1992 analogous organic syntheses of small compound libraries Chen et al. 116 2661 1994 oligocarbamates Cho et al. 261 1303 1993 and or peptidyl phosphonates Campbell et al. 59 658 1994 nucleic acid libraries see Ausubel Berger and Sambrook all supra peptide nucleic acid libraries see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 539 083 antibody libraries see e.g. Vaughn et al. 14 3 309 314 1996 and PCT US96 10287 carbohydrate libraries see e.g. Liang et al. 274 1520 1522 1996 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 593 853 . The methods above may be used to synthesize single molecular species.

The terms a or an as used in herein means one or more. In addition the phrase substituted with a n as used herein means the specified group may be substituted with one or more of any or all of the named substituents. For example where a group such as an alkyl or heteroaryl group is substituted with an unsubstituted C Calkyl or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyl the group may contain one or more unsubstituted C Calkyls and or one or more unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyls. Moreover where a moiety is substituted with an R substituent the group may be referred to as R substituted. Where a moiety is R substituted the moiety is substituted with at least one R substituent and each R substituent is optionally different.

Description of compounds of the present invention are limited by principles of chemical bonding known to those skilled in the art. Accordingly where a group may be substituted by one or more of a number of substituents such substitutions are selected so as to comply with principles of chemical bonding and to give compounds which are not inherently unstable and or would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art as likely to be unstable under ambient conditions such as aqueous neutral and several known physiological conditions. For example a heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl is attached to the remainder of the molecule via a ring heteroatom in compliance with principles of chemical bonding known to those skilled in the art thereby avoiding inherently unstable compounds.

The terms treating or treatment refers to any indicia of success in the treatment or amelioration of an injury disease pathology or condition including any objective or subjective parameter such as abatement remission diminishing of symptoms or making the injury pathology or condition more tolerable to the patient slowing in the rate of degeneration or decline making the final point of degeneration less debilitating improving a patient s physical or mental well being. The treatment or amelioration of symptoms can be based on objective or subjective parameters including the results of a physical examination neuropsychiatric exams and or a psychiatric evaluation. For example the certain methods presented herein successfully treat cancer by decreasing the incidence of cancer and or causing remission of cancer. The term treating and conjugations thereof include prevention of an injury pathology condition or disease.

An effective amount is an amount sufficient to accomplish a stated purpose e.g. achieve the effect for which it is administered treat a disease reduce enzyme activity reduce one or more symptoms of a disease or condition reduce kinase activity in a cell reduce the activity of RET Raf Src and S6K kinase in a cell reduce the activity of RET Raf Src and S6K but not mTOR in a cell reduce the activity levels or function of AXL reduce the activity levels or function of GAS6 . An example of an effective amount is an amount sufficient to contribute to the treatment prevention or reduction of a symptom or symptoms of a disease which could also be referred to as a therapeutically effective amount. A reduction of a symptom or symptoms and grammatical equivalents of this phrase means decreasing of the severity or frequency of the symptom s or elimination of the symptom s . A prophylactically effective amount of a drug is an amount of a drug that when administered to a subject will have the intended prophylactic effect e.g. preventing or delaying the onset or reoccurrence of an injury disease pathology or condition or reducing the likelihood of the onset or reoccurrence of an injury disease pathology or condition or their symptoms. The full prophylactic effect does not necessarily occur by administration of one dose and may occur only after administration of a series of doses. Thus a prophylactically effective amount may be administered in one or more administrations. An activity decreasing amount as used herein refers to an amount of a composition e.g. antagonist required to decrease the activity of an enzyme relative to the absence of the composition e.g. antagonist . A function disrupting amount as used herein refers to the amount of antagonist required to disrupt the function of an enzyme or protein relative to the absence of the antagonist. The exact amounts will depend on the purpose of the treatment and will be ascertainable by one skilled in the art using known techniques see e.g. Lieberman vols. 1 3 1992 Lloyd 1999 Pickar 1999 and 20th Edition 2003 Gennaro Ed. Lippincott Williams Wilkins .

 Control or control experiment is used in accordance with its plain ordinary meaning and refers to an experiment in which the subjects or reagents of the experiment are treated as in a parallel experiment except for omission of a procedure reagent or variable of the experiment. In some instances the control is used as a standard of comparison in evaluating experimental effects.

 Contacting is used in accordance with its plain ordinary meaning and refers to the process of allowing at least two distinct species e.g. chemical compounds including biomolecules or cells to become sufficiently proximal to react interact or physically touch. It should be appreciated however that the resulting reaction product can be produced directly from a reaction between the added reagents or from an intermediate from one or more of the added reagents which can be produced in the reaction mixture.

The term contacting may include allowing two species to react interact or physically touch wherein the two species may be a compound as described herein and a protein or enzyme e.g. kinase . In some embodiments the protein may be RET kinase. In some embodiments the protein may be Raf kinase. In some embodiments the protein may be Src kinase. In some embodiments the protein may be S6K kinase. In some embodiments the protein may be AXL kinase. In some embodiments the protein may be GAS6. In some embodiments contacting includes allowing a compound described herein to interact with a protein or enzyme that is involved in a signaling pathway.

As defined herein the term inhibition inhibit inhibiting and the like in reference to a protein inhibitor interaction means negatively affecting e.g. decreasing the activity or function of the protein e.g. decreasing the phosphorylation of another protein by a kinase relative to the activity or function of the protein e.g. kinase in the absence of the inhibitor e.g. kinase inhibitor or kinase inhibitor compound . In some embodiments inhibition refers to reduction of a disease or symptoms of disease. In some embodiments inhibition refers to a reduction in the activity of a signal transduction pathway or signaling pathway e.g. reduction of a pathway involving kinases pathways involving Ret Raf Src S6K AXL and or GAS6 . Thus inhibition includes at least in part partially or totally blocking stimulation decreasing preventing or delaying activation or inactivating desensitizing or down regulating signal transduction or enzymatic activity or the amount of a protein e.g. RET Raf Src S6K EGFR MEK AXL and or GAS6 . In some embodiments inhibition refers to inhibition of a kinase such as Ret e.g. NM 020630.4 or NP 065681.1 B Raf e.g. NM 004333.4 or NP 004324.2 Raf1 e.g. NM 002880.3 or NP 002871.1 A Raf e.g. NM 001654.3 or NP 001645.1 Src e.g. NM 005417.3 or NP 005408.1 S6K1 which may also be called S6K kinase e.g. NM 003161.2 or NP 003152.1 S6K2 e.g. NM 003952.2 or NP 003943.2 mTOR NM 004958.3 or NP 004949.1 or AXL NM 001699.4 AAH32229.1 or NP 001690.2 . As used herein the term Raf refers to a Raf kinase family member including for example A Raf B Raf and or C Raf a.k.a. Raf1 . In some embodiments the Raf is a human Raf kinase. In some embodiments inhibition refers to inhibition of a protein protein interaction e.g. GAS6 binding to AXL . In some embodiments inhibition refers to inhibition of a protein function e.g. GAS6 AAA58494.1 interactions with another protein or receptor binding .

The term modulator refers to a composition that increases or decreases the level of a target molecule or the function of a target molecule e.g. a target may be a kinase and the function may be to phosphorylate a molecule . In some embodiments a kinase modulator is a compound that reduces the activity of a kinase in a cell. A kinase modulator may reduce the activity of one kinase but cause an increase in enzyme activity of another kinase that results in a reduction or increase respectively of cell growth and proliferation. In some embodiments a kinase disease modulator is a compound that reduces the severity of one or more symptoms of a disease associated with the kinase e.g. cancer . A RET modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of RET kinase. A Raf modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of Raf kinase s . A B Raf modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of B Raf kinase. A Src modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of Src kinase. A S6K modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of S6K kinase. A MEN2 modulator is a compound that decreases the symptoms of multiple endocrine neoplasia 2. A S6K2 modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of S6K2 kinase. An mTOR modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity level of mTOR kinase. An AXL modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of AXL kinase. A GAS6 modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the level or function e.g. activation or deactivation of a signaling pathway through binding to a receptor or interacting with another protein of GAS6. An EGFR modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of EGFR kinase. A MEK modulator is a compound that increases or decreases the activity or level of MEK kinase e.g. MEK1 MEK2 MEK1 and MEK2 .

 Patient or subject in need thereof refers to a living organism suffering from or prone to a disease or condition that can be treated by administration of a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein. Non limiting examples include humans other mammals bovines rats mice dogs monkeys goat sheep cows deer and other non mammalian animals. In some embodiments a patient is human.

 Disease or condition refer to a state of being or health status of a patient or subject capable of being treated with the compounds or methods provided herein. In some embodiments the disease is a disease related to e.g. caused by an activated or overactive kinase or aberrant kinase activity e.g. multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 multiple endocrine neoplasia 2A multiple endocrine neoplasia 2B familial medullary thyroid cancer medullary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytoma primary hyperparathyroidism intestinal ganglioneuromatosis parathyroid hyperplasia or mucosal neuromas . In some embodiments the disease is a disease related to e.g. caused by an activated or overactive kinase e.g. AXL or aberrant kinase e.g. AXL activity e.g. cancer lung cancer non small cell lung cancer erlotinib resistant cancer erlotinib resistant lung cancer erlotinib resistant non small cell lung cancer gefitinib resistant cancer gefitinib resistant lung cancer gefitinib resistant non small cell lung cancer breast cancer pancreatic cancer metastatic non small cell lung cancer metastatic pancreatic cancer erlotinib resistant pancreatic cancer chronic myelogenous leukemia glioblastoma melanoma osteosarcoma erythroid and megakaryocytic leukemias uterine cancer colon cancer prostate cancer thyroid cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer gastrointestinal stromal tumors renal cell carcinoma acute myeloid leukemia or gastric cancer . In some embodiments the disease is a disease related to e.g. caused by an activated or overactive kinase e.g. AXL or aberrant kinase e.g. AXL activity e.g. cancer lung cancer non small cell lung cancer erlotinib resistant cancer erlotinib resistant lung cancer erlotinib resistant non small cell lung cancer gefitinib resistant cancer gefitinib resistant lung cancer gefitinib resistant non small cell lung cancer breast cancer pancreatic cancer metastatic non small cell lung cancer metastatic pancreatic cancer or erlotinib resistant pancreatic cancer. Examples of diseases disorders or conditions include but are not limited to multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 multiple endocrine neoplasia 2A multiple endocrine neoplasia 2B familial medullary thyroid cancer also known as familial medullary thyroid carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytoma primary hyperparathyroidism intestinal ganglioneuromatosis parathyroid hyperplasia mucosal neuromas melanoma colorectal cancer papillary thyroid cancer breast cancer hepatocellular carcinoma lung cancer Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Huntington s Disease frontotemporal dementia Bovine spongiform encephalopathy BSE Creutzfeldt Jakob disease Gerstmann Str ussler Scheinker syndrome kuru prion disease neurodegenerative diseases frontotemporal dementia cancer cardiovascular disease hypertension Syndrome X depression anxiety glaucoma human immunodeficiency virus HIV or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome AIDS neurodegeneration Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease cognition enhancement Cushing s Syndrome Addison s Disease osteoporosis frailty muscle frailty inflammatory diseases osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis asthma and rhinitis adrenal function related ailments viral infection immunodeficiency immunomodulation autoimmune diseases allergies wound healing compulsive behavior multi drug resistance addiction psychosis anorexia cachexia post traumatic stress syndrome post surgical bone fracture medical catabolism major psychotic depression mild cognitive impairment psychosis dementia hyperglycemia stress disorders antipsychotic induced weight gain delirium cognitive impairment in depressed patients cognitive deterioration in individuals with Down s syndrome psychosis associated with interferon alpha therapy chronic pain pain associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease postpartum psychosis postpartum depression neurological disorders in premature infants migraine headaches stroke aneurysm brain aneurysm cerebral aneurysm brain attack cerebrovascular accident ischemia thrombosis arterial embolism hemorrhage transient ischemic attack anemia embolism systemic hypoperfusion venous thrombosis arthritis reperfusion injury skin diseases or conditions acne acne vulgaris keratosis pilaris acute promyelocytic leukemia baldness acne rosacea harlequin ichthyosis xeroderma pigmentosum keratoses neuroblastoma fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive eczema rosacea sun damage wrinkles or cosmetic conditions. In some instances disease or condition refer to cancer. In some further instances cancer refers to human cancers and carcinomas sarcomas adenocarcinomas lymphomas leukemias etc. including solid and lymphoid cancers kidney breast lung bladder colon ovarian prostate pancreas stomach brain head and neck skin uterine testicular glioma esophagus and liver cancer including hepatocarcinoma lymphoma including B acute lymphoblastic lymphoma non Hodgkin s lymphomas e.g. Burkitt s Small Cell and Large Cell lymphomas Hodgkin s lymphoma leukemia including AML ALL and CML or multiple myeloma.

As used herein the term neurodegenerative disease refers to a disease or condition in which the function of a subject s nervous system becomes impaired. Examples of neurodegenerative diseases that may be treated with a compound or method described herein include Alexander s disease Alper s disease Alzheimer s disease Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Ataxia telangiectasia Batten disease also known as Spielmeyer Vogt Sjogren Batten disease Bovine spongiform encephalopathy BSE Canavan disease Cockayne syndrome Corticobasal degeneration Creutzfeldt Jakob disease frontotemporal dementia Gerstmann Str ussler Scheinker syndrome Huntington s disease HIV associated dementia Kennedy s disease Krabbe s disease kuru Lewy body dementia Machado Joseph disease Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 Multiple sclerosis Multiple System Atrophy Narcolepsy Neuroborreliosis Parkinson s disease Pelizaeus Merzbacher Disease Pick s disease Primary lateral sclerosis Prion diseases Refsum s disease Sandhoff s disease Schilder s disease Subacute combined degeneration of spinal cord secondary to Pernicious Anaemia Schizophrenia Spinocerebellar ataxia multiple types with varying characteristics Spinal muscular atrophy Steele Richardson Olszewski disease or Tabes dorsalis.

As used herein the term autoimmune disease refers to a disease or condition in which a subject s immune system irregularly responds to one or more components e.g. biomolecule protein cell tissue organ etc. of the subject. In some embodiments an autoimmune disease is a condition in which the subject s immune system irregularly reacts to one or more components of the subject as if such components were not self. Exemplary autoimmune diseases that may be treated with a compound or method provided herein include Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis ADEM Acute necrotizing hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis Addison s disease Agammaglobulinemia Asthma Allergic asthma Allergic rhinitis Alopecia greata Amyloidosis Ankylosing spondylitis Anti GBM Anti TBM nephritis Antiphospholipid syndrome APS Arthritis Autoimmune aplastic anemia Autoimmune dysautonomia Autoimmune hepatitis Autoimmune hyperlipidemia Autoimmune immunodeficiency Autoimmune inner ear disease AIED Autoimmune myocarditis Autoimmune pancreatitis Autoimmune retinopathy Autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura ATP Autoimmune thyroid disease Axonal neuronal neuropathies Balo disease Behcet s disease Bullous pemphigoid Cardiomyopathy Castleman disease Celiac sprue Chagas disease Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy CIDP Chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis CRMO Churg Strauss syndrome Cicatricial pemphigoid benign mucosal pemphigoid Crohn s disease Cogans syndrome Cold agglutinin disease Congenital heart block Coxsackie myocarditis CREST disease Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia Demyelinating neuropathies Dermatitis herpetiformis Dermatomyositis Devic s disease neuromyelitis optica Discoid lupus Dressler s syndrome Endometriosis Eosinophilic fasciitis Erythema nodosum Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis Evans syndrome Fibrosing alveolitis Giant cell arteritis temporal arteritis Glomerulonephritis Goodpasture s syndrome Graves disease Grave s ophthalmopathy Guillain Barre syndrome Hashimoto s encephalitis Hashimoto s thyroiditis Hemolytic anemia Henoch Schonlein purpura Herpes gestationis Hypogammaglobulinemia Ichthyosis Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP IgA nephropathy IgG4 related sclerosing disease Immunoregulatory lipoproteins Inclusion body myositis Inflammatory bowel disease Insulin dependent diabetes type 1 Interstitial cystitis Juvenile arthritis Juvenile diabetes Kawasaki syndrome Lambert Eaton syndrome Leukocytoclastic vasculitis Lichen planus Lichen sclerosis Ligneous conjunctivitis Linear IgA disease LAD Lupus SLE Lyme disease chronic Meniere s disease Microscopic polyangiitis Mixed connective tissue disease MCTD Mooren s ulcer Mucha Habermann disease Multiple sclerosis Myasthenia gravis Myositis Narcolepsy Neuromyelitis optica Devic s Neutropenia Ocular cicatricial pemphigoid Optic neuritis Palindromic rheumatism PANDAS Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcus Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH Parry Romberg syndrome Parsonnage Turner syndrome Pars planitis peripheral uveitis Pemphigus Peripheral neuropathy Perivenous encephalomyelitis Pernicious anemia POEMS syndrome Polyarteritis nodosa Type I II III autoimmune polyglandular syndromes Polymyalgia rheumatic Polymyositis Postmyocardial infarction syndrome Postpericardiotomy syndrome Progesterone dermatitis Primary biliary cirrhosis Primary sclerosing cholangitis Psoriasis Psoriatic arthritis Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Pyoderma gangrenous Pure red cell aplasia Raynauds phenomenon Reflex sympathetic dystrophy Reiter s syndrome Relapsing polychondritis Restless legs syndrome Retroperitoneal Fibrosis Rheumatic fever Rheumatoid arthritis Sarcoidosis Schmidt syndrome Scleritis Scleroderma Sjogren s syndrome Sperm testicular autoimmunity Stiff person syndrome Subacute bacterial endocarditis SBE Susac s syndrome Sympathetic ophthalmia Takayasu s arteritis Temporal arteritis Giant cell arteritis Thrombocytopenic purpura TTP Tolosa Hunt syndrome Transverse myelitis Ulcerative colitis Undifferentiated connective tissue disease UCTD Uveitis Vasculitis Vesiculobullous dermatosis Vitiligo or Wegener s granulomatosis.

As used herein the term inflammatory disease refers to any disease characterized by abnormal inflammation. Exemplary inflammatory diseases that may be treated with a compound or method provided herein include arthritis rheumatoid arthritis psoriatic arthritis juvenile idiopathic arthritis multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE myasthenia gravis juvenile onset diabetes diabetes mellitus type 1 Guillain Barre syndrome Hashimoto s encephalitis Hashimoto s thyroiditis ankylosing spondylitis psoriasis Sjogren s syndrome vasculitis glomerulonephritis auto immune thyroiditis Behcet s disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis bullous pemphigoid sarcoidosis ichthyosis Graves ophthalmopathy inflammatory bowel disease Addison s disease Vitiligo asthma or allergic asthma.

As used herein the term cardiovascular disease refers to a disease or condition affecting the heart or blood vessels. In embodiments cardiovascular disease includes diseases caused by or exacerbated by atherosclerosis. Exemplary cardiovascular diseases that may be treated with a compound or method provided herein include Alcoholic cardiomyopathy Coronary artery disease Congenital heart disease Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy Restrictive cardiomyopathy Noncompaction Cardiomyopathy diabetes mellitus hypertension hyperhomocysteinemia hypercholesterolemia Atherosclerosis Ischemic heart disease Heart failure Cor pulmonale Hypertensive heart disease Left ventricular hypertrophy Coronary heart disease Congestive heart failure Hypertensive cardiomyopathy Cardiac arrhythmias Inflammatory heart disease Endocarditis Inflammatory cardiomegaly Myocarditis Valvular heart disease stroke or myocardial infarction. In some embodiments treating a cardiovascular disease includes treating a condition or symptom caused by a cardiovascular disease. A non limiting example of such a treatment is treating complications due to a myocardial infarction after the myocardial infarction has occurred.

As used herein the term cancer refers to all types of cancer neoplasm or malignant tumors found in mammals including leukemia carcinomas and sarcomas. Exemplary cancers that may be treated with a compound or method provided herein include cancer of the thyroid endocrine system brain breast cervix colon head neck liver kidney lung non small cell lung melanoma mesothelioma ovary pancreas sarcoma stomach uterus or Medulloblastoma. Additional examples include Hodgkin s Disease Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma multiple myeloma neuroblastoma glioma glioblastoma multiforme ovarian cancer rhabdomyosarcoma primary thrombocytosis primary macroglobulinemia primary brain tumors malignant pancreatic insulanoma malignant carcinoid urinary bladder cancer premalignant skin lesions testicular cancer lymphomas thyroid cancer neuroblastoma esophageal cancer genitourinary tract cancer malignant hypercalcemia endometrial cancer adrenal cortical cancer neoplasms of the endocrine or exocrine pancreas medullary thyroid cancer medullary thyroid carcinoma melanoma colorectal cancer papillary thyroid cancer hepatocellular carcinoma or prostate cancer.

The term leukemia refers broadly to progressive malignant diseases of the blood forming organs and is generally characterized by a distorted proliferation and development of leukocytes and their precursors in the blood and bone marrow. Leukemia is generally clinically classified on the basis of 1 the duration and character of the disease acute or chronic 2 the type of cell involved myeloid myelogenous lymphoid lymphogenous or monocytic and 3 the increase or non increase in the number abnormal cells in the blood leukemic or aleukemic subleukemic . Exemplary leukemias that may be treated with a compound or method provided herein include for example acute nonlymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia acute granulocytic leukemia chronic granulocytic leukemia acute promyelocytic leukemia adult T cell leukemia aleukemic leukemia a leukocythemic leukemia basophylic leukemia blast cell leukemia bovine leukemia chronic myelocytic leukemia leukemia cutis embryonal leukemia eosinophilic leukemia Gross leukemia hairy cell leukemia hemoblastic leukemia hemocytoblastic leukemia histiocytic leukemia stem cell leukemia acute monocytic leukemia leukopenic leukemia lymphatic leukemia lymphoblastic leukemia lymphocytic leukemia lymphogenous leukemia lymphoid leukemia lymphosarcoma cell leukemia mast cell leukemia megakaryocytic leukemia micromyeloblastic leukemia monocytic leukemia myeloblastic leukemia myelocytic leukemia myeloid granulocytic leukemia myelomonocytic leukemia Naegeli leukemia plasma cell leukemia multiple myeloma plasmacytic leukemia promyelocytic leukemia Rieder cell leukemia Schilling s leukemia stem cell leukemia subleukemic leukemia or undifferentiated cell leukemia.

The term sarcoma generally refers to a tumor which is made up of a substance like the embryonic connective tissue and is generally composed of closely packed cells embedded in a fibrillar or homogeneous substance. Sarcomas that may be treated with a compound or method provided herein include a chondrosarcoma fibrosarcoma lymphosarcoma melanosarcoma myxosarcoma osteosarcoma Abemethy s sarcoma adipose sarcoma liposarcoma alveolar soft part sarcoma ameloblastic sarcoma botryoid sarcoma chloroma sarcoma chorio carcinoma embryonal sarcoma Wilms tumor sarcoma endometrial sarcoma stromal sarcoma Ewing s sarcoma fascial sarcoma fibroblastic sarcoma giant cell sarcoma granulocytic sarcoma Hodgkin s sarcoma idiopathic multiple pigmented hemorrhagic sarcoma immunoblastic sarcoma of B cells lymphoma immunoblastic sarcoma of T cells Jensen s sarcoma Kaposi s sarcoma Kupffer cell sarcoma angiosarcoma leukosarcoma malignant mesenchymoma sarcoma parosteal sarcoma reticulocytic sarcoma Rous sarcoma serocystic sarcoma synovial sarcoma or telangiectaltic sarcoma.

The term melanoma is taken to mean a tumor arising from the melanocytic system of the skin and other organs. Melanomas that may be treated with a compound or method provided herein include for example acral lentiginous melanoma amelanotic melanoma benign juvenile melanoma Cloudman s melanoma S91 melanoma Harding Passey melanoma juvenile melanoma lentigo maligna melanoma malignant melanoma nodular melanoma subungal melanoma or superficial spreading melanoma.

The term carcinoma refers to a malignant new growth made up of epithelial cells tending to infiltrate the surrounding tissues and give rise to metastases. Exemplary carcinomas that may be treated with a compound or method provided herein include for example medullary thyroid carcinoma familial medullary thyroid carcinoma acinar carcinoma acinous carcinoma adenocystic carcinoma adenoid cystic carcinoma carcinoma adenomatosum carcinoma of adrenal cortex alveolar carcinoma alveolar cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma carcinoma basocellulare basaloid carcinoma basosquamous cell carcinoma bronchioalveolar carcinoma bronchiolar carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma cerebriform carcinoma cholangiocellular carcinoma chorionic carcinoma colloid carcinoma comedo carcinoma corpus carcinoma cribriform carcinoma carcinoma en cuirasse carcinoma cutaneum cylindrical carcinoma cylindrical cell carcinoma duct carcinoma carcinoma durum embryonal carcinoma encephaloid carcinoma epiermoid carcinoma carcinoma epithelial adenoides exophytic carcinoma carcinoma ex ulcere carcinoma fibrosum gelatiniforni carcinoma gelatinous carcinoma giant cell carcinoma carcinoma gigantocellulare glandular carcinoma granulosa cell carcinoma hair matrix carcinoma hematoid carcinoma hepatocellular carcinoma Hurthle cell carcinoma hyaline carcinoma hypernephroid carcinoma infantile embryonal carcinoma carcinoma in situ intraepidermal carcinoma intraepithelial carcinoma Krompecher s carcinoma Kulchitzky cell carcinoma large cell carcinoma lenticular carcinoma carcinoma lenticulare lipomatous carcinoma lymphoepithelial carcinoma carcinoma medullare medullary carcinoma melanotic carcinoma carcinoma molle mucinous carcinoma carcinoma muciparum carcinoma mucocellulare mucoepidermoid carcinoma carcinoma mucosum mucous carcinoma carcinoma myxomatodes nasopharyngeal carcinoma oat cell carcinoma carcinoma ossificans osteoid carcinoma papillary carcinoma periportal carcinoma preinvasive carcinoma prickle cell carcinoma pultaceous carcinoma renal cell carcinoma of kidney reserve cell carcinoma carcinoma sarcomatodes schneiderian carcinoma scirrhous carcinoma carcinoma scroti signet ring cell carcinoma carcinoma simplex small cell carcinoma solanoid carcinoma spheroidal cell carcinoma spindle cell carcinoma carcinoma spongiosum squamous carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma string carcinoma carcinoma telangiectaticum carcinoma telangiectodes transitional cell carcinoma carcinoma tuberosum tuberous carcinoma verrucous carcinoma or carcinoma villosum.

 MEN2 associated cancer also referred to herein as MEN2 related cancer refers to a cancer caused by a MEN2 syndrome. MEN2A and MEN2B are subtypes of MEN2 which are well known in the art. A cancer associated with aberrant Ret activity also referred to herein as Ret related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant Ret activity e.g. a mutated Ret gene Ret fusion for example CCDC6 RET fusion or KIF5B RET fusion . Ret related cancers may include medullary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytoma primary hyperparathyroidism intestinal ganglioneuromatosis parathyroid hyperplasia or mucosal neuromas. A cancer associated with aberrant Raf activity also referred to herein as Raf related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant Raf activity e.g. a mutated Raf gene or aberrant amount of Raf protein . A cancer associated with aberrant B Raf activity also referred to herein as B Raf related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant B Raf activity e.g. a mutated B Raf gene or aberrant amount of B Raf protein . Raf related cancers may include lung cancer melanoma colorectal cancer or papillary thyroid cancer. A cancer associated with aberrant Src activity also referred to herein as Src related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant Src activity e.g. a mutated Src gene . Src related cancers may include breast cancer. A cancer associated with aberrant S6K kinase activity also referred to herein as S6K kinase related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant S6K kinase activity e.g. a mutated S6K gene . S6K kinase related cancers may include hepatocellular carcinoma or lung cancer. A cancer associated with aberrant AXL kinase activity also referred to herein as AXL kinase related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant AXL kinase activity e.g. a mutated AXL gene or aberrant amount of AXL protein or aberrant amount of AXL protein ligand such as GAS6 . AXL kinase related cancers may include lung cancer non small cell lung cancer EGFR targeted therapy or therapeutic resistant cancer e.g. lung cancer non small cell lung cancer erlotinib resistant lung cancer gefitinib resistant lung cancer pancreatic cancer metastatic cancer chronic myelogenous leukemia glioblastoma melanoma osteosarcoma erythroid and megakaryocytic leukemias uterine cancer colon cancer prostate cancer thyroid cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer gastrointestinal stromal tumors renal cell carcinoma acute myeloid leukemia gastric cancer or breast cancer. A cancer associated with aberrant Raf kinase activity and S6K kinase activity also referred to herein as Raf and S6K kinase related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant Raf kinase activity and aberrant S6K kinase activity. A cancer associated with aberrant B Raf kinase activity and S6K kinase activity also referred to herein as B Raf and S6K kinase related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant B Raf kinase activity and aberrant S6K kinase activity. Raf and S6K kinase related cancer may include lung cancer. A cancer associated with aberrant S6K2 kinase activity also referred to herein as S6K2 kinase related cancer is a cancer caused by aberrant S6K2 kinase activity e.g. a mutated S6K2 gene . Other cancers that are associated with aberrant activity of one or more of Ret Raf B Raf Src S6K AXL or mTOR kinase are well known in the art and determining such cancers are within the skill of a person of skill in the art.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refer to a substance that aids the administration of an active agent to and absorption by a subject and can be included in the compositions of the present invention without causing a significant adverse toxicological effect on the patient. Non limiting examples of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include water NaCl normal saline solutions lactated Ringer s normal sucrose normal glucose binders fillers disintegrants lubricants coatings sweeteners flavors salt solutions such as Ringer s solution alcohols oils gelatins carbohydrates such as lactose amylose or starch fatty acid esters hydroxymethylcellulose polyvinyl pyrrolidine and colors and the like. Such preparations can be sterilized and if desired mixed with auxiliary agents such as lubricants preservatives stabilizers wetting agents emulsifiers salts for influencing osmotic pressure buffers coloring and or aromatic substances and the like that do not deleteriously react with the compounds of the invention. One of skill in the art will recognize that other pharmaceutical excipients are useful in the present invention.

The term preparation is intended to include the formulation of the active compound with encapsulating material as a carrier providing a capsule in which the active component with or without other carriers is surrounded by a carrier which is thus in association with it. Similarly cachets and lozenges are included. Tablets powders capsules pills cachets and lozenges can be used as solid dosage forms suitable for oral administration.

As used herein the term administering means oral administration parenteral administration administration as a suppository topical contact intravenous intraperitoneal intramuscular intralesional intrathecal intranasal or subcutaneous administration or the implantation of a slow release device e.g. a mini osmotic pump to a subject. Administration is by any route including parenteral and transmucosal e.g. buccal sublingual palatal gingival nasal vaginal rectal or transdermal . Parenteral administration includes e.g. intravenous intramuscular intra arteriole intradermal subcutaneous intraperitoneal intraventricular and intracranial. Other modes of delivery include but are not limited to the use of liposomal formulations intravenous infusion transdermal patches etc. By co administer it is meant that a composition described herein is administered at the same time just prior to or just after the administration of one or more additional therapies for example cancer therapies such as chemotherapy hormonal therapy radiotherapy or immunotherapy. The compounds of the invention can be administered alone or can be coadministered to the patient. Coadministration is meant to include simultaneous or sequential administration of the compounds individually or in combination more than one compound . Thus the preparations can also be combined when desired with other active substances e.g. to reduce metabolic degradation anti cancer agents . The compositions of the present invention can be delivered by transdermally by a topical route formulated as applicator sticks solutions suspensions emulsions gels creams ointments pastes jellies paints powders and aerosols.

The term administer or administering a kinase inhibitor means administering a compound that inhibits the activity or level e.g. amount of one or more kinase s e.g. a Ret kinase inhibitor Raf kinase inhibitor B Raf kinase inhibitor Src kinase inhibitor S6K kinase inhibitor mTOR kinase inhibitor S6K2 kinase inhibitor AXL kinase inhibitor or a multi kinase inhibitor such as a Ret Raf Src S6K kinase inhibitor or a Ret Raf Src S6K mTOR kinase inhibitor or a Ret B Raf Src S6K kinase inhibitor to a subject and without being limited by mechanism allowing sufficient time for the kinase inhibitor to reduce the activity of one or more kinase s or for the kinase inhibitor to reduce one or more symptoms of a disease e.g. cancer wherein the kinase inhibitor may arrest the cell cycle slow the cell cycle reduce DNA replication reduce cell replication reduce cell growth reduce metastasis overcome resistance to a separate treatment or compound e.g. an anti cancer agent EGFR targeted therapy erlotinib gefitinib induce or increase apoptosis or cause cell death .

The term associated or associated with as used herein to describe a disease e.g. a protein associated disease a cancer associated with aberrant Ret activity Raf associated cancer B Raf associated cancer Src associated cancer S6K kinase associated cancer S6K2 kinase associated cancer AXL kinase associated cancer EGFR associated cancer or disease MEK associated cancer or disease means that the disease e.g. cancer is caused by or a symptom of the disease is caused by what is described as disease associated or what is described as associated with the disease. For example a cancer associated with aberrant Ret activity may be a cancer that results entirely or partially from aberrant Ret kinase activity or a cancer wherein a particular symptom of the disease is caused entirely or partially by aberrant Ret activity. As used herein what is described as being associated with a disease if a causative agent could be a target for treatment of the disease. For example a cancer associated with aberrant Ret activity or a Ret associated cancer may be treated with a Ret modulator or Ret inhibitor in the instance where increased Ret activity causes the cancer. For example a cancer associated with MEN2 may be a cancer that a subject with MEN2 is at higher risk of developing as compared to a subject without MEN2.

The tem aberrant as used herein refers to different from normal. When used to described enzymatic activity aberrant refers to activity that is greater or less than a normal control or the average of normal non diseased control samples. Aberrant activity may refer to an amount of activity that results in a disease wherein returning the aberrant activity to a normal or non disease associated amount e.g. by administering a compound or using a method as described herein results in reduction of the disease or one or more disease symptoms.

 Anti cancer agent is used in accordance with its plain ordinary meaning and refers to a composition e.g. compound drug antagonist inhibitor modulator having antineoplastic properties or the ability to inhibit the growth or proliferation of cells. In some embodiments an anti cancer agent is a chemotherapeutic. In some embodiments an anti cancer agent is an agent identified herein having utility in methods of treating cancer e.g. lung cancer non small cell lung cancer breast cancer pancreatic cancer a MEN2 associated cancer an AXL kinase associated cancer . In some embodiments an anti cancer agent is an agent identified herein having utility in methods of treating cancer. In some embodiments an anti cancer agent is an agent approved by the FDA or similar regulatory agency of a country other than the USA for treating cancer. Examples of anti cancer agents include but are not limited to MEK e.g. MEK1 MEK2 or MEK1 and MEK2 inhibitors e.g. XL518 CI 1040 PD035901 selumetinib AZD6244 GSK1120212 trametinib GDC 0973 ARRY 162 ARRY 300 AZD8330 PD0325901 U0126 PD98059 TAK 733 PD318088 AS703026 BAY 869766 alkylating agents e.g. cyclophosphamide ifosfamide chlorambucil busulfan melphalan mechlorethamine uramustine thiotepa nitrosoureas nitrogen mustards e.g. mechlorethamine cyclophosphamide chlorambucil meiphalan ethylenimine and methylmelamines e.g. hexamethlymelamine thiotepa alkyl sulfonates e.g. busulfan nitrosoureas e.g. carmustine lomusitne semustine streptozocin triazenes decarbazine anti metabolites e.g. 5 azathioprine leucovorin capecitabine fludarabine gemcitabine pemetrexed raltitrexed folic acid analog e.g. methotrexate or pyrimidine analogs e.g. fluorouracil floxuridine Cytarabine purine analogs e.g. mercaptopurine thioguanine pentostatin etc. plant alkaloids e.g. vincristine vinblastine vinorelbine vindesine podophyllotoxin paclitaxel docetaxel etc. topoisomerase inhibitors e.g. irinotecan topotecan amsacrine etoposide VP16 etoposide phosphate teniposide etc. antitumor antibiotics e.g. doxorubicin adriamycin daunorubicin epirubicin actinomycin bleomycin mitomycin mitoxantrone plicamycin etc. platinum based compounds e.g. cisplatin oxaloplatin carboplatin anthracenedione e.g. mitoxantrone substituted urea e.g. hydroxyurea methyl hydrazine derivative e.g. procarbazine adrenocortical suppressant e.g. mitotane aminoglutethimide epipodophyllotoxins e.g. etoposide antibiotics e.g. daunorubicin doxorubicin bleomycin enzymes e.g. L asparaginase inhibitors of mitogen activated protein kinase signaling e.g. U0126 PD98059 PD184352 PD0325901 ARRY 142886 SB239063 SP600125 BAY 43 9006 wortmannin or LY294002 Syk inhibitors mTOR inhibitors antibodies e.g. rituxan gossyphol genasense polyphenol E Chlorofusin all trans retinoic acid ATRA bryostatin tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis inducing ligand TRAIL 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine all trans retinoic acid doxorubicin vincristine etoposide gemcitabine imatinib Gleevec geldanamycin 17 N Allylamino 17 Demethoxygeldanamycin 17 AAG flavopiridol LY294002 bortezomib trastuzumab BAY 11 7082 PKC412 PD184352 20 epi 1 25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 5 ethynyluracil abiraterone aclarubicin acylfulvene adecypenol adozelesin aldesleukin ALL TK antagonists altretamine ambamustine amidox amifostine aminolevulinic acid amrubicin amsacrine anagrelide anastrozole andrographolide angiogenesis inhibitors antagonist D antagonist G antarelix anti dorsalizing morphogenetic protein 1 antiandrogen prostatic carcinoma antiestrogen antineoplaston antisense oligonucleotides aphidicolin glycinate apoptosis gene modulators apoptosis regulators apurinic acid ara CDP DL PTBA arginine deaminase asulacrine atamestane atrimustine axinastatin 1 axinastatin 2 axinastatin 3 azasetron azatoxin azatyrosine baccatin III derivatives balanol batimastat BCR ABL antagonists benzochlorins benzoylstaurosporine beta lactam derivatives beta alethine betaclamycin B betulinic acid bFGF inhibitor bicalutamide bisantrene bisaziridinylspermine bisnafide bistratene A bizelesin breflate bropirimine budotitane buthionine sulfoximine calcipotriol calphostin C camptothecin derivatives canarypox IL 2 capecitabine carboxamide amino triazole carboxyamidotriazole CaRest M3 CARN 700 cartilage derived inhibitor carzelesin casein kinase inhibitors ICOS castanospermine cecropin B cetrorelix chlorins chloroquinoxaline sulfonamide cicaprost cis porphyrin cladribine clomifene analogues clotrimazole collismycin A collismycin B combretastatin A4 combretastatin analogue conagenin crambescidin 816 crisnatol cryptophycin 8 cryptophycin A derivatives curacin A cyclopentanthraquinones cycloplatam cypemycin cytarabine ocfosfate cytolytic factor cytostatin dacliximab decitabine dehydrodidemnin B deslorelin dexamethasone dexifosfamide dexrazoxane dexverapamil diaziquone didemnin B didox diethylnorspermine dihydro 5 azacytidine 9 dioxamycin diphenyl spiromustine docosanol dolasetron doxifluridine droloxifene dronabinol duocarmycin SA ebselen ecomustine edelfosine edrecolomab eflornithine elemene emitefur epirubicin epristeride estramustine analogue estrogen agonists estrogen antagonists etanidazole etoposide phosphate exemestane fadrozole fazarabine fenretinide filgrastim finasteride flavopiridol flezelastine fluasterone fludarabine fluorodaunorunicin hydrochloride forfenimex formestane fostriecin fotemustine gadolinium texaphyrin gallium nitrate galocitabine ganirelix gelatinase inhibitors gemcitabine glutathione inhibitors hepsulfam heregulin hexamethylene bisacetamide hypericin ibandronic acid idarubicin idoxifene idramantone ilmofosine ilomastat imidazoacridones imiquimod immunostimulant peptides insulin like growth factor 1 receptor inhibitor interferon agonists interferons interleukins iobenguane iododoxorubicin ipomeanol 4 iroplact irsogladine isobengazole isohomohalicondrin B itasetron jasplakinolide kahalalide F lamellarin N triacetate lanreotide leinamycin lenograstim lentinan sulfate leptolstatin letrozole leukemia inhibiting factor leukocyte alpha interferon leuprolide estrogen progesterone leuprorelin levamisole liarozole linear polyamine analogue lipophilic disaccharide peptide lipophilic platinum compounds lissoclinamide 7 lobaplatin lombricine lometrexol lonidamine losoxantrone lovastatin loxoribine lurtotecan lutetium texaphyrin lysofylline lytic peptides maitansine mannostatin A marimastat masoprocol maspin matrilysin inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors menogaril merbarone meterelin methioninase metoclopramide MIF inhibitor mifepristone miltefosine mirimostim mismatched double stranded RNA mitoguazone mitolactol mitomycin analogues mitonafide mitotoxin fibroblast growth factor saporin mitoxantrone mofarotene molgramostim monoclonal antibody human chorionic gonadotrophin monophosphoryl lipid A myobacterium cell wall sk mopidamol multiple drug resistance gene inhibitor multiple tumor suppressor 1 based therapy mustard anticancer agent mycaperoxide B mycobacterial cell wall extract myriaporone N acetyldinaline N substituted benzamides nafarelin nagrestip naloxone pentazocine napavin naphterpin nartograstim nedaplatin nemorubicin neridronic acid neutral endopeptidase nilutamide nisamycin nitric oxide modulators nitroxide antioxidant nitrullyn O6 benzylguanine octreotide okicenone oligonucleotides onapristone ondansetron ondansetron oracin oral cytokine inducer ormaplatin osaterone oxaliplatin oxaunomycin palauamine palmitoylrhizoxin pamidronic acid panaxytriol panomifene parabactin pazelliptine pegaspargase peldesine pentosan polysulfate sodium pentostatin pentrozole perflubron perfosfamide perillyl alcohol phenazinomycin phenylacetate phosphatase inhibitors picibanil pilocarpine hydrochloride pirarubicin piritrexim placetin A placetin B plasminogen activator inhibitor platinum complex platinum compounds platinum triamine complex porfimer sodium porfiromycin prednisone propyl bis acridone prostaglandin J2 proteasome inhibitors protein A based immune modulator protein kinase C inhibitor protein kinase C inhibitors microalgal protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitors purpurins pyrazoloacridine pyridoxylated hemoglobin polyoxyethylerie conjugate raf antagonists raltitrexed ramosetron ras farnesyl protein transferase inhibitors ras inhibitors ras GAP inhibitor retelliptine demethylated rhenium Re 186 etidronate rhizoxin ribozymes RII retinamide rogletimide rohitukine romurtide roquinimex rubiginone B1 ruboxyl safingol saintopin SarCNU sarcophytol A sargramostim Sdi 1 mimetics semustine senescence derived inhibitor 1 sense oligonucleotides signal transduction inhibitors signal transduction modulators single chain antigen binding protein sizofuran sobuzoxane sodium borocaptate sodium phenylacetate solverol somatomedin binding protein sonermin sparfosic acid spicamycin D spiromustine splenopentin spongistatin 1 squalamine stem cell inhibitor stem cell division inhibitors stipiamide stromelysin inhibitors sulfinosine superactive vasoactive intestinal peptide antagonist suradista suramin swainsonine synthetic glycosaminoglycans tallimustine tamoxifen methiodide tauromustine tazarotene tecogalan sodium tegafur tellurapyrylium telomerase inhibitors temoporfin temozolomide teniposide tetrachlorodecaoxide tetrazomine thaliblastine thiocoraline thrombopoietin thrombopoietin mimetic thymalfasin thymopoietin receptor agonist thymotrinan thyroid stimulating hormone tin ethyl etiopurpurin tirapazamine titanocene bichloride topsentin toremifene totipotent stem cell factor translation inhibitors tretinoin triacetyluridine triciribine trimetrexate triptorelin tropisetron turosteride tyrosine kinase inhibitors tyrphostins UBC inhibitors ubenimex urogenital sinus derived growth inhibitory factor urokinase receptor antagonists vapreotide variolin B vector system erythrocyte gene therapy velaresol veramine verdins verteporfin vinorelbine vinxaltine vitaxin vorozole zanoterone zeniplatin zilascorb zinostatin stimalamer Adriamycin Dactinomycin Bleomycin Vinblastine Cisplatin acivicin aclarubicin acodazole hydrochloride acronine adozelesin aldesleukin altretamine ambomycin ametantrone acetate aminoglutethimide amsacrine anastrozole anthramycin asparaginase asperlin azacitidine azetepa azotomycin batimastat benzodepa bicalutamide bisantrene hydrochloride bisnafide dimesylate bizelesin bleomycin sulfate brequinar sodium bropirimine busulfan cactinomycin calusterone caracemide carbetimer carboplatin carmustine carubicin hydrochloride carzelesin cedefingol chlorambucil cirolemycin cladribine crisnatol mesylate cyclophosphamide cytarabine dacarbazine daunorubicin hydrochloride decitabine dexormaplatin dezaguanine dezaguanine mesylate diaziquone doxorubicin doxorubicin hydrochloride droloxifene droloxifene citrate dromostanolone propionate duazomycin edatrexate eflornithine hydrochloride elsamitrucin enloplatin enpromate epipropidine epirubicin hydrochloride erbulozole esorubicin hydrochloride estramustine estramustine phosphate sodium etanidazole etoposide etoposide phosphate etoprine fadrozole hydrochloride fazarabine fenretinide floxuridine fludarabine phosphate fluorouracil fluorocitabine fosquidone fostriecin sodium gemcitabine gemcitabine hydrochloride hydroxyurea idarubicin hydrochloride ifosfamide iimofosine interleukin I1 including recombinant interleukin II or rlL.sub.2 interferon alfa 2a interferon alfa 2b interferon alfa n1 interferon alfa n3 interferon beta 1a interferon gamma 1b iproplatin irinotecan hydrochloride lanreotide acetate letrozole leuprolide acetate liarozole hydrochloride lometrexol sodium lomustine losoxantrone hydrochloride masoprocol maytansine mechlorethamine hydrochloride megestrol acetate melengestrol acetate melphalan menogaril mercaptopurine methotrexate methotrexate sodium metoprine meturedepa mitindomide mitocarcin mitocromin mitogillin mitomalcin mitomycin mitosper mitotane mitoxantrone hydrochloride mycophenolic acid nocodazoie nogalamycin ormaplatin oxisuran pegaspargase peliomycin pentamustine peplomycin sulfate perfosfamide pipobroman piposulfan piroxantrone hydrochloride plicamycin plomestane porfimer sodium porfiromycin prednimustine procarbazine hydrochloride puromycin puromycin hydrochloride pyrazofurin riboprine rogletimide safingol safingol hydrochloride semustine simtrazene sparfosate sodium sparsomycin spirogermanium hydrochloride spiromustine spiroplatin streptonigrin streptozocin sulofenur talisomycin tecogalan sodium tegafur teloxantrone hydrochloride temoporfin teniposide teroxirone testolactone thiamiprine thioguanine thiotepa tiazofurin tirapazamine toremifene citrate trestolone acetate triciribine phosphate trimetrexate trimetrexate glucuronate triptorelin tubulozole hydrochloride uracil mustard uredepa vapreotide verteporfin vinblastine sulfate vincristine sulfate vindesine vindesine sulfate vinepidine sulfate vinglycinate sulfate vinleurosine sulfate vinorelbine tartrate vinrosidine sulfate vinzolidine sulfate vorozole zeniplatin zinostatin zorubicin hydrochloride agents that arrest cells in the G2 M phases and or modulate the formation or stability of microtubules e.g. Taxol i.e. paclitaxel Taxotere compounds comprising the taxane skeleton Erbulozole i.e. R 55104 Dolastatin 10 i.e. DLS 10 and NSC 376128 Mivobulin isethionate i.e. as CI 980 Vincristine NSC 639829 Discodermolide i.e. as NVP XX A 296 ABT 751 Abbott i.e. E 7010 Altorhyrtins e.g. Altorhyrtin A and Altorhyrtin C Spongistatins e.g. Spongistatin 1 Spongistatin 2 Spongistatin 3 Spongistatin 4 Spongistatin 5 Spongistatin 6 Spongistatin 7 Spongistatin 8 and Spongistatin 9 Cemadotin hydrochloride i.e. LU 103793 and NSC D 669356 Epothilones e.g. Epothilone A Epothilone B Epothilone C i.e. desoxyepothilone A or dEpoA Epothilone D i.e. KOS 862 dEpoB and desoxyepothilone B Epothilone E Epothilone F Epothilone B N oxide Epothilone A N oxide 16 aza epothilone B 21 aminoepothilone B i.e. BMS 310705 21 hydroxyepothilone D i.e. Desoxyepothilone F and dEpoF 26 fluoroepothilone Auristatin PE i.e. NSC 654663 Soblidotin i.e. TZT 1027 LS 4559 P Pharmacia i.e. LS 4577 LS 4578 Pharmacia i.e. LS 477 P LS 4477 Pharmacia LS 4559 Pharmacia RPR 112378 Aventis Vincristine sulfate DZ 3358 Daiichi FR 182877 Fujisawa i.e. WS 9885B GS 164 Takeda GS 198 Takeda KAR 2 Hungarian Academy of Sciences BSF 223651 BASF i.e. ILX 651 and LU 223651 SAH 49960 Lilly Novartis SDZ 268970 Lilly Novartis AM 97 Armad Kyowa Hakko AM 132 Armad AM 138 Armad Kyowa Hakko IDN 5005 Indena Cryptophycin 52 i.e. LY 355703 AC 7739 Ajinomoto i.e. AVE 8063A and CS 39.HCl AC 7700 Ajinomoto i.e. AVE 8062 AVE 8062A CS 39 L Ser.HCl and RPR 258062A Vitilevuamide Tubulysin A Canadensol Centaureidin i.e. NSC 106969 T 138067 Tularik i.e. T 67 TL 138067 and TI 138067 COBRA 1 Parker Hughes Institute i.e. DDE 261 and WHI 261 H10 Kansas State University H16 Kansas State University Oncocidin A1 i.e. BTO 956 and DIME DDE 313 Parker Hughes Institute Fijianolide B Laulimalide SPA 2 Parker Hughes Institute SPA 1 Parker Hughes Institute i.e. SPIKET P 3 IAABU Cytoskeleton Mt. Sinai School of Medicine i.e. MF 569 Narcosine also known as NSC 5366 Nascapine D 24851 Asta Medica A 105972 Abbott Hemiasterlin 3 BAABU Cytoskeleton Mt. Sinai School of Medicine i.e. MF 191 TMPN Arizona State University Vanadocene acetylacetonate T 138026 Tularik Monsatrol lnanocine i.e. NSC 698666 3 IAABE Cytoskeleton Mt. Sinai School of Medicine A 204197 Abbott T 607 Tuiarik i.e. T 900607 RPR 115781 Aventis Eleutherobins such as Desmethyleleutherobin Desaetyleleutherobin lsoeleutherobin A and Z Eleutherobin Caribaeoside Caribaeolin Halichondrin B D 64131 Asta Medica D 68144 Asta Medica Diazonamide A A 293620 Abbott NPI 2350 Nereus Taccalonolide A TUB 245 Aventis A 259754 Abbott Diozostatin Phenylahistin i.e. NSCL 96F037 D 68838 Asta Medica D 68836 Asta Medica Myoseverin B D 43411 Zentaris i.e. D 81862 A 289099 Abbott A 318315 Abbott HTI 286 i.e. SPA 110 trifluoroacetate salt Wyeth D 82317 Zentaris D 82318 Zentaris SC 12983 NCl Resverastatin phosphate sodium BPR OY 007 National Health Research Institutes and SSR 250411 Sanofi steroids e.g. dexamethasone finasteride aromatase inhibitors gonadotropin releasing hormone agonists GnRH such as goserelin or leuprolide adrenocorticosteroids e.g. prednisone progestins e.g. hydroxyprogesterone caproate megestrol acetate medroxyprogesterone acetate estrogens e.g. diethlystilbestrol ethinyl estradiol antiestrogen e.g. tamoxifen androgens e.g. testosterone propionate fluoxymesterone antiandrogen e.g. flutamide immunostimulants e.g. Bacillus Calmette Gu rin BCG levamisole interleukin 2 alpha interferon etc. monoclonal antibodies e.g. anti CD20 anti HER2 anti CD52 anti HLA DR and anti VEGF monoclonal antibodies immunotoxins e.g. anti CD33 monoclonal antibody calicheamicin conjugate anti CD22 monoclonal antibody pseudomonas exotoxin conjugate etc. radioimmunotherapy e.g. anti CD20 monoclonal antibody conjugated to In Y or I etc. triptolide homoharringtonine dactinomycin doxorubicin epirubicin topotecan itraconazole vindesine cerivastatin vincristine deoxyadenosine sertraline pitavastatin irinotecan clofazimine 5 nonyloxytryptamine vemurafenib dabrafenib erlotinib gefitinib EGFR inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR targeted therapy or therapeutic e.g. gefitinib Iressa erlotinib Tarceva cetuximab Erbitux lapatinib Tykerb panitumumab Vectibix vandetanib Caprelsa afatinib BIBW2992 CI 1033 canertinib neratinib HKI 272 CP 724714 TAK 285 AST 1306 ARRY334543 ARRY 380 AG 1478 dacomitinib PF299804 OSI 420 desmethyl erlotinib AZD8931 AEE788 pelitinib EKB 569 CUDC 101 WZ8040 WZ4002 WZ3146 AG 490 XL647 PD153035 BMS 599626 sorafenib imatinib sunitinib dasatinib or the like.

 Chemotherapeutic or chemotherapeutic agent is used in accordance with its plain ordinary meaning and refers to a chemical composition or compound having antineoplastic properties or the ability to inhibit the growth or proliferation of cells.

 EGFR targeted therapy or EGFR targeted therapeutic is used in accordance with its plain ordinary meaning and refers to a composition e.g. compound protein nucleic acid antibody small molecule useful in treating a disease wherein the compound modulates the activity level or function of EGFR. In some embodiments the composition contacts EGFR. In some embodiments the composition preferentially binds EGFR. In some embodiments the composition specifically binds EGFR. In some embodiments the composition is an EGFR modulator. In some embodiments the composition is an EGFR inhibitor. In some embodiments the disease is an EGFR associated disease. In some embodiments the composition is selected from the group consisting of gefitinib Iressa erlotinib Tarceva cetuximab Erbitux lapatinib Tykerb panitumumab Vectibix vandetanib Caprelsa afatinib BIBW2992 CI 1033 canertinib neratinib HKI 272 CP 724714 TAK 285 AST 1306 ARRY334543 ARRY 380 AG 1478 dacomitinib PF299804 OSI 420 desmethyl erlotinib AZD8931 AEE788 pelitinib EKB 569 CUDC 101 WZ8040 WZ4002 WZ3146 AG 490 XL647 PD153035 and BMS 599626. In some embodiments the composition is selected from the group consisting of gefitinib Iressa erlotinib Tarceva cetuximab Erbitux lapatinib Tykerb panitumumab Vectibix vandetanib Caprelsa . In some embodiments the composition is gefitinib Iressa . In some embodiments the composition is erlotinib Tarceva . In some embodiments the composition is cetuximab Erbitux . In some embodiments the composition is lapatinib Tykerb panitumumab Vectibix . In some embodiments the composition is vandetanib Caprelsa .

 MEK targeted therapy or MEK targeted therapeutic is used in accordance with its plain ordinary meaning and refers to a composition e.g. compound protein nucleic acid antibody small molecule useful in treating a disease wherein the compound modulates the activity level or function of MEK. In some embodiments the composition contacts MEK. In some embodiments the composition preferentially binds MEK. In some embodiments the composition specifically binds MEK. In some embodiments the composition is an MEK modulator. In some embodiments the composition is an MEK inhibitor. In some embodiments the disease is a MEK associated disease. In some embodiments a MEK targeted therapy modulates the activity level or function of MEK1. In some embodiments a MEK targeted therapy modulates the activity level or function of MEK2. In some embodiments a MEK targeted therapy modulates the activity level or function of MEK1 and MEK2. In some embodiments a MEK inhibitor includes a composition selected from the group consisting of XL518 CI 1040 PD035901 selumetinib AZD6244 GSK1120212 trametinib GDC 0973 ARRY 162 ARRY 300 AZD8330 PD0325901 PD325901 U0126 PD98059 TAK 733 PD318088 AS703026 and BAY 869766. In some embodiments the composition is selumetinib AZD6244.

Rand Rare independently hydrogen or substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. Ris independently substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. Ris independently hydrogen halogen CX CN OH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH C O CH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF or substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. Ris independently hydrogen halogen CX CN OH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH C O CH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF or OCHF. Lis independently a bond or substituted or unsubstituted alkylene. The symbol z1 is independently an integer from 0 to 4. The symbol z2 is independently an integer from 0 to 5. The symbols Xand Xare independently F Cl Br or I.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV Ris hydrogen. In some embodiments Ris substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris methyl. In some embodiments Ris ethyl. In some embodiments Ris n propyl. In some embodiments Ris isopropyl. In some embodiments Ris n butyl. In some embodiments Ris t butyl. In some embodiments Ris n pentyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV Ris hydrogen. In some embodiments Ris substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris methyl. In some embodiments Ris ethyl. In some embodiments Ris n propyl. In some embodiments Ris isopropyl. In some embodiments Ris n butyl. In some embodiments Ris t butyl. In some embodiments Ris n pentyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV Lis a bond. In some embodiments Lis substituted or unsubstituted alkylene. In some embodiments Lis unsubstituted alkylene. In some embodiments Lis unsubstituted C C alkylene. In some embodiments Lis unsubstituted C C alkylene. In some embodiments Lis methylene. In some embodiments Lis ethylene. In some embodiments Lis n propylene. In some embodiments Lis isopropylene. In some embodiments Lis n butylene. In some embodiments Lis t butylene. In some embodiments Lis n pentylene. In some embodiments Lis substituted alkylene. In some embodiments Lis substituted C C alkylene. In some embodiments Lis substituted C C alkylene.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV Ris substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris methyl. In some embodiments Ris ethyl. In some embodiments Ris n propyl. In some embodiments Ris isopropyl. In some embodiments Ris n butyl. In some embodiments Ris t butyl. In some embodiments Ris n pentyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula III or IV Ris independently hydrogen halogen CX CN OH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH C O CH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF or substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris independently halogen CN CX NO NO C O H or COH. In some embodiments Ris halogen. In some embodiments Ris CN. In some embodiments Ris NO. In some embodiments Ris NO. In some embodiments Ris C O H. In some embodiments Ris COH. In some embodiments Ris halogen or CX. In some embodiments Ris CX. In some embodiments X is F. In some embodiments X is Cl. In some embodiments X is Br. In some embodiments X is I. In some embodiments Ris F. In some embodiments Ris Cl. In some embodiments Ris Br. In some embodiments Ris I. In some embodiments Ris substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris methyl. In some embodiments Ris ethyl. In some embodiments Ris n propyl. In some embodiments Ris isopropyl. In some embodiments Ris n butyl. In some embodiments Ris t butyl. In some embodiments Ris n pentyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV Ris independently hydrogen halogen CX CN OH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH C O CH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF or substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris independently halogen CN CX NO NO C O H or COH. In some embodiments Ris halogen. In some embodiments Ris CN. In some embodiments Ris NO. In some embodiments Ris NO. In some embodiments Ris C O H. In some embodiments Ris COH. In some embodiments Ris halogen or CX. In some embodiments Ris CX. In some embodiments Xis F i.e. Ris CF . In some embodiments Xis Cl. In some embodiments Xis Br. In some embodiments Xis I. In some embodiments Ris F. In some embodiments Ris Cl. In some embodiments Ris Br. In some embodiments Ris I. In some embodiments Ris substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris methyl. In some embodiments Ris ethyl. In some embodiments Ris n propyl. In some embodiments Ris isopropyl. In some embodiments Ris n butyl. In some embodiments Ris t butyl. In some embodiments Ris n pentyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments Ris substituted C C alkyl.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV Ris independently hydrogen halogen CX CN OH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH C O CH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF or OCHF. In some embodiments Ris halogen CN CX NO NO C O H or COH. In some embodiments Ris halogen. In some embodiments Ris CN. In some embodiments Ris NO. In some embodiments Ris NO. In some embodiments Ris C O H. In some embodiments Ris COH. In some embodiments Ris halogen or CX. In some embodiments Ris CX. In some embodiments Xis F i.e. Ris CF . In some embodiments Xis Cl. In some embodiments Xis Br. In some embodiments Xis I. In some embodiments Ris F. In some embodiments Ris Cl. In some embodiments Ris Br. In some embodiments Ris I.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV y is 1 to 4. In some embodiments y is 1 to 3. In some embodiments y is 1 to 2. In some embodiments y is 0 to 4. In some embodiments y is 0 to 3. In some embodiments y is 0 to 2. In some embodiments y is 0 to 1. In some embodiments y is 0. In some embodiments y is 1. In some embodiments y is 2. In some embodiments y is 3. In some embodiments y is 4.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV z1 is 1 to 4. In some embodiments z1 is 1 to 3. In some embodiments z1 is 1 to 2. In some embodiments z1 is 0 to 4. In some embodiments z1 is 0 to 3. In some embodiments z1 is 0 to 2. In some embodiments z1 is 0 to 1. In some embodiments z1 is 0. In some embodiments z1 is 1. In some embodiments z1 is 2. In some embodiments z1 is 3. In some embodiments z1 is 4.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I II III or IV z2 is 1 to 5. In some embodiments z2 is 1 to 4. In some embodiments z2 is 1 to 3. In some embodiments z2 is 1 to 2. In some embodiments z2 is 0 to 5. In some embodiments z2 is 0 to 4. In some embodiments z2 is 0 to 3. In some embodiments z2 is 0 to 2. In some embodiments z2 is 0 to 1. In some embodiments z2 is 0. In some embodiments z2 is 1. In some embodiments z2 is 2. In some embodiments z2 is 3. In some embodiments z2 is 4. In some embodiments z2 is 5.

In some embodiments where an alkyl or alkylene is substituted the alkyl or alkylene is substituted with a substituent group. In other embodiments where an alkyl or alkylene is substituted the alkyl or alkylene is substituted with a size limited substituent group. In other embodiments where an alkyl or alkylene is substituted the alkyl or alkylene is substituted with a lower substituent group. In other embodiments the alkyl or alkylene is a C Calkyl or C Calkylene e.g. a C Calkyl or C Calkylene .

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I or III or V the compound has a formula selected from the group including formulas 

In the compounds above R R R R R R L X X X y z1 and z2 are as described herein e.g. formula I II III IV V and VI including embodiments . In some embodiments Ris CF. In some embodiments Ris CFor halogen e.g. F . In some embodiments Ris hydrogen or halogen e.g. F . In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare hydrogen. In some embodiments Lis a bond or methylene.

In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula V . In some embodiments of the compound having formula II the compound has the formula VI . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula VII . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula VIII . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula IX . In some embodiments of the compound having formula II the compound has the formula X . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula XI . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula XII . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula XIII . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula XIV . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula XV . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula XVI . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula XVII . In some embodiments of the compound having formula I the compound has the formula XVIII .

In some embodiments a compound as described herein e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof is a Ret modulator. In some embodiments the compound is a Raf modulator. In some embodiments the compound is a B Raf modulator. In some embodiments the compound is a Src modulator. In some embodiments the compound is a S6K kinase modulator. In some embodiments the compound is a S6K2 kinase modulator. In some embodiments the compound is an mTOR modulator. In some embodiments the compound is not an mTOR modulator. In some embodiments the compound is an AXL modulator. In some embodiments the compound is a GAS6 modulator.

In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris hydrogen or R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.

In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris hydrogen or R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris independently hydrogen halogen CF CN OH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH C O CH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF or R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris independently hydrogen halogen CF CN OH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH C O CH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF or R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Ris independently hydrogen halogen CF CN OH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH C O CH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF.

In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis a bond or R substituted or unsubstituted alkylene. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkylene. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkylene. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis R substituted or unsubstituted methylene. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis R substituted or unsubstituted ethylene. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis R substituted or unsubstituted propylene. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis R substituted or unsubstituted n propylene. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis R substituted or unsubstituted 2 propylene. In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein Lis a bond.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl Rsubstituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In some embodiments Ris R substituted or unsubstituted C C alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted C C aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

Ris independently halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.

In some embodiments of the compounds provided herein R R R R R and Rare independently hydrogen halogen oxo CF CN OH NH COOH CONH NO NO C O H SH SOCl SOH SOH SONH NHNH ONH NHC O NHNH NHC O NH NHSOH NHC O H NHC O OH NHOH OCF OCHF unsubstituted C C alkyl unsubstituted 2 to 6 membered heteroalkyl unsubstituted C C cycloalkyl unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl unsubstituted C C aryl or unsubstituted 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl.

In a second aspect is a pharmaceutical composition including a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a compound as described herein also referred to herein as compound of the present invention or active component e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof . In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition further includes an anti cancer agent. In some embodiments the anti cancer agent is an EGFR targeted therapy or therapeutic such as erlotinib or gefitinib. In some embodiments the anti cancer agent is a MEK targeted therapy or therapeutic e.g. PD325901 trametinib .

In a third aspect is a method of treating cancer in a subject in need thereof the method including administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound as described herein e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof . In some embodiments the compound forms part of the pharmaceutical composition provided herein.

In some embodiments of a method of treating cancer the cancer is associated with multiple endocrine neoplasm 2. In some embodiments the cancer is associated with multiple endocrine neoplasm 2A. In some embodiments the cancer is associated with multiple endocrine neoplasm 2B. In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant AXL kinase activity e.g. lung cancer non small cell lung cancer drug resistant lung cancer breast cancer pancreatic cancer metastatic lung breast or pancreatic cancer . In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant GAS6 function e.g. lung cancer non small cell lung cancer drug resistant lung cancer breast cancer pancreatic cancer metastatic lung breast or pancreatic cancer . In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant Ret kinase activity e.g. medullary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytoma primary hyperparathyroidism intestinal ganglioneuromatosis parathyroid hyperplasia familial medullary thyroid cancer or mucosal neuromas . In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant Ret kinase activity e.g. non small cell lung cancer expressing a CCDC6 RET fusion protein non small cell lung cancer expressing a KIF5B RET fusion protein thyroid cancer expressing a CCDC6 RET fusion protein . In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant Raf kinase activity e.g. lung cancer melanoma colorectal cancer or papillary thyroid cancer . In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant B Raf kinase activity e.g. lung cancer melanoma colorectal cancer or papillary thyroid cancer . In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant Src kinase activity e.g. breast cancer . In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant S6K kinase activity e.g. hepatocellular carcinoma or lung cancer . In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant mTOR activity. In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant S6K2 activity. In some embodiments the cancer is associated with aberrant Ret Raf Src and S6K kinase activity. In some embodiments the cancer is familial medullary thyroid cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is medullary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytoma primary hyperparathyroidism intestinal ganglioneuromatosis parathyroid hyperplasia or mucosal neuromas. In some embodiments the cancer is medullary thyroid carcinoma. In some embodiments the cancer is pheochromocytoma. In some embodiments the cancer is primary hyperparathyroidism. In some embodiments the cancer is intestinal ganglioneuromatosis. In some embodiments the cancer is parathyroid hyperplasia. In some embodiments the cancer is mucosal neuromas. In some embodiments the cancer is lung cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is melanoma. In some embodiments the cancer is colorectal cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is papillary thyroid cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is breast cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is hepatocellular carcinoma. In some embodiments the cancer is melanoma colorectal cancer papillary thyroid cancer breast cancer hepatocellular carcinoma or lung cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is metastatic cancer. In some embodiments the cancer has metastasized to a different location from the primary tumor. In some embodiments the cancer is non small cell lung cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is resistant to one or more anti cancer agents such as an EGFR targeted therapy or therapeutic e.g. as described herein . In some embodiments the cancer is erlotinib resistant. In some embodiments the cancer is gefitinib resistant. In some embodiments the cancer is erlotinib resistant lung cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is gefitinib resistant lung cancer. In some embodiments of treating cancer the method further includes administering an effective amount of an anti cancer agent. In some embodiments the anti cancer agent is an EGFR targeted therapy or therapeutic. In some embodiments the anti cancer agent is erlotinib. In some embodiments the anti cancer agent is gefitinib. In some embodiments the anti cancer agent is a MEK targeted therapy or therapeutic. In some embodiments the cancer is non small cell lung cancer expressing CCDC6 RET fusion protein. In some embodiments the cancer is non small cell lung cancer expressing KIF5B RET fusion protein. In some embodiments the cancer is thyroid cancer expressing CCDC6 RET fusion protein. In some embodiments the cancer is thyroid cancer expressing CCDC6 RET fusion protein and the method further includes administering a MEK inhibitor e.g. PD325901 . In some embodiments the cancer is non small cell lung cancer expressing KIF5B RET fusion protein and the method further includes administering a MEK inhibitor e.g. PD325901 . In some embodiments the cancer is non small cell lung cancer expressing CCDC6 RET fusion protein and the method further includes administering a MEK inhibitor e.g. PD325901 . In some embodiments the cancer expresses a RET fusion protein.

In a fourth aspect is a method of reducing the activity of RET kinase Raf kinase Src kinase and S6K kinase the method including contacting a RET kinase a Raf kinase a Src kinase and a S6K kinase with an effective amount of a compound as described herein e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof . In some embodiments Raf kinase is B Raf kinase. In some embodiments the method does not include reducing the activity of mTOR kinase. In some embodiments the compound forms part of the pharmaceutical composition provided herein. In some embodiments the compound is AD57. In some embodiments the compound is AD80. In some embodiments the compound is AD81. In some embodiments the compound is selected from any of the compounds described herein including in any table figure or example.

In a fifth aspect is a method of reducing the activity of AXL kinase the method including contacting an AXL kinase with an effective amount of a compound as described herein e.g. formula I to XVIII including embodiments thereof . In some embodiments of the method of reducing the activity of AXL kinase the compound is AD57. In some embodiments of the method of reducing the activity of AXL kinase the compound is AD80. In some embodiments of the method of reducing the activity of AXL kinase the compound is AD81. In some embodiments of the method of reducing the activity of AXL kinase the compound is selected from any of the compounds described herein including in any table figure or example.

The pharmaceutical compositions include optical isomers diastereomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the modulators disclosed herein. The compound included in the pharmaceutical composition may be covalently attached to a carrier moiety as described above. Alternatively the compound included in the pharmaceutical composition is not covalently linked to a carrier moiety.

The compounds of the invention can be administered alone or can be coadministered to the patient. Coadministration is meant to include simultaneous or sequential administration of the compounds individually or in combination more than one compound . Thus the preparations can also be combined when desired with other active substances e.g. to reduce metabolic degradation anti cancer agents .

The compounds of the present invention can be prepared and administered in a wide variety of oral parenteral and topical dosage forms. Oral preparations include tablets pills powder dragees capsules liquids lozenges cachets gels syrups slurries suspensions etc. suitable for ingestion by the patient. The compounds of the present invention can also be administered by injection that is intravenously intramuscularly intracutaneously subcutaneously intraduodenally or intraperitoneally. Also the compounds described herein can be administered by inhalation for example intranasally. Additionally the compounds of the present invention can be administered transdermally. It is also envisioned that multiple routes of administration e.g. intramuscular oral transdermal can be used to administer the compounds of the invention. Accordingly the present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and one or more compounds of the invention.

For preparing pharmaceutical compositions from the compounds of the present invention pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be either solid or liquid. Solid form preparations include powders tablets pills capsules cachets suppositories and dispersible granules. A solid carrier can be one or more substance that may also act as diluents flavoring agents binders preservatives tablet disintegrating agents or an encapsulating material.

In powders the carrier is a finely divided solid in a mixture with the finely divided active component e.g. a compound provided herein . In tablets the active component e.g. compound provided herein is mixed with the carrier having the necessary binding properties in suitable proportions and compacted in the shape and size desired. The powders and tablets preferably contain from 5 to 70 of the active compound.

Suitable solid excipients include but are not limited to magnesium carbonate magnesium stearate talc pectin dextrin starch tragacanth a low melting wax cocoa butter carbohydrates sugars including but not limited to lactose sucrose mannitol or sorbitol starch from corn wheat rice potato or other plants cellulose such as methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose or sodium carboxymethylcellulose and gums including arabic and tragacanth as well as proteins including but not limited to gelatin and collagen. If desired disintegrating or solubilizing agents may be added such as the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.

Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings such as concentrated sugar solutions which may also contain gum arabic talc polyvinylpyrrolidone carbopol gel polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for product identification or to characterize the quantity of active compound i.e. dosage . Pharmaceutical preparations of the invention can also be used orally using for example push fit capsules made of gelatin as well as soft sealed capsules made of gelatin and a coating such as glycerol or sorbitol.

For preparing suppositories a low melting wax such as a mixture of fatty acid glycerides or cocoa butter is first melted and the active component is dispersed homogeneously therein as by stirring. The molten homogeneous mixture is then poured into convenient sized molds allowed to cool and thereby to solidify.

Liquid form preparations include solutions suspensions and emulsions for example water or water propylene glycol solutions. For parenteral injection liquid preparations can be formulated in solution in aqueous polyethylene glycol solution.

When parenteral application is needed or desired particularly suitable admixtures for the compounds of the invention are injectable sterile solutions preferably oily or aqueous solutions as well as suspensions emulsions or implants including suppositories. In particular carriers for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of dextrose saline pure water ethanol glycerol propylene glycol peanut oil sesame oil polyoxyethylene block polymers and the like. Ampules are convenient unit dosages. The compounds of the invention can also be incorporated into liposomes or administered via transdermal pumps or patches. Pharmaceutical admixtures suitable for use in the present invention are well known to those of skill in the art and are described for example in Pharmaceutical Sciences 17th Ed. Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. and WO 96 05309 the teachings of both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Aqueous solutions suitable for oral use can be prepared by dissolving the active component in water and adding suitable colorants flavors stabilizers and thickening agents as desired. Aqueous suspensions suitable for oral use can be made by dispersing the finely divided active component in water with viscous material such as natural or synthetic gums resins methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethylene oxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitol mono oleate or a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan mono oleate . The aqueous suspension can also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose aspartame or saccharin. Formulations can be adjusted for osmolarity.

Also included are solid form preparations that are intended to be converted shortly before use to liquid form preparations for oral administration. Such liquid forms include solutions suspensions and emulsions. These preparations may contain in addition to the active component colorants flavors stabilizers buffers artificial and natural sweeteners dispersants thickeners solubilizing agents and the like.

Oil suspensions can contain a thickening agent such as beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents can be added to provide a palatable oral preparation such as glycerol sorbitol or sucrose. These formulations can be preserved by the addition of an antioxidant such as ascorbic acid. As an example of an injectable oil vehicle see Minto 281 93 102 1997. The pharmaceutical formulations of the invention can also be in the form of oil in water emulsions. The oily phase can be a vegetable oil or a mineral oil described above or a mixture of these. Suitable emulsifying agents include naturally occurring gums such as gum acacia and gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides such as soybean lecithin esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides such as sorbitan mono oleate and condensation products of these partial esters with ethylene oxide such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan mono oleate. The emulsion can also contain sweetening agents and flavoring agents as in the formulation of syrups and elixirs. Such formulations can also contain a demulcent a preservative or a coloring agent.

The pharmaceutical preparation is preferably in unit dosage form. In such form the preparation is subdivided into unit doses containing appropriate quantities of the active component. The unit dosage form can be a packaged preparation the package containing discrete quantities of preparation such as packeted tablets capsules and powders in vials or ampoules. Also the unit dosage form can be a capsule tablet cachet or lozenge itself or it can be the appropriate number of any of these in packaged form.

The quantity of active component in a unit dose preparation may be varied or adjusted from 0.1 mg to 10000 mg more typically 1.0 mg to 1000 mg most typically 10 mg to 500 mg according to the particular application and the potency of the active component. The composition can if desired also contain other compatible therapeutic agents.

Some compounds may have limited solubility in water and therefore may require a surfactant or other appropriate co solvent in the composition. Such co solvents include Polysorbate 20 60 and 80 Pluronic F 68 F 84 and P 103 cyclodextrin polyoxyl 35 castor oil or other agents known to those skilled in the art. Such co solvents are typically employed at a level between about 0.01 and about 2 by weight.

Viscosity greater than that of simple aqueous solutions may be desirable to decrease variability in dispensing the formulations to decrease physical separation of components of a suspension or emulsion of formulation and or otherwise to improve the formulation. Such viscosity building agents include for example polyvinyl alcohol polyvinyl pyrrolidone methyl cellulose hydroxy propyl methylcellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose carboxymethyl cellulose hydroxy propyl cellulose chondroitin sulfate and salts thereof hyaluronic acid and salts thereof combinations of the foregoing and other agents known to those skilled in the art. Such agents are typically employed at a level between about 0.01 and about 2 by weight. Determination of acceptable amounts of any of the above adjuvants is readily ascertained by one skilled in the art.

The compositions of the present invention may additionally include components to provide sustained release and or comfort. Such components include high molecular weight anionic mucomimetic polymers gelling polysaccharides and finely divided drug carrier substrates. These components are discussed in greater detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 911 920 5 403 841 5 212 162 and 4 861 760. The entire contents of these patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

Pharmaceutical compositions provided by the present invention include compositions wherein the active ingredient is contained in a therapeutically effective amount i.e. in an amount effective to achieve its intended purpose. The actual amount effective for a particular application will depend inter alia on the condition being treated. When administered in methods to treat a disease such compositions will contain an amount of active ingredient effective to achieve the desired result e.g. modulating the activity of a target molecule e g a kinase or kinase s RET Raf B Raf Src S6K kinase or RET Raf Src and S6K kinase or RET B Raf Src and S6K kinase or AXL kinase and or GAS6 and or reducing eliminating or slowing the progression of disease symptoms e.g. cancer growth or metastasis . Determination of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention is well within the capabilities of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure herein.

The dosage and frequency single or multiple doses administered to a mammal can vary depending upon a variety of factors for example whether the mammal suffers from another disease and its route of administration size age sex health body weight body mass index and diet of the recipient nature and extent of symptoms of the disease being treated e.g. multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 multiple endocrine neoplasia 2A multiple endocrine neoplasia 2B familial medullary thyroid cancer medullary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytoma primary hyperparathyroidism intestinal ganglioneuromatosis parathyroid hyperplasia thyroid cancer lung cancer non small cell lung cancer breast cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma AXL associated cancer or mucosal neuromas kind of concurrent treatment complications from the disease being treated or other health related problems. Other therapeutic regimens or agents can be used in conjunction with the methods and compounds of Applicants invention. Adjustment and manipulation of established dosages e.g. frequency and duration are well within the ability of those skilled in the art.

For any compound described herein the therapeutically effective amount can be initially determined from cell culture assays. Target concentrations will be those concentrations of active compound s that are capable of achieving the methods described herein as measured using the methods described herein or known in the art.

As is well known in the art therapeutically effective amounts for use in humans can also be determined from animal models. For example a dose for humans can be formulated to achieve a concentration that has been found to be effective in animals. The dosage in humans can be adjusted by monitoring compounds effectiveness and adjusting the dosage upwards or downwards as described above. Adjusting the dose to achieve maximal efficacy in humans based on the methods described above and other methods is well within the capabilities of the ordinarily skilled artisan.

Dosages may be varied depending upon the requirements of the patient and the compound being employed. The dose administered to a patient in the context of the present invention should be sufficient to effect a beneficial therapeutic response in the patient over time. The size of the dose also will be determined by the existence nature and extent of any adverse side effects. Determination of the proper dosage for a particular situation is within the skill of the practitioner. Generally treatment is initiated with smaller dosages which are less than the optimum dose of the compound. Thereafter the dosage is increased by small increments until the optimum effect under circumstances is reached. In one embodiment the dosage range is 0.001 to 10 w v. In another embodiment the dosage range is 0.1 to 5 w v.

Dosage amounts and intervals can be adjusted individually to provide levels of the administered compound effective for the particular clinical indication being treated. This will provide a therapeutic regimen that is commensurate with the severity of the individual s disease state.

Utilizing the teachings provided herein an effective prophylactic or therapeutic treatment regimen can be planned that does not cause substantial toxicity and yet is effective to treat the clinical symptoms demonstrated by the particular patient. This planning should involve the careful choice of active compound by considering factors such as compound potency relative bioavailability patient body weight presence and severity of adverse side effects preferred mode of administration and the toxicity profile of the selected agent.

The ratio between toxicity and therapeutic effect for a particular compound is its therapeutic index and can be expressed as the ratio between LD the amount of compound lethal in 50 of the population and ED the amount of compound effective in 50 of the population . Compounds that exhibit high therapeutic indices are preferred. Therapeutic index data obtained from cell culture assays and or animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosages for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds preferably lies within a range of plasma concentrations that include the EDwith little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. See e.g. Fingl et al. In TPBT Ch. 1 p. 1 1975. The exact formulation route of administration and dosage can be chosen by the individual physician in view of the patient s condition and the particular method in which the compound is used.

The compositions of the present invention can be delivered by transdermally by a topical route formulated as applicator sticks solutions suspensions emulsions gels creams ointments pastes jellies paints powders and aerosols. For therapeutic applications the compounds or drugs of the present invention can be administered alone or co administered in combination with conventional chemotherapy radiotherapy hormonal therapy and or immunotherapy.

The compositions of the present invention can also be delivered as microspheres for slow release in the body. For example microspheres can be administered via intradermal injection of drug containing microspheres which slowly release subcutaneously see Rao 7 623 645 1995 as biodegradable and injectable gel formulations see e.g. Gao 12 857 863 1995 or as microspheres for oral administration see e.g. Eyles 49 669 674 1997 . Both transdermal and intradermal routes afford constant delivery for weeks or months.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be provided as a salt and can be formed with many acids including but not limited to hydrochloric sulfuric acetic lactic tartaric malic succinic etc. Pharmaceutical compositions described herein may be salts of a compound or composition which are prepared with relatively nontoxic acids or bases depending on the particular substituents found on the compounds described herein. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively acidic functionalities base addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired base either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include sodium potassium calcium ammonium organic amino or magnesium salt or a similar salt. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively basic functionalities acid addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired acid either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those derived from inorganic acids like hydrochloric hydrobromic nitric carbonic monohydrogencarbonic phosphoric monohydrogenphosphoric dihydrogenphosphoric sulfuric monohydrogensulfuric hydriodic or phosphorous acids and the like as well as the salts derived from relatively nontoxic organic acids like acetic propionic isobutyric maleic malonic benzoic succinic suberic fumaric lactic mandelic phthalic benzenesulfonic p tolylsulfonic citric tartaric methanesulfonic and the like. Also included are salts of amino acids such as arginate and the like and salts of organic acids like glucuronic or galactunoric acids and the like see e.g. Berge et al. 66 1 19 1977 . Certain specific compounds of the present invention contain both basic and acidic functionalities that allow the compounds to be converted into either base or acid addition salts. Other pharmaceutically acceptable carriers known to those of skill in the art are suitable for the present invention. Salts tend to be more soluble in aqueous or other protonic solvents that are the corresponding free base forms. In other cases the preparation may be a lyophilized powder in 1 mM 50 mM histidine 0.1 2 sucrose 2 7 mannitol at a pH range of 4.5 to 5.5 that is combined with buffer prior to use.

The neutral forms of the compounds may be regenerated by contacting the salt with a base or acid and isolating the parent compound in the conventional manner. The parent form of the compound differs from the various salt forms in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents but otherwise the salts are equivalent to the parent form of the compound for the purposes of the present invention.

Certain compositions described herein or kinase inhibitor compounds of the present invention can exist in unsolvated forms as well as solvated forms including hydrated forms. In general the solvated forms are equivalent to unsolvated forms and are intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present invention. Certain kinase inhibitor compounds of the present invention may exist in multiple crystalline or amorphous forms. In general all physical forms are equivalent for the uses contemplated by the present invention and are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.

In another embodiment the compositions of the present invention are useful for parenteral administration such as intravenous IV administration or administration into a body cavity or lumen of an organ. The formulations for administration will commonly comprise a solution of the compositions of the present invention dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that can be employed are water and Ringer s solution an isotonic sodium chloride. In addition sterile fixed oils can conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil can be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid can likewise be used in the preparation of injectables. These solutions are sterile and generally free of undesirable matter. These formulations may be sterilized by conventional well known sterilization techniques. The formulations may contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents toxicity adjusting agents e.g. sodium acetate sodium chloride potassium chloride calcium chloride sodium lactate and the like. The concentration of the compositions of the present invention in these formulations can vary widely and will be selected primarily based on fluid volumes viscosities body weight and the like in accordance with the particular mode of administration selected and the patient s needs. For IV administration the formulation can be a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension can be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation can also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution of 1 3 butanediol.

In another embodiment the formulations of the compositions of the present invention can be delivered by the use of liposomes which fuse with the cellular membrane or are endocytosed i.e. by employing receptor ligands attached to the liposome that bind to surface membrane protein receptors of the cell resulting in endocytosis. By using liposomes particularly where the liposome surface carries receptor ligands specific for target cells or are otherwise preferentially directed to a specific organ one can focus the delivery of the compositions of the present invention into the target cells in vivo. See e.g. Al Muhammed 13 293 306 1996 Chonn 6 698 708 1995 Ostro 46 1576 1587 1989 .

The compounds described herein can be used in combination with one another with other active agents e.g. anti cancer agents known to be useful in treating a disease e.g. cancer MEN2 associated cancer AXL kinase associated cancer resistant cancer EGFR therapy resistant cancer EGFR therapeutic resistant cancer or other active agents known to be useful in treating a disease associated with cells expressing a particular kinase e.g. Ret kinase Raf kinase Src kinase S6K kinase AXL kinase B Raf kinase or with adjunctive agents that may not be effective alone but may contribute to the efficacy of the active agent.

In some embodiments co administration includes administering one active agent within 0.5 1 2 4 6 8 10 12 16 20 or 24 hours of a second active agent. Co administration includes administering two active agents simultaneously approximately simultaneously e.g. within about 1 5 10 15 20 or 30 minutes of each other or sequentially in any order. In some embodiments co administration can be accomplished by co formulation i.e. preparing a single pharmaceutical composition including both active agents. In other embodiments the active agents can be formulated separately. In another embodiment the active and or adjunctive agents may be linked or conjugated to one another.

As a non limiting example the compounds described herein can be co administered with conventional chemotherapeutic agents including alkylating agents e.g. cyclophosphamide ifosfamide chlorambucil busulfan melphalan mechlorethamine uramustine thiotepa nitrosoureas etc. anti metabolites e.g. 5 fluorouracil azathioprine methotrexate leucovorin capecitabine cytarabine floxuridine fludarabine gemcitabine pemetrexed raltitrexed etc. plant alkaloids e.g. vincristine vinblastine vinorelbine vindesine podophyllotoxin paclitaxel docetaxel etc. topoisomerase inhibitors e.g. irinotecan topotecan amsacrine etoposide VP16 etoposide phosphate teniposide etc. antitumor antibiotics e.g. doxorubicin adriamycin daunorubicin epirubicin actinomycin bleomycin mitomycin mitoxantrone plicamycin etc. platinum based compounds e.g. cisplatin oxaloplatin carboplatin etc. other kinase inhibitors and the like.

The kinase inhibitor compounds described herein can also be co administered with conventional hormonal therapeutic agents including but not limited to steroids e.g. dexamethasone finasteride aromatase inhibitors tamoxifen and gonadotropin releasing hormone agonists GnRH such as goserelin.

Additionally the compounds described herein can be co administered with conventional immunotherapeutic agents including but not limited to immunostimulants e.g. Bacillus Calmette Gu rin BCG levamisole interleukin 2 alpha interferon etc. monoclonal antibodies e.g. anti CD20 anti HER2 anti CD52 anti HLA DR and anti VEGF monoclonal antibodies immunotoxins e.g. anti CD33 monoclonal antibody calicheamicin conjugate anti CD22 monoclonal antibody pseudomonas exotoxin conjugate etc. and radioimmunotherapy e.g. anti CD20 monoclonal antibody conjugated to In Y or I etc. .

In a further embodiment the compounds described herein can be co administered with conventional radiotherapeutic agents including but not limited to radionuclides such as Sc Cu Cu Sr Y Y Y Rh Ag In Sn Pm Sm Ho Lu Re Re At and Bi optionally conjugated to antibodies directed against tumor antigens.

As non limiting examples the compositions drugs and compounds described herein including compounds any of formulas I to XVIII and including embodiments thereof can be co administered with or used in combination with anti cancer agents including but not limited to the anti cancer agents described herein. In some embodiments the compounds described herein including embodiments may be co administered with or used in combination with an EGFR targeted therapy or EGFR targeted therapeutic e.g. gefitinib Iressa erlotinib Tarceva cetuximab Erbitux lapatinib Tykerb panitumumab Vectibix vandetanib Caprelsa . In some embodiments the compounds described herein including compounds any of formulas I to XVIII and including embodiments thereof may be co administered with or used in combination with a MEK targeted therapy or MEK targeted therapeutic.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be sterilized by conventional well known sterilization techniques or may be produced under sterile conditions. Aqueous solutions can be packaged for use or filtered under aseptic conditions and lyophilized the lyophilized preparation being combined with a sterile aqueous solution prior to administration. The compositions can contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents wetting agents and the like e.g. sodium acetate sodium lactate sodium chloride potassium chloride calcium chloride sorbitan monolaurate and triethanolamine oleate.

Formulations suitable for oral administration can comprise a liquid solutions such as an effective amount of a packaged kinase inhibitor compound or drug suspended in diluents e.g. water saline or PEG 400 b capsules sachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a kinase inhibitor compound or drug as liquids solids granules or gelatin c suspensions in an appropriate liquid and d suitable emulsions. Tablet forms can include one or more of lactose sucrose mannitol sorbitol calcium phosphates corn starch potato starch microcrystalline cellulose gelatin colloidal silicon dioxide talc magnesium stearate stearic acid and other excipients colorants fillers binders diluents buffering agents moistening agents preservatives flavoring agents dyes disintegrating agents and pharmaceutically compatible carriers. Lozenge forms can comprise compounds described herein or drug in a flavor e.g. sucrose as well as pastilles comprising the compounds described herein in an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia emulsions gels and the like containing in addition to the compounds described herein carriers known in the art.

The compounds described herein alone or in combination with other suitable components can be made into aerosol formulations i.e. they can be nebulized to be administered via inhalation. Aerosol formulations can be placed into pressurized acceptable propellants such as dichlorodifluoromethane propane nitrogen and the like.

Suitable formulations for rectal administration include for example suppositories which comprises an effective amount of a packaged compound described herein or drug with a suppository base. Suitable suppository bases include natural or synthetic triglycerides or paraffin hydrocarbons. In addition it is also possible to use gelatin rectal capsules which contain a combination of a compound described herein or drug of choice with a base including for example liquid triglycerides polyethylene glycols and paraffin hydrocarbons.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration such as for example by intraarticular in the joints intravenous intramuscular intratumoral intradermal intraperitoneal and subcutaneous routes include aqueous and non aqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions which can contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions that can include suspending agents solubilizers thickening agents stabilizers and preservatives. Injection solutions and suspensions can also be prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets. In the practice of the present invention compositions can be administered for example by intravenous infusion orally topically intraperitoneally intravesically or intrathecally. Parenteral administration oral administration and intravenous administration are the preferred methods of administration. The formulations of compounds can be presented in unit dose or multi dose sealed containers such as ampoules and vials.

The pharmaceutical preparation is preferably in unit dosage form. In such form the preparation is subdivided into unit doses containing appropriate quantities of the active component e.g. a kinase inhibitor compound. The unit dosage form can be a packaged preparation the package containing discrete quantities of preparation such as packeted tablets capsules and powders in vials or ampoules. Also the unit dosage form can be a capsule tablet cachet or lozenge itself or it can be the appropriate number of any of these in packaged form. The composition can if desired also contain other compatible therapeutic agents.

In therapeutic use for the treatment of cancer compounds described herein utilized in the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be administered at the initial dosage of about 0.001 mg kg to about 1000 mg kg daily. A daily dose range of about 0.01 mg kg to about 500 mg kg or about 0.1 mg kg to about 200 mg kg or about 1 mg kg to about 100 mg kg or about 10 mg kg to about 50 mg kg can be used. The dosages however may be varied depending upon the requirements of the patient the severity of the condition being treated and the compounds or drug being employed. For example dosages can be empirically determined considering the type and stage of cancer diagnosed in a particular patient. The dose administered to a patient in the context of the present invention should be sufficient to affect a beneficial therapeutic response in the patient over time. The size of the dose will also be determined by the existence nature and extent of any adverse side effects that accompany the administration of a compound described herein in a particular patient. Determination of the proper dosage for a particular situation is within the skill of the practitioner. Generally treatment is initiated with smaller dosages which are less than the optimum dose of the kinase inhibitor compound. Thereafter the dosage is increased by small increments until the optimum effect under circumstances is reached. For convenience the total daily dosage may be divided and administered in portions during the day if desired.

The compounds described herein can be used in combination with one another with other active agents known to be useful in treating cancer or with adjunctive agents that may not be effective alone but may contribute to the efficacy of the active agent. The compounds and methods described herein include any of the compounds described herein or in any table figure or example.

The following examples are meant to illustrate certain embodiments of the invention and not to limit the scope of the invention described herein.

The complexity of cancer has led to recent interest in polypharmacological approaches for developing kinase inhibitor drugs. The optimal profile of kinase inhibition remains difficult to predict and chemical optimization based on a profile of targets rather than a single target has relied on serendipity. Guided by screening in a Ret kinase driven Drosophila model of Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2 MEN2 and kinome wide profiling of drug candidates we identified chemically related inhibitors that target oncogenic Ret but have distinct additional kinase targets. When fed to whole flies AD57 afforded pharmacological rescue from oncogenic Ret induced lethality whereas the chemical analogs AD36 and AD58 imparted reduced efficacy and enhanced toxicity respectively. Through Drosophila reverse genetics and cross comparison of AD57 AD58 and AD36 profiles we defined three pathways that account for the mechanistic basis of efficacy targets and dose limiting toxicity anti targets in the context of oncogenic Ret Ras Src and PI3K. Combinatorial inhibition of Ret plus the three downstream kinases Raf Src and S6K were required for optimal animal survival. Inhibition of dTor led to paradoxical hyperproliferation due to release of negative feedback the result was high drug toxicity demonstrating that identifying anti targets can be particularly critical in developing cancer therapies. Chemical design based on incorporation of substituents into the phenyl urea moiety of AD57 incompatible with dTor binding led to development of AD80 and AD81 compounds that retained the desired targets of AD57 but eliminated binding to the anti target dTor a feature we term balanced pathway inhibition . The result was significantly improved efficacy and low toxicity in our Drosophila MEN2 model. Combining kinase focused chemistry kinome wide profiling and Drosophila genetics provides a powerful approach for identifying and characterizing a complex spectrum of kinase targets that is tailored for maximal therapeutic index.

Described herein is a Drosophila MEN2B model in which an intracellular mutation in the Drosophila Ret ortholog dRet was targeted to the eye Read R. D. et al. 2005. 171 3 p. 1057 81 . This dRetmodel proved useful for validating whole animal efficacy of the kinase inhibitor ZD6474 Vandetanib Vidal M. et al. 2005. 65 9 p. 3538 41 a drug recently approved for MEN2 patients. To improve its utility for drug screening we developed a more quantitative viability assay that utilizes the GAL4 UAS system to target oncogenic dRetto multiple developing epithelial tissues . The screen is conducted in developing drosophila embryos. Under normal circumstances drosophila embryos pass through four developmental steps embryo larvae pupae adult. However expression of an oncogenic form of the RET tyrosine kinase blocks 100 of embryos at the pupae stage so that none reach adulthood. We calibrated the ptc dRetMEN2B assay to permit 50 survival to pupariation and 0 survival to adulthood. Mutated forms of RET are believed to be causative in human thyroid cancers including multiple endocrine neoplasia types 2A and 2B MEN2A and MEN2B . The screen identifies small molecules that a suppress the toxicity induced by oncogenic RET and b allow flies to develop to functional adults. Oral administration of clinical kinase inhibitors Sunitinib and Sorafenib Wilhelm S. M. et al. 2004. 64 19 p. 7099 109 Sun L. et al. 2003. 46 7 p. 1116 9 resulted in mild Sunitinib or stronger Sorafenib rescue validating our assay. Of note Sorafenib rescued some animals to adulthood but did not significantly increase the proportion that developed to pupariation indicating some efficacy but also toxicity at optimal doses.

We developed a library of polypharmacology based compounds that target Ret in addition to other classes of kinases. To identify candidate compounds with optimal efficacy and toxicity profiles we synthesized a panel of inhibitors with near equal potency against RET a traditional target based approach that additionally target downstream kinases within the canonical Ret signaling pathway. We screened them with a phenotype based screen using a Drosophila model of the severe disease subtype MEN2B Read R. D. et al. 2005. 171 3 p. 1057 81 . One compound was identified AD57 that potently suppressed ptc dRetlethality in the larva and rescued approximately 25 of animals to adulthood . Rescued adults also exhibited complete suppression of notum and scutellum defects that were observed in un eclosed control pupae . Many rescued animals were fully active and fertile. Of note AD57 demonstrated an improved efficacy toxicity profile in our assay compared to a panel of clinically relevant compounds including Sunitinib and Sorafenib and the recently reported Apsel B. et al. 2008. 4 11 p. 691 9 dual PI3K tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP121 .

Described herein is testing AD57 stepwise in genetically modified flies which lead to rational development of a novel class of kinase inhibitors that exhibited substantially improved efficacy and toxicity in Drosophila and a mouse xenograft based MEN2 model. Our results present a novel approach to rational drug development that combines aspects of target and phenotype based drug discovery it utilizes whole animal screening to both explore the mechanisms by which a drug acts and to identify an improved polypharmacological profile for suppressing tumors in vivo.

AD57 was originally developed as part of a polypharmacology based type II inhibitor library that targets multiple kinase classes including cytoplasmic and receptor tyrosine kinases. In a co crystal structure with c Src AD57 bound to the DFG OUT conformation a configuration that was previously considered to be energetically unfavorable and inaccessible to drugs Ref Dar A. C. M. S. Lopez and K. M. Shokat 2008. 15 10 p. 1015 22 . The overall structure of AD57 like compounds includes two fragments fused through a urea linker . Shared features include a pyrazolopyrimidine core that functions as a mimic of adenosine or hinge binder and a hydrophobic element that binds within an allosteric pocket of the kinase domain. The rescue profile of AD57 led us to further explore its properties.

We also examined two close analogs of AD57. AD36 contains a methylene group between the pyrazolopyrimidine ring and fused phenyl portion that alters the relative geometry of the hinge binding and allosteric site elements . AD58 does not contain the CF3 group that is a key pharmacophore for type II inhibition Liu Y. and N. S. Gray 2006. 2 7 p. 358 64 . These subtle structural changes led to significant changes in activity. AD36 exhibited some efficacy increased pupae but no adults whereas AD58 induced significant toxicity without detectable efficacy fewer pupae adults . These results demonstrate the sensitivity of whole body phenotypes in Drosophila to conservative structural differences between AD57 AD36 and AD58.

We reasoned that the rescue phenotype of AD57 could not solely be based upon its type II binding mode for example other type II kinase inhibitors such as Imatinib Sorafenib and AD36 did not rescue to the same degree as AD57. The difference between AD36 and AD57 was especially surprising since both share near equal potency for Ret in vitro indeed our analysis of other kinase inhibitors indicated that efficacy did not correlate solely with inhibition of Ret . This suggested that targeting of additional kinases is necessary for the biological efficacy of AD57. Using in vitro kinase assays we tested AD57 AD36 and AD58 at 1 M for activity against approximately one half of the human kinome 165 Ser Thr kinases 91 Tyr kinases and 10 PI kinases were assayed totaling 266 kinases 244 distinct kinases plus 22 mutant isoforms see and for measured inhibition values . This broad survey of differences in activity was instructive and indicated that small perturbations in AD57 s structure led to considerable changes in kinase selectivity.

At a cutoff of greater than 80 inhibition AD36 and AD57 inhibited the least and most kinases respectively . For example and relevant to this work AD57 is a potent inhibitor of human B Raf S6K mTor and Src. By comparison AD58 is a much weaker inhibitor of S6K and B Raf but is more potent against mTor AD36 is a relatively selective compound that has maintained activity for Ret and Raf but is nearly inactive against mTor S6K and Src. We explored these kinase targets in more detail below. Of note AD36 s additional methylene group eliminated its activity for a large number of kinases most likely through steric clash at the gatekeeper position the gatekeeper mutant alleles for Abl T315I EGFR T790M and Ret V804L were inhibited more poorly than their wild type counterparts. In contrast AD57 retained or improved on inhibition of gatekeeper isoforms e.g. EGFR T790M .

AD57 potently inhibited viability of the MEN2B patient derived cell line MZ CRC 1 with an ICapproximately 150 fold more potent than Sorafenib a drug currently in clinical trials for MTC . AD36 and AD58 inhibited MZ CRC 1 cell viability at levels similar to Sorafenib but well below AD57 PP121 reduced MZ CRC 1 cell viability to levels approaching AD57 . In dose response studies with the MEN2A derived human TT cell line AD57 exhibited an ICmore than 150 fold lower than Vandetanib a kinase inhibitor recently approved for MEN2 and MTC Wells S. A. Jr. et al. 2010. 28 5 p. 767 72 Wells S A R. B. Gagel R F et al. Meeting Abstracts 2010. 28 Suppl p. 5503 .

In addition to the experiments with AD57 and AD80 in drosophila we have examined these molecules in murine models of cancer. We have found that both compounds have pharmacokinetic profiles in a range that is similar to several clinical agents. We have found that AD57 displays antitumor activity in a mouse xenograft model of MEN2B cancer.

Cell culture studies provide limited efficacy and toxicity data and so we turned to a conventional mouse xenograft model. TT based tumors were grown for 46 days in athymic nu nu male mice prior to drug administration. Subsequent PO administration of 20 mg kg AD57 led to significant suppression of tumor growth at a concentration 20 mg kg that demonstrated no detectable toxicity as assessed by animal weights . Together our data indicate that Drosophila in vivo assays provide a useful tool for identifying compounds with improved efficacy and toxicity profiles while providing important information on their effects in situ.

At least three major pathways are required for dRet mediated transformation Ras Src and glucose metabolism PI3K Ref Read R. D. et al. 2005. 171 3 p. 1057 81 . We utilized in vitro kinase assays to assess compound activity against relevant kinases from each of these pathways specifically Ret B Raf Src Tor and S6K . The three AD class compounds exhibited differing kinase profiles. For example AD57 and AD58 strongly inhibited Src kinase activity while AD36 inhibited it only weakly. We previously demonstrated that activation of Src is sufficient to direct many of the aspects we observed within the ptc domain Read R. D. E. A. Bach and R. L. Cagan 2004. 24 15 p. 6676 89 Vidal M. D. E. Larson and R. L. Cagan 2006. 10 1 p. 33 44 Vidal M. et al. 2007. 67 21 p. 10278 85 and so we explored its activity in situ.

We previously developed a wing based assay for transformation and cell migration that we utilized to explore Ras and Src based tumorigenesis Vidal M. D. E. Larson and R. L. Cagan 2006. 10 1 p. 33 44 . In this assay the ptc GAL4 driver directed oncogene expression in a stripe along the anterior posterior axis oncogene based transformation led to over proliferation epithelial to mesenchymal transition EMT and cell migration away from the ptc domain. Adapting this approach to oncogenic dRet we found that ptc dRetwings exhibited each of these aspects top left arrow . Oral administration of AD57 demonstrated potent in vivo suppression of ptc dRet leading to reduced proliferation a rescue of the EMT like phenotype and a block in cell invasion bottom left . Sunitinib Vandetanib and PP121 all showed limited ability to significantly rescue the transformation phenotype while Sorafenib a Raf RTK class inhibitor showed measurable rescue that was nonetheless less than AD57 . We conclude that oral administration of AD57 is particularly effective at suppressing dRet mediated transformation at doses that are non toxic to the fly.

ptc dRetled to high levels of activated phospho Src at the basal invading front of transformed cells top left panel star . In addition to suppressing EMT and invasion oral administration of AD57 suppressed phospho Src in basal regions of the wing epithelium bottom left . Distinctions with AD36 and AD58 were instructive. AD36 failed to suppress the invasion or basal migration of ptc dRetcells and as predicted by our in vitro assay phospho Src remained at high levels at the basal leading edge middle panel star . Also as predicted AD58 prevented basal phospho Src accumulation yet it failed to prevent invasion basal migration bottom right . This data support the view that Src inhibition contributes to reducing invasion basal migration but suggest that other targets are required as well.

The adult Drosophila wing consists of a stereotypical pattern of four veins and two cross veins increased Ras Erk pathway activity leads to ectopic veins e.g. Refs. Sawamoto K. et al. 1996. 178 1 p. 13 22 Guichard A. et al. 1999. 126 12 p. 2663 76 . Expression of oncogenic dRet throughout the developing wing 765 dRet led to disruption of the overall adult wing pattern including ectopic wing veins . Reducing gene dosage of the erk ortholog rolled 765 dReterk suppressed these phenotypes confirming that wing vein formation is dependent on Ras Erk activity.

dRet dependent wing phenotypes were suppressed with AD57 treatment . Surprisingly the ectopic wing vein phenotype was slightly but consistently enhanced with AD58 treatment suggesting that AD58 treatment increased Ras pathway signaling. Consistent with this view removing a functional copy of erk resulted in strong suppression of dRet induced wing phenotypes in the presence of AD58 treatment . Reducing erk copy number also enhanced AD57 treatment to yield wings that were nearly wild type . This data raised the possibility that AD58 toxicity was due to excess Ras pathway activity. It also indicated that further suppressing Ras signaling would improve AD57 s activity profile.

In addition to elevated Ras Erk signaling AD58 directed significant whole animal toxicity when fed to ptc dRetand wild type flies providing us an opportunity to explore aspects of AD class toxicity. Based on in vitro kinase data AD58 is a stronger inhibitor of mTor and a weaker inhibitor of B Raf than AD57 . Recently mTor inhibition has been demonstrated to provide feedback activation to Ras pathway signaling Gedaly R. et al. 30 12 p. 4951 8 Carracedo A. et al. 2008. 118 9 p. 3065 74 . We therefore tested whether differences in AD57 vs. AD58 efficacy and toxicity were due in part to differences in the inhibition of the putative anti target dTor. We refer to an anti target as a kinase where inhibition leads to a worse outcome.

Reducing dTor ptc dRetdTor dominantly suppressed the efficacy of AD57 and enhanced the toxicity of AD58 . A quantitative phenotypic assessment indicated that enhancement of AD58 was due primarily to an increase in proliferation . Importantly reducing the gene dosage of dTor also enhanced the AD58 induced ectopic wing pattern and vein formation indicating that reducing dTor increased Erk activity.

We also assessed the utility of balancing dTor Ras signaling by targeting the latter for reduction. AD58 mediated toxicity in wild type flies was almost completely suppressed by co feeding with the RAF inhibitor Sorafenib or MEK inhibitor AZD6244 . Combining AD58 with Sorafenib also resulted in significant suppression of invasion and migration within ptc dRetwing discs . Removing a genomic copy of erk rolled also improved AD57 s efficacy and toxicity profile . Together these data indicate that both AD57 and AD58 act to inhibit dTor activity but failure of AD58 to suppress Raf kinase led to elevated Ras pathway activity. Elevated Erk in turn led to poor tumor efficacy and high whole body toxicity.

Our genetic and chemical data indicated that an optimal drug for MEN2B will exhibit activity against Src S6K and Raf but limited activity against Tor. To improve AD57 we developed a series of new AD based analogs that were tested for these properties through in vitro kinase assays. From our previously determined structure of AD57 in complex with c Src we reasoned that modifying the terminal phenyl group of AD57 would selectively perturb dTor binding without altering inhibitor interactions with Ret Raf or Src. To test this hypothesis we generated two compounds AD80 and AD81 in which ortho Fluorine and para Chlorine groups respectively were incorporated .

Based on their in vitro kinase profiles AD80 and AD81 inhibited Ret Raf Src and S6K but not mTor activity . Oral administration of either AD80 or AD81 resulted in a remarkable 70 90 of animals developing to adulthood in our Drosophila ptc dRetmodel a significant improvement over the efficacy observed with AD57 and all other compounds we have tested to date . In the wing both compounds displayed significantly improved suppression of dRet induced proliferation EMT and invasion migration restoring normal tissue architecture . Focusing on AD80 ectopic Src activation and wing vein pattern phenotypes were suppressed indicating that Src and Ras activities were restored to normal levels. The result was phenotypically normal ptc dRetadults exceeding AD57 or Sorafenib rescued adults which displayed some cuticle defects.

Importantly while reducing erk gene dosage ptc dRet erk considerably enhanced the efficacy of AD57 and AD58 in viability assays it did not alter efficacy of AD80 treatment . This indicates that AD80 demonstrates optimal Ras Erk pathway inhibition and more broadly AD80 and AD81 have an optimal balance of activity against Ret Raf Src Tor and S6K that leads to high efficacy with very low toxicity.

Using a step wise approach that combined genetics and medicinal chemistry we identified AD57 and its derivatives AD80 and AD81 as polypharmacology agents that were optimized to inhibit a spectrum of five kinases. Our studies indicate these drugs may be an improvement over existing compounds including Vandetanib a kinase inhibitor demonstrated by others and us to act on Ret based tumorigenesis Vidal M. et al. 2005. 65 9 p. 3538 41 Carlomagno F. et al. 2002. 62 24 p. 7284 90 and recently approved for MTC patients. Here we focused on a library of compounds designed for multi kinase targeting Ref Dar A. C. M. S. Lopez and K. M. Shokat 2008. 15 10 p. 1015 22 to improve our chances of identifying useful polypharmacological hits. A related approach is to assess drug combinations we are also exploring combinations using a similar approach. A collaborative agreement between Merck and AstraZeneca to combine a MEK inhibitor AZD6244 with an Akt inhibitor MK 2206 suggests that commercial or trial design barriers for combined therapies are yielding Knight Z. A. H. Lin and K. M. Shokat 10 2 p. 130 7 . In addition to the increased cost of producing a mix of compounds complex target profile interactions and differing pharmacokinetics can make executing clinical trials challenging.

An important point that emerges from these studies is the inadequacy of using potency against the primary oncogene Ret to predict a drug s whole animal efficacy. This is surprising as all phenotypes in our model are due to oncogenic Ret the sole initiator of tumors in most MEN2 patients. This observation is consistent with the observation that certain drugs that proved potent against Ret and against human MEN2 cell lines have nevertheless shown limited success and substantial toxicity in clinical trials e.g. Ref. Verbeek H. H. et al. 2011. 96 6 p. E991 5 Ahmed M. et al. 2011 . At least two reasons are likely to explain this discrepancy. First strong inhibition of Ret may prove toxic both due to on target and the inevitable off target effects across body systems Durante C. et al. 2011. 20 3 p. 407 413 adding drugs directly to a cell line likely gives it direct access to oncogenic Ret but achieving similar concentrations throughout a body may require toxic doses. Whereas partial inhibition of multiple kinases may permit sufficient function within non diseased tissues while preventing the high levels of kinase activity required to sustain and progress a tumor.

We defined three pathways that account for the mechanistic basis of efficacy targets and dose limiting toxicity anti targets in the context of oncogenic Ret Ras Src and PI3K. Combinatorial inhibition of Ret plus the three downstream kinases Raf Src and S6K were required for optimal animal survival. Inhibition of dTor led to paradoxical hyperproliferation due to release of negative feedback the result was high drug toxicity demonstrating that identifying anti targets can be critical in developing cancer therapies. Chemical design based on incorporation of substituents into the phenyl urea moiety of AD57 incompatible with dTor binding led to development of AD80 and AD81 compounds that retained the desired targets of AD57 but eliminated binding to the anti target dTor a feature we term balanced pathway inhibition . The result was significantly improved efficacy and low toxicity in both Drosophila and mammalian MEN2 models.

Based on their in vitro kinase profiles AD80 and AD81 inhibited Ret Raf Src and S6K with greatly reduced mTor activity relative to AD57 and AD58 . Oral administration of either AD80 or AD81 resulted in a remarkable 70 90 of animals developing to adulthood in our Drosophila ptc dRetmodel a significant improvement over the efficacy observed with AD57 and all other compounds we have tested to date . In the wing both compounds displayed significantly improved suppression of dRet induced proliferation basal constriction and invasion migration restoring normal tissue architecture . Focusing on AD80 ectopic Src activation and wing vein pattern phenotypes were strongly suppressed indicating that Src and Ras activities were restored to normal levels. The result was phenotypically normal ptc dRetadults with phenotypic rescue that exceeded AD57 or Sorafenib which yielded adults with some cuticle defects.

The improved profile of AD80 also translated to mammalian MEN2 models. AD80 inhibited proliferation of MZ and TT thyroid cancer cells in culture most likely through the induction of apoptosis . Immunoblot analysis demonstrated potent downregulation of phospho Ret and several downstream biomarkers within these cells . Finally we observed enhanced tumor growth inhibition and reduced body weight modulation relative to Vandetanib in a mouse xenograft model .

The connection between Tor and the Ras pathway within the MEN2B model is reminiscent of a general network motif termed an incoherent feed forward loop Durante C. et al. 2011. 20 3 p. 407 413 here dRetactivates Ras but also represses Ras signaling by activating Tor. This network motif has been identified within diverse contexts including transcriptional and neuronal networks as a means to tune cellular responses to incoming signals Durante C. et al. 2011. 20 3 p. 407 413 .

As shown in cells expressing RET fusions e.g. having aberrant Ret activity or function inhibition of RET signaling leads to reduction of proliferation at concentrations about 100 fold higher than those required to induce dephosphorylation of the driver oncogene and its downstream signaling. Furthermore over time PI3K and MAPK signaling can be reactivated in a RET independent manner and thus consequently combination of RET and MEK inhibition lead to robust induction apoptosis in these cells. Combination therapies using Ret inhibitors e.g. compounds described herein and MEK targeted therapies or therapeutics may be of clinical relevance for patients with cancers associated with aberrant Ret activity or function or levels e.g. thyroid cancers expressing RET fusion proteins e.g. CCDC6 RET or lung cancers expressing such oncogenically active RET fusions e.g. KIF5B RET .

It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application and scope of the appended claims. All publications patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

