---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for providing an integrated knowledge management system
abstract: Embodiments provide an automated knowledge management service. A method includes receiving, at a computer processor that implements the knowledge management service, a request for information from a requesting entity. The method also includes generating, by the computer processor, a search query to search for the information across multiple compartmentalized data sources that are non-local to the automated knowledge management service, searching the multiple compartmentalized data sources for the information, and retrieving the information from one of the multiple compartmentalized data sources. The method further includes determining an access channel for transmitting the information, formatting the information to correspond to a format recognized by the access channel, and transmitting formatted information to the requesting entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09305037&OS=09305037&RS=09305037
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09305037
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140625
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 627 628 filed Nov. 30 2009 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to knowledge management and in particular to methods systems and computer program products for implementing an integrated knowledge management system.

In recent years many traditional telecommunication companies have transformed themselves from network transport providers to rich information and entertainment service providers. To facilitate this transition these companies are building new network infrastructures. However to fully support rich information and entertainment services system infrastructures that support these diversified services e.g. wireless and wireline as well as applications e.g. IP telephone data and IP video applications need to be established and or enhanced.

One of such supporting infrastructures is in the knowledge management domain of the service provider s customer care organization. For example in the telecommunications industry a customer care organization provides assistance to its customers and or prospective customers such as provisioning telecommunications services providing information concerning service offerings product offerings account information and technical support to name a few.

Knowledge management has been defined as a process for gathering and organizing information for subsequent use. An efficient way to supply relevant information to a knowledge consumer may enable the service provider to reduce overall support costs. Some service providers utilize industry standard models in developing business and operations support systems BSS OSS e.g. enhanced Telecommunications Operations Map eTOM and Telecommunications Management Network TMN . However what continues to be lacking from these models is a cohesive knowledge management reference framework that addresses the collective needs of knowledge consumers across varying platforms by supporting knowledge consumption for varying access channels utilized by end consumers as well as support agents and field technicians of the service provider.

Using telecommunications services as an example knowledge consumption needs are typically segmented according to business organizations e.g. wireline services versus wireless services . Requirements for implementing an end to end knowledge management system are oftentimes developed by a respective business owner that does not leverage existing knowledge bases and is known to employ specific login restrictions to limit other business organizations in consuming the domain knowledge. For example in the wireline group multiple knowledge management systems may be developed to support self service channels and assisted care channels while in the wireless group a different set of knowledge management systems may be implemented to support these corresponding channels.

Furthermore some service providers implement different knowledge management systems based on product lines. For example in some instances when a new product organization is established system designers may not have a clear roadmap to follow and thus may end up developing duplicate sets of information into a new knowledge management system. Many service providers today are known to use a traditional content creation environment that utilizes dedicated Methods and Procedures M P writers to create content in a formal process. Informal content such as customer relationship management CRM notes Web 2.0 blogs wikis and communities are typically ignored. Additionally there is no easy way to integrate diagnostic testing and CRM systems with the knowledge management systems. Thus it becomes difficult to present relevant content to the users in the right context.

What is needed therefore is a way to provide a common shared knowledge management infrastructure accessible via varying communications channels to a knowledge consumption base.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention include methods systems and computer program products for implementing a knowledge management system. A method includes receiving at a computer processor that implements the knowledge management service a request for information from a requesting entity. The method also includes generating by the computer processor a search query to search for the information across multiple compartmentalized data sources that are non local to the automated knowledge management service searching the multiple compartmentalized data sources for the information and retrieving the information from one of the multiple compartmentalized data sources. The method further includes determining an access channel for transmitting the information formatting the information to correspond to a format recognized by the access channel and transmitting formatted information to the requesting entity.

Other systems methods and computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the preferred embodiments of the invention together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

An integrated knowledge management system in support of a customer care domain of a product service provider is described in accordance with exemplary embodiments. The integrated knowledge management system provides a knowledge management reference framework to support information consumption in response to requests for information originating from a variety of access channels e.g. home portals registration portals interactive voice response IVR portals assisted care portals and technicians operating in remote locations to name a few . In an exemplary embodiment the knowledge management system integrates self help and agent help together by sharing a common knowledge management infrastructure and key information content.

In an exemplary embodiment the integrated knowledge management system is implemented by a telecommunications service provider and supports complex services such as voice data and video services as well as related applications. In addition the integrated knowledge management system provides cohesive support to address the knowledge needs of both end users e.g. consumers of the services and agents of the service provider.

Turning now to an exemplary system for implementing the integrated knowledge management system will now be described. The system of includes a host system in communication with user systems and one or more external knowledge sources over one or more network s . In an exemplary embodiment the host system represents a telecommunications service provider that provides network transport and communications services to its customer base.

Host system may be implemented using one or more servers operating in response to a computer program stored in a storage medium accessible by the server s . The host system may operate as a network server e.g. a web server to communicate with the user systems and external knowledge sources . The host system handles sending and receiving information to and from the user systems and external knowledge sources and can perform associated tasks. The host system executes one or more applications in support of the telecommunications services provided to its customers. Such applications may include e.g. a customer care application e.g. one of care applications and or IPTV care applications shown in that provides product service information technical support customer account and provisioning information and services not shown . In an exemplary embodiment the host system also executes one or more applications for facilitating the integrated knowledge management system. These one or more applications are collectively referred to herein as an integrated knowledge management system application . Various supporting functions may also be implemented by the host system as will be described further in .

In exemplary embodiments host system is in communication with a storage device . Storage device may be implemented using memory contained in the host system or it may be a separate physical or virtual or logical device. As shown in the storage device is in direct communication with the host system via e.g. cabling . However other network implementations may be utilized. For example storage device may be logically addressable as a consolidated data source across a distributed environment that includes one or more networks . Information stored in the storage device may be retrieved and manipulated via the host system . Storage device is referred to herein as an internal knowledge source and stores a care knowledge base as described further herein. Internal knowledge source is also referred to herein as local information source. While the knowledge from the information source need not be physically local to the host system it will be understood that local information source refers to information sources that are either proprietary systems or are otherwise non public sources of information.

As indicated above the host system is also in communication with external knowledge sources . The external knowledge sources are also referred to herein as non local information sources to clearly differentiate from internal or local information sources. These external knowledge sources may include independent sources of information stored in separately located data repositories that are accessed by the integrated knowledge management system to enhance the knowledge management base serviced by the integrated knowledge management system. Examples of external sources of knowledge are described further herein. External knowledge sources may be may be implemented using memory contained in physical or virtual or logical devices that are distinct from the storage device . For example external knowledge sources may each be logically addressable as a consolidated data source across a distributed environment that includes one or more networks . Information stored in the external knowledge sources may be retrieved and manipulated via the host system .

User systems are operated by users at one or more geographic locations who may be agents of the service provider of host system administrative entities customer service representatives information technology specialists and field technicians to name a few . User systems may also be operated by users who are customers or prospective customers of the service provider of host system . Operators of user systems request and receive information provided via the integrated knowledge management system. In exemplary embodiments the user systems access the integrated knowledge management system via various types of access channels that include e.g. portals configured for particular entities services products or communications means. These access channels are described further herein.

As shown in non limiting examples of the types of user systems that may receive services via the integrated knowledge management system include a wireless wireline laptop computer a mobile telephone a general purpose desktop computer a POTs enabled telephone and an IP enabled television and set top box.

One or more of the user systems may include a computer processor and an interactive network component for communicating with the host system . In addition one or more of the user systems may include memory for storing at least a portion of knowledge bases offered by the integrated knowledge management system. While only five user systems are shown in the system of it will be understood that many user systems may be implemented in order to realize the advantages of the integrated knowledge management system.

Network s may include any type of known networks including but not limited to a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a global network e.g. Internet a virtual private network VPN and an intranet. The network s may be implemented using wireless networks WiFi satellite cellular etc. or any kind of physical network implementation known in the art. A user system may be coupled to the host system through multiple networks e.g. intranet and Internet so that not all user systems are coupled to the host system through the same network.

In an exemplary embodiment a first of the three layers is referred to herein as a knowledge service domain . The knowledge service domain supports an intelligent search engine and a content re presentation engine collectively referred to herein as knowledge engine or query processor . The intelligent search engine provides the access interfaces to support multiple access channels e.g. knowledge access channels and provides federated search capabilities to retrieve information from multiple content sources in lieu of requiring a distinct login procedure to each individual knowledge management system . The intelligent search engine may include a processor to support application to application searches for knowledge management searches on behalf of care applications . For example when a user types keywords in a search box provided by the API the intelligent search engine provides suggested categories for the user to select. In addition the intelligent search engine may provide auto search capability e.g. automatically searching for answers before the user finishes typing the search request . Further the intelligent search engine may support concept or intent based search capability to provide the requestor the most relevant answers.

The content re presentation engine of the knowledge service domain provides flexible content re presentation to the information requestor e.g. a request for a different view different language adaptive formats based on the user device type i.e. cellular telephone personal computer POTS enabled telephone personal digital assistant etc. and or the requestor s role classification .

The second of the three layers is referred to herein as a pre processing and retrieval domain . The second layer includes various modules including a discovering module a crawling module a retrieving module an indexing module a tagging module and a converting module . The discovering module discovers new knowledge from other knowledge sources i.e. checking indices of other data sources or asking other data sources to notify the discovery module of new knowledge . The discovering domain communicates with a centralized data store which stores e.g. customer repair records such as trouble cases test results trouble histories etc. The central data store may be housed in the care knowledge base shown in .

The crawling module crawls external knowledge management databases to learn of new knowledge. The retrieving module retrieves content from various external sources e.g. knowledge sources . The indexing module indexes the contents of the internal knowledge bases e.g. care knowledge base and the external knowledge bases e.g. knowledge sources . The tagging module tags the contents e.g. information derived from either internal or external sources . The converting module associates the external knowledge with the integrated knowledge management system e.g. by converting the format of the external knowledge to one that is consistent with the internal knowledge store i.e. care knowledge base . When the intelligent search engine i.e. knowledge engine performs a federated search the converting module may convert the search results to the format understood by the integrated knowledge management system platform. In addition the converting module may later convert the results to a presentation format upon a request by the knowledge engine .

In an exemplary embodiment the third layer of the integrated knowledge management system includes external content sources and one IPTV content source . As shown in by way of non limiting example the four external content sources include enterprise care content sources internal Web 2.0 collaboration sources other public sources rules repository and other enterprise knowledge management domains . The enterprise care content sources may include existing knowledge management content management system CMS content which in turn may include customer relationship management CRM notes self service information assisted care help content and M Ps customer contact history logs as well as other similar types of information.

The internal Web 2.0 collaboration sources may include blogs forums network communities wikis or other collaborative content sources. Other public sources include knowledge sources outside of the service provider s business domain e.g. vendor web sites customer premise equipment CPE manufacturers web sites standards body web sites industry forums public collaborative content sources etc. . The rules repository may include rules determined as critical knowledge sources e.g. care application rule set e.g. diagnostic testing rules IVR rule set self service rule set and assisted care rule set . All rules may have an English language equivalent content mapping which provides tier and tier agent educational sources as well as helps trouble shoot faulty rules that are known to cause mishandling of customer reported issues.

Other enterprise knowledge domains may be integrated with the integrated knowledge management system for enabling access to content from sales marketing ordering and billing domains to name a few.

When a user of user devices e.g. IPTV browses through care content e.g. care infomercials this content may be considered part of the knowledge management domain. Many of these IPTV care video clip contents may be viewed by web channel as well. Thus the integrated knowledge management system provides integration between IPTV care content and the integrated knowledge management system platform.

As indicated above the knowledge service domain supports an intelligent search engine and a content re presentation engine collectively knowledge engine . Various supporting functions may be enabled via the knowledge service domain . As shown in e.g. configuration authoring auto reply referred to herein as communications analytical reports customer experience tracking and a knowledge management graphical user interface GUI .

Configuration and authoring capabilities are configured for internal knowledge management repositories e.g. care knowledge base . The configuration and authoring also enables knowledge management administrators e.g. through one of user systems to create views profiles rules for a business organization via the knowledge management GUI . Further the configuration and authorizing also enables an administrator to create user role classifications . These classifications are enabled through logic provided via authoring KM configuration and role configuration functions of the configuration and authoring component. User role classifications may differentiate among the types of users who access the integrated knowledge management system. For example a user who is technologically educated in the products services offered by the service provider e.g. a field representative may be classified in a first role whereas another user who is a customer end user of the products services offered by the service provider may be classified in a second role. By differentiating system users by classification the integrated knowledge management system via the configuration and authoring function may provide customized information to requests for information based upon a user s knowledge skills. A view refers to the format in which information responsive to user requests are provided e.g. a view for an IPTV end user may be configured to include familiar control options common to a remote control operated system .

The auto reply function provides the ability to intercept messages e.g. emails from user systems and present choices e.g. the type of information the user prefers to allow the knowledge management to retrieve before the user sends the message . The auto reply function further acts as a virtual agent to conduct conversations after receiving a message e.g. email or SMS queries . This function involves automatically researching the query text and sending the answer back to the requestor.

The analytical reporting function keeps track of comments ratings of content and generates reports to be used by content authors or administrators to improve the content itself or the presentation format of the content. The analytical reporting function also reads user comments ratings and applies tags to this information e.g. via the tagging module for analysis e.g. determining whether the comments ratings are useful . The filtered comments ratings may be stored in an informal data store e.g. informal content knowledge base .

The customer experience tracking function may be used to track all customer experience indicators relating to knowledge management content and its supporting functions. Some of the data may be fed to the analytical reporting module to generate internal knowledge management reports. Some of the data may be fed to an external key performance indicator KPI system to generate business intelligence summary reports .

The knowledge management GUI provides an internal portal to support content authorizing and system administration and configuration functions.

In addition to the above referenced supporting functions of the knowledge service domain the care knowledge base is also configured to support the knowledge service domain. The care knowledge base includes two components knowledge repositories and supporting repositories . Knowledge repositories support local regional customized and temporary databases. The knowledge repositories further provide support to create a temporary regionalized special purposed knowledge base e.g. a temporary center to support a disaster region an Olympic event in a local city etc. . The knowledge repositories also support the use of mini knowledge bases to prototype new businesses and user requirements. The knowledge repositories may also support informal content knowledge base which houses informal content e.g. emails notes quality information blog forum information etc. .

Supporting repositories include content cache repositories knowledge management meta data index data store tagging user role classification definition data and rule profile view definition data .

Content cache repositories store the most frequently used content in addition to static content that is determined to improve system performance. Meta data may be created by knowledge management systems or may be defined by authors e.g. including titles abstracts location of data applications versions media types information sensitivity etc . Metadata may be searched via the search function of the knowledge engine before it searches for content.

The index data store may house the location of content categories of content and or similar characteristics. Tagging store not shown may index entire content and or index segments of the content. The user role classification definitions data may be stored by product level of competency or other criteria defined via the knowledge management GUI. As indicated above the Rule Profile View definitions data may be used by an administrator to create distinct views based on the needs of different organizations or portal requests. An administrator may create profiles for a group an organization a category of document etc. e.g. one of such rules may be to exclude all DSL modem type information for a particular product from being indexed due to retirement of the modem .

In an exemplary embodiment the integrated knowledge management system provides external interface domains for enabling a single knowledge management consumption point for all channels and applications in order to provide internally owned or externally owned content to requesting entities.

As shown in external domains include access portals care applications and KPI applications . The access portals allow external channels to consume information stored either internally or externally to the knowledge management repository. Non limiting examples of access portals include a home knowledge management portal a self care portal an IVR portal a registration portal messaging response system portal and a single agent portal not shown .

The home knowledge management portal provides a home knowledge management repository locally resident with the customer premise equipment CPE . The home knowledge management portal may receive a periodic feed including a subset of knowledge management data that allows the customer to access the information even when the CPE is offline. The self care portal is configured to enable access to knowledge through a help feature. The help feature may provide knowledge to a user through a guided flow in order to solve problems or reconfigure corrupted profiles or reset a password etc. Additionally when a customer is using an IPTV channel e.g. an emulated Web channel to access care knowledge management information this information may be adjusted to the format of the IPTV channel e.g. remote control click functions and then supplied to the customer.

The IVR portal may provide guided flow access to knowledge e.g. to resolve issues or reset a password . The knowledge may be indirectly accessed to obtain knowledge information e.g. knowledge may be requested via the IVR channel but routed through a different access channel such as email .

The registration portal may be utilized when a user initiates a registration process and encounters an error condition. The error handling processes configured for the error condition interface with the integrated knowledge management system to determine resolutions for the condition.

Messaging response systems may include a knowledge management auto reply module to intercept a query message from an email server SMS server etc. and provide a relevant answer or send links or documents back to the requestor via the query processor module.

The single agent portal provides access for assisted care agents using a search function that directly or indirectly invokes the integrated knowledge management system knowledge base via a care application s user interface e.g. CRM diagnostic testing systems etc. . The assisted care agents are not required to logon to any backend knowledge management system or even to know the existence of any external knowledge management systems.

The external interface domain for the customer care applications supports a pre defined format to craft a trouble care flow. The knowledge management output may become an input to a care system to be converted into a step by step flow for providing guided help. When a care application has partially completed execution of particular trouble shooting functions and needs assistance to continue operations it may access knowledge management resources via the external interface domain for this assistance in real time.

The external interface domain for the KPI applications provide key performance raw data or pre generated reports to the external KPI applications which integrate knowledge management KPIs with other KPI data stored in a data warehouse e.g. to generate enterprise wide analytical reports. Optionally the integrated knowledge management system may retrieve business intelligence reports on behalf of a requestor in the care domain.

Turning now to a process for implementing the integrated knowledge management system will now be described. At step an access interface is configured for communications between each of corresponding one or more external domains and a knowledge management system via the integrated knowledge management application . At step an access interface is configured for communications between corresponding one or more access channels and the knowledge management system via the integrated knowledge management application . In response to a request for information via the knowledge engine from at least one of the access interfaces at step the knowledge engine searches one or more knowledge bases e.g. care knowledge base knowledge sources at step and provides a response to the request for information as a result of the search at step . As indicated above the integrated knowledge management system utilizes components of the domains and to process information from the request search the appropriate content sources retrieve relevant responsive information and re format the responsive information according to criteria including the capabilities characteristics of the requesting source as well as authoring configuration classifications provided by the system. A search query relating to the request may first be created and implemented for internal knowledge sources and if the search results are not satisfactory or otherwise not fully responsive to the request a second search query may be created and implemented for external knowledge sources thereby expanding the knowledge base.

As described above by providing the integrated knowledge management system infrastructure user devices that span varying types of access channels as well as relevant business organizations may benefit from a cohesive information source thereby providing improved customer experiences upon encountering any issues with products services operational efficiencies reducing operational costs and increasing customer retention rates.

As described above embodiments can be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. In exemplary embodiments the invention is embodied in computer program code executed by one or more network elements. Embodiments include computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. Embodiments include computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

