---

title: Systems and methods for using social network data to determine payment fraud
abstract: A computer-implemented method for analyzing potentially fraudulent e-commerce payment transactions utilizing social media data is provided. The method uses a fraud monitoring device in communication with a memory. The method includes receiving a request to assess the fraud risk of an online transaction initiated by a cardholder using a payment card and accessing a social media account associated with the cardholder. The social media account includes a circle of friends, where each friend in the circle of friends is associated with a social media account. The method also includes determining one or more historical transactions associated with at least one friend in the circle of friends, calculating a social risk score for the cardholder based in part on the determined one or more historical transactions, and transmitting a consolidated risk assessment of the online transaction based in part on the social risk score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418365&OS=09418365&RS=09418365
owner: MasterCard International Incorporated
number: 09418365
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140908
---
The field of the disclosure relates generally to enhanced security surrounding online payment card transactions and more specifically to method and systems for incorporating social network data into a fraud risk assessment for payment transactions.

Fraudulent payment transactions impose significant costs on users of a payment network including merchants banks and individual cardholders. Accordingly known payment networks often employ fraud prevention systems to flag or deny potentially fraudulent payment transactions. For example when an online merchant receives an online purchase request many online merchants determine whether to proceed or not with the purchase request based on a fraud risk analysis. The fraud risk analysis can involve analyzing information such as but not limited to payment account browser or native device information shipping address IP address and email address. This fraud risk analysis is an effort to determine if the purchase is fraudulent or not.

If the purchaser has previously shopped at the merchant or merchant s agent then the fraud risk analysis becomes easier and is more likely to result in a successful outcome because the merchant has a prior relationship with the purchaser. Therefore the merchant has information about previous transactions to apply to the information above. Not having this previous transaction information the fraud risk analysis of the first purchase is harder for the merchant to determine if the purchase is genuine or not. Thus the first purchase has a far higher probability of being not allowed by the merchant s fraud risk analysis.

Social media networks provide a digital identity that can be used to identify an individual and provide means for connection different people together. These people usually have things in common and in a lot of cases are connected in real life as well as in the social network space. Among the common things that people have in common is spending patterns. Individually these connected people may be referred to as the individual s friends also known as connections contacts and followers and collectively as the individual s circle of friends.

In one aspect a computer implemented method for analyzing potentially fraudulent e commerce payment transactions utilizing social media data is provided. The method uses a fraud monitoring device in communication with a memory. The method includes receiving by the fraud monitoring device a request to assess the fraud risk of an online transaction initiated by a cardholder using a payment card. The fraud risk request includes a cardholder identifier. The method also includes accessing a social media account associated with the cardholder based at least in part on the cardholder identifier. The social media account includes a circle of friends where each friend in the circle of friends is associated with a social media account. The method further includes determining one or more historical transactions associated with at least one friend in the circle of friends calculating by the fraud monitoring device a social risk score for the cardholder based in part on the determined one or more historical transactions and transmitting by the fraud monitoring device a consolidated risk assessment of the online transaction based in part on the social risk score.

In another aspect a computer system for analyzing potentially fraudulent e commerce payment transactions utilizing social media data is provided. The computer system includes a memory device for storing data and one or more processors in communication with said memory device. The one or more processors are programmed to receive a request to assess the fraud risk of an online transaction initiated by a cardholder using a payment card. The fraud risk request includes a cardholder identifier. The one or more processors are also programmed to access a social media account associated with the cardholder based at least in part on the cardholder identifier. The social media account includes a circle of friends where each friend in the circle of friends is associated with a social media account. The one or more processors are further programmed to determine one or more historical transactions associated with at least one friend in the circle of friends calculate a social risk score for the cardholder based in part on the determined one or more historical transactions and transmit a consolidated risk assessment of the online transaction based in part on the social risk score.

In yet another aspect a computer readable storage medium having computer executable instructions embodied thereon is provided. When executed by a computing device having at least one processor coupled to a memory device the computer executable instructions cause the processor to receive a request to assess the fraud risk of an online transaction initiated by a cardholder using a payment card. The fraud risk request includes a cardholder identifier. The computer executable instructions also cause the processor to access a social media account associated with the cardholder based at least in part on the cardholder identifier. The social media account includes a circle of friends where each friend in the circle of friends is associated with a social media account. The computer executable instructions further cause the processor to determine one or more historical transactions associated with at least one friend in the circle of friends calculate a social risk score for the cardholder based in part on the determined one or more historical transactions and transmit a consolidated risk assessment of the online transaction based in part on the social risk score.

Embodiments of the present disclosure describe a payment network that processes payment transactions performed between a merchant and a cardholder. The payment network includes a fraud monitoring device that facilitates identifying fraudulent payment transactions performed over the payment network using the social media connection data of the cardholder. More specifically the fraud monitoring device retrieves social media connection data of the cardholder e.g. the cardholder s circle of friends and determines the transaction history of one or more of the cardholder s friends to calculate a social risk score. The fraud monitoring device is further configured to determine whether the payment transaction is fraudulent based on the results of the social risk score.

As used herein the term social media data means any data associated with a social media account of a cardholder for example date of birth high school attended etc. As used herein the term social media connection data includes any data associated with a social media account of the cardholder that indicates the other social media accounts that the cardholder has connected with. For example social media connection data may be identifying information to identify some or all of the members of the cardholder s circle of friends.

In the example embodiment a cardholder registers with a social media payment processing program running on a fraud monitoring device. The fraud monitoring system receives registration information from the cardholder including a social media identifier for a social media account and a cardholder identifier. The social media account may be a cardholder account for any type of social media for example social networking blogging micro blogging professional networking status updating internet forum communications etc. The social media identifier is a unique alphanumeric series that identifies an individual social media account e.g. a link or an email. The cardholder identifier could be the cardholder s payment account number or other unique identifier that represents the cardholder s payment card account. The fraud monitoring device associates the social media identifier and the cardholder identifier and stores them in a database. The fraud monitoring device may be associated with an individual merchant or a payment card processing network.

As part of processing an ecommerce payment transaction the individual merchant or the payment card processing network use the fraud monitoring device to determine whether the transaction is fraudulent. The fraud monitoring device receives the transaction data which includes a cardholder identifier. In the example embodiment the fraud monitoring device associates the cardholder with a social media account based on the cardholder identifier. In other embodiments the fraud monitoring device receives the social media identifier along with the transaction data.

The fraud monitoring device accesses at least a portion of the social media account of the cardholder and retrieves social media connection data. The fraud monitoring device transmits the social media identifier to a social media computing device to access the social media account associated with the cardholder. In the example embodiment the fraud monitoring device executes one or more application programming interfaces API to access social media information about the social media account. In other embodiments the fraud monitoring device logs directly into the social media account.

With access to the social media account the fraud monitoring device calculates a personal risk score for the transaction based at least in part on information in the social media account. In the example embodiment the fraud monitoring device determines one or more historical payment card transactions associated with the cardholder based on data in the cardholder s social media account. In one example the cardholder registered more than one cardholder identifier where each cardholder identifier represents a different payment card account with the social media identifier. In this example the fraud monitoring device retrieves the additional cardholder identifiers from the database determines one or more historical payment transactions associated with those additional cardholder identifiers and uses those transactions to calculate the personal risk score. In another example the transaction data does not include the cardholder s name or other personally identifying information. From the social media account the fraud monitoring device determines the identity of the cardholder and determines one or more additional payment card accounts associated with the cardholder. Using the one or more additional payment card accounts the fraud monitoring device determines one or more historical payment card transactions and uses those transactions to calculate the personal risk score.

In other embodiments the fraud monitoring device accesses the social media account to determine other information about the cardholder such as but not limited to address IP address email address and other information about a cardholder computing device. For example the fraud monitoring device compares the cardholder computing device to a client system that is being used to conduct the payment transaction in question. If the devices match then the fraud monitoring device calculates the personal risk score to indicate that. If for example the IP addresses indicate that the cardholder computing device is located in Montana and the client system is in Florida then the fraud monitoring device calculates the personal risk score to reflect that. In further embodiments the fraud monitoring device accesses the cardholder s social media account to access the cardholder s browser history. For example if the payment transaction is for a carpet then fraud monitoring device reviews the cardholder s browser history to determine if the cardholder has an interest in carpets and calculates the personal risk score to reflect that interest or the lack thereof. The fraud monitoring device is not limited to only using one of the above embodiments but may use any combination of the above embodiments to calculate the cardholder s personal risk score.

The fraud monitoring device accesses the cardholder s social media account from the social media computing device to retrieve the cardholder s circle of friends. In the example embodiment the fraud monitoring device determines a social media identifier associated with a friend in the circle of friends where the friend registered the social media identifier with the social media payment processing program on the fraud monitoring device. The fraud monitoring device retrieves the friend s card identifier from the database. Using the friend s retrieved cardholder identifier the fraud monitoring device determines at least one payment card account associated with the friend. In other embodiments the fraud monitoring device uses the friend s social media identifier to access the friend s social media account to determine an identity for the friend. Using that determined identity the fraud monitoring device determines at least one payment card account associated with the friend.

The fraud monitoring device determines one or more historical transactions associated with the determined payment card account. Using those historical transactions the fraud monitoring device calculates a social risk score for the transaction. Although the example embodiment only describes calculating a social risk score for one friend of the cardholder s circle of friends historical transactions for multiple friends may be used to calculate the social risk score. The more fraudulent transactions that are found in the cardholder s circle of friends the higher the likelihood that the payment transaction is fraudulent.

In some embodiments the fraud monitoring device is associated with the merchant and receives the transaction data directly from the merchant. In these embodiments the fraud monitoring device determines an identity for one or more of the friends in the circle of friends. Based on the determined identities the fraud monitoring device analyzes the merchant s past transactions with the identified friends and calculates the social risk score based on those past transactions.

The fraud monitoring device generates a consolidated risk assessment of the payment transaction based on the personal risk score and the social risk score. In the example embodiment the fraud monitoring device transmits the consolidated risk assessment to the device that the transaction action was received from i.e. the merchant or the payment network.

In situations in which the systems discussed herein collect personal information about the cardholder or may make use of personal information the cardholder may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect the personal information e.g. information about a cardholder s social network social actions or activities profession interests preferences or current location . In addition social media data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a cardholder s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the cardholder in addition a cardholder s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as a city a ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of the cardholder cannot be determined. In addition the cardholder may control what type of information is available to the system. For example the cardholder may allow access to all social media data. Alternatively the cardholder may allow access only to social media connection data. Thus the cardholder may have control over how information is collected about the cardholder and used by the fraud monitoring device.

In some embodiments system stores transaction data or social media data without including sensitive personal information also known as personally identifiable information or PII in order to ensure the privacy of individuals associated with the stored data. Personally identifiable information may include any information capable of identifying an individual. For privacy and security reasons personally identifiable information may be withheld from the cardholder profiles. In some examples where privacy and security such as through encryption can otherwise be ensured or where individuals consent personally identifiable information may be retained in the cardholder profiles. In such examples personally identifiable information may be needed to reports about groups of cardholders. In situations in which the systems discussed herein collect personal information about individuals including cardholders or merchants or may make use of such personal information the individuals may be provided with an opportunity to control whether such information is collected or to control whether and or how such information is used. In addition certain data may be processed in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example an individual s identity may be processed so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the individual or an individual s geographic location may be generalized where location data is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of an individual cannot be determined. Thus the individual may have control over how information is collected about the individual and used by systems including the travel application.

The methods and systems described herein may be implemented using computer programming or engineering techniques including computer software firmware hardware or any combination or subset wherein a technical effect of the systems and processes described herein is achieved by performing at least one of the following steps a receiving registration information from a cardholder including a social media identifier and a payment card account identifier b storing the social media identifier and the payment card account identifier in a database c receiving a request to assess the fraud risk of an online transaction initiated by a cardholder using a payment card d accessing a social media account that is associated with the cardholder e calculating a personal risk score for the cardholder based in part on the social media account associated with the cardholder f determining a social media identifier associated with a friend in the circle of friends g determining at least one payment card associated with the friend h determining one or more historical transactions associated with the friend based on the at least one payment card i calculate a social risk score for the cardholder based on the determined one or more transactions j generating a consolidated risk assessment of the transaction based on the personal risk score and the social risk score k transmit the consolidated risk assessment and increasing the accuracy of fraud risk assessment for online transactions.

As used herein the terms transaction card financial transaction card and payment card refer to any suitable transaction card such as a credit card a debit card a prepaid card a charge card a membership card a promotional card a frequent flyer card an identification card a gift card and or any other device that may hold payment account information such as mobile phones Smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs key fobs and or computers. Each type of transactions card can be used as a method of payment for performing a transaction.

In one embodiment a computer program is provided and the program is embodied on a computer readable medium. In an example embodiment the system is executed on a single computer system without requiring a connection to a server computer. In a further example embodiment the system is being run in a Windows environment Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. . In yet another embodiment the system is run on a mainframe environment and a UNIX server environment UNIX is a registered trademark of X Open Company Limited located in Reading Berkshire United Kingdom . In a further embodiment the system is run on an iOS environment iOS is a registered trademark of Cisco Systems Inc. located in San Jose Calif. . In yet a further embodiment the system is run on a Mac OS environment Mac OS is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. located in Cupertino Calif. . The application is flexible and designed to run in various different environments without compromising any major functionality. In some embodiments the system includes multiple components distributed among a plurality of computing devices. One or more components are in the form of computer executable instructions embodied in a computer readable medium. The systems and processes are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. In addition components of each system and each process can be practiced independently and separately from other components and processes described herein. Each component and process can also be used in combination with other assembly packages and processes.

In one embodiment a computer program is provided and the program is embodied on a computer readable medium and utilizes a Structured Query Language SQL with a client user interface front end for administration and a web interface for standard user input and reports. In another embodiment the system is web enabled and is run on a business entity intranet. In yet another embodiment the system is fully accessed by individuals having an authorized access outside the firewall of the business entity through the Internet. In a further embodiment the system is being run in a Windows environment Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. . The application is flexible and designed to run in various different environments without compromising any major functionality.

As used herein an element or step recited in the singular and preceded with the word a or an should be understood as not excluding plural elements or steps unless such exclusion is explicitly recited. Furthermore references to example embodiment or one embodiment of the present disclosure are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features.

As used herein the term database may refer to either a body of data a relational database management system RDBMS or to both. A database may include any collection of data including hierarchical databases relational databases flat file databases object relational databases object oriented databases and any other structured collection of records or data that is stored in a computer system. The above examples are for example only and thus are not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of the term database. Examples of RDBMS s include but are not limited to including Oracle Database MySQL IBM DB2 Microsoft SQL Server Sybase and PostgreSQL. However any database may be used that enables the systems and methods described herein. Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and Sybase is a registered trademark of Sybase Dublin Calif. 

The term processor as used herein may refer to central processing units microprocessors microcontrollers reduced instruction set circuits RISC application specific integrated circuits ASIC logic circuits and any other circuit or processor capable of executing the functions described herein.

As used herein the terms software and firmware are interchangeable and include any computer program stored in memory for execution by a processor including RAM memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory and non volatile RAM NVRAM memory. The above memory types are for example only and are thus not limiting as to the types of memory usable for storage of a computer program.

In a typical transaction card system a financial institution called the issuer issues a transaction card such as a credit card to a consumer or cardholder who uses the transaction card to tender payment for a purchase from a merchant . To accept payment with the transaction card merchant must normally establish an account with a financial institution that is part of the financial payment system. This financial institution is usually called the merchant bank the acquiring bank or the acquirer. When cardholder tenders payment for a purchase with a transaction card merchant requests authorization from a merchant bank for the amount of the purchase. The request may be performed over the telephone but is usually performed through the use of a point of sale terminal which reads cardholder s account information from a magnetic stripe a chip or embossed characters on the transaction card and communicates electronically with the transaction processing computers of merchant bank . Alternatively merchant bank may authorize a third party to perform transaction processing on its behalf. In this case the point of sale terminal will be configured to communicate with the third party. Such a third party is usually called a merchant processor an acquiring processor or a third party processor. 

Using an interchange network computers of merchant bank or merchant processor will communicate with computers of an issuer bank to determine whether cardholder s account is in good standing and whether the purchase is covered by cardholder s available credit line. Based on these determinations the request for authorization will be declined or accepted. If the request is accepted an authorization code is issued to merchant .

When a request for authorization is accepted the available credit line of cardholder s account is decreased. Normally a charge for a payment card transaction is not posted immediately to cardholder s account because bankcard associations such as MasterCard International Incorporated have promulgated rules that do not allow merchant to charge or capture a transaction until goods are shipped or services are delivered. However with respect to at least some debit card transactions a charge may be posted at the time of the transaction. When merchant ships or delivers the goods or services merchant captures the transaction by for example appropriate data entry procedures on the point of sale terminal. This may include bundling of approved transactions daily for standard retail purchases. If cardholder cancels a transaction before it is captured a void is generated. If cardholder returns goods after the transaction has been captured a credit is generated. Interchange network and or issuer bank stores the transaction card information such as a category of merchant a merchant identifier a location where the transaction was completed amount of purchase date and time of transaction in a database shown in .

After a purchase has been made a clearing process occurs to transfer additional transaction data related to the purchase among the parties to the transaction such as merchant bank interchange network and issuer bank . More specifically during and or after the clearing process additional data such as a time of purchase a merchant name a type of merchant purchase information cardholder account information a type of transaction itinerary information information regarding the purchased item and or service and or other suitable information is associated with a transaction and transmitted between parties to the transaction as transaction data and may be stored by any of the parties to the transaction. In the example embodiment when cardholder purchases travel such as airfare a hotel stay and or a rental car at least partial itinerary information is transmitted during the clearance process as transaction data. When interchange network receives the itinerary information interchange network routes the itinerary information to database .

For debit card transactions when a request for a personal identification number PIN authorization is approved by the issuer cardholder s account is decreased. Normally a charge is posted immediately to cardholder s account . The payment card association then transmits the approval to the acquiring processor for distribution of goods services or information or cash in the case of an automated teller machine ATM .

After a transaction is authorized and cleared the transaction is settled among merchant merchant bank and issuer bank . Settlement refers to the transfer of financial data or funds among merchant s account merchant bank and issuer bank related to the transaction. Usually transactions are captured and accumulated into a batch which is settled as a group. More specifically a transaction is typically settled between issuer bank and interchange network and then between interchange network and merchant bank and then between merchant bank and merchant .

In the example embodiment payment sub system includes server system and a plurality of client systems connected to server system . In one embodiment client systems are computers including a web browser such that server system is accessible to client systems using the Internet. Client systems are interconnected to the Internet through many interfaces including a network such as a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN dial in connections cable modems and special high speed Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN lines. Client systems could be any device capable of interconnecting to the Internet including but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular phone a smartphone a tablet a phablet or other web based connectable equipment.

Payment sub system also includes point of sale POS terminals which may be connected to client systems and may be connected to server system . POS terminals are interconnected to the Internet through many interfaces including a network such as a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN dial in connections cable modems wireless modems and special high speed ISDN lines. POS terminals could be any device capable of interconnecting to the Internet and including an input device capable of reading information from a consumer s payment card.

A database server is connected to database which contains information on a variety of matters as described below in greater detail. In one embodiment centralized database is stored on server system and can be accessed by potential users at one of client systems by logging onto server system through one of client systems . In an alternative embodiment database is stored remotely from server system and may be non centralized.

Database may include a single database having separated sections or partitions or may include multiple databases each being separate from each other. Database may store transaction data generated as part of sales activities conducted over the processing network including data relating to merchants account holders or customers issuers acquirers and or purchases made. For example database stores transaction data including at least one of timestamp data indicative of a time a payment transaction occurred purchase data indicative of a product i.e. a good or service that has been purchased and or leased purchase amount data indicative of an amount of funds transferred as part of the payment transaction merchant data including a merchant identifier that identifies the merchant and or merchant location associated with the payment transaction and or cardholder data including at least one of a cardholder name a cardholder address a PAN and any other account identifying information. Database may store the merchant identifier in a list that identifies each merchant registered to use the network and instructions for settling transactions including merchant bank account information. Database may also store cardholder identifiers and social media identifiers for cardholders who have registered with a social media payment processing program.

Services sub system includes cardholder computing device and social media computing device . Social media computing device is configured to communicate with at least one of server system client systems cardholder computing device and fraud monitoring device . In the example embodiment social media computing device is associated with or controlled by a social media provider. The social media provider may store social media data for a plurality of social media accounts on social media computing device . For example social media computing device may host a social and or professional networking service that is accessed by cardholders using cardholder computing devices to perform social media activities. To enhance cardholder services social media computing device may store a circle of friends of the cardholder. Social media computing device is interconnected to the Internet through many interfaces including a network such as a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN dial in connections cable modems wireless modems and special high speed ISDN lines. Social media computing device could be any device capable of interconnecting to the Internet but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular phone a smartphone a tablet a phablet or other web based connectable equipment. In one embodiment social media computing device is configured to communicate with client system and or cardholder computing device using various outputs including for example Bluetooth communication radio frequency communication near field communication network based communication and the like. More specifically in one embodiment social media computing device communicates with cardholder computing device through a website associated with the social media provider.

In the example embodiment cardholder computing device is a computer that includes a web browser or a software application which enables cardholder computing device to access social media computing device using the Internet. More specifically cardholder computing device is communicatively coupled to the Internet through many interfaces including but not limited to at least one of a network such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an integrated services digital network ISDN a dial up connection a digital subscriber line DSL a cellular phone connection and a cable modem. Cardholder computing device can be any device capable of accessing the Internet including but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular phone a smartphone a tablet a phablet or other web based connectable equipment.

System also includes fraud monitoring device that is in communication with payment sub system and or services sub system . Fraud monitoring device may be a stand alone computing device that includes a processor and a memory and is configured to communicate with server system client system cardholder computing device social media computing device and or database . Alternatively fraud monitoring device may be integrated with server system . Fraud monitoring device facilitates identifying fraudulent payment transactions performed with payment sub system based on social media connection data stored on social media computing device . More specifically fraud monitoring device retrieves social media connection data of cardholder e.g. the cardholder s circle of friends and determines the transaction history of one or more of the cardholder s friends to calculate a social risk score. Fraud monitoring device is further configured to determine whether the payment transaction is fraudulent based on the results of the social risk score. In one embodiment fraud monitoring device is associated with or is part of the payment system or in communication with interchange network both shown in . In another embodiment fraud monitoring device is associated with a third party and is merely in communication with the interchange network . In a further embodiment fraud monitoring device is associated with or in communication with merchant shown in .

User computer device also includes at least one media output component for presenting information to user . Media output component is any component capable of conveying information to user . In some embodiments media output component includes an output adapter not shown such as a video adapter and or an audio adapter. An output adapter is operatively coupled to processor and operatively coupleable to an output device such as a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED display or electronic ink display or an audio output device e.g. a speaker or headphones . In some embodiments media output component is configured to present a graphical user interface e.g. a web browser and or a client application to user . A graphical user interface may include for example an online store interface for viewing and or purchasing items and or a wallet application for managing payment information. In some embodiments user computer device includes an input device for receiving input from user . User may use input device to without limitation select and or enter one or more items to purchase and or a purchase request or to access credential information and or payment information. Input device may include for example a keyboard a pointing device a mouse a stylus a touch sensitive panel e.g. a touch pad or a touch screen a gyroscope an accelerometer a position detector a biometric input device and or an audio input device. A single component such as a touch screen may function as both an output device of media output component and input device .

User computer device may also include a communication interface communicatively coupled to a remote device such as server system shown in . Communication interface may include for example a wired or wireless network adapter and or a wireless data transceiver for use with a mobile telecommunications network.

Stored in memory area are for example computer readable instructions for providing a user interface to user via media output component and optionally receiving and processing input from input device . A user interface may include among other possibilities a web browser and or a client application. Web browsers enable users such as user to display and interact with media and other information typically embedded on a web page or a website from server system . A client application allows user to interact with for example server system . For example instructions may be stored by a cloud service and the output of the execution of the instructions sent to the media output component .

Processor executes computer executable instructions for implementing aspects of the disclosure. In some embodiments the processor is transformed into a special purpose microprocessor by executing computer executable instructions or by otherwise being programmed. For example the processor is programmed with the instruction such as illustrated in .

Processor is operatively coupled to a communication interface such that server computer device is capable of communicating with a remote device such as another server computer device client systems or fraud monitoring device both shown in . For example communication interface may receive requests from fraud monitoring device via the Internet as illustrated in .

Processor may also be operatively coupled to a storage device . Storage device is any computer operated hardware suitable for storing and or retrieving data such as but not limited to data associated with database shown in . In some embodiments storage device is integrated in server computer device . For example server computer device may include one or more hard disk drives as storage device . In other embodiments storage device is external to server computer device and may be accessed by a plurality of server computer devices . For example storage device may include a storage area network SAN a network attached storage NAS system and or multiple storage units such as hard disks and or solid state disks in a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID configuration.

In some embodiments processor is operatively coupled to storage device via a storage interface . Storage interface is any component capable of providing processor with access to storage device . Storage interface may include for example an Advanced Technology Attachment ATA adapter a Serial ATA SATA adapter a Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapter a RAID controller a SAN adapter a network adapter and or any component providing processor with access to storage device .

In the example embodiment fraud monitoring device receives registration information that includes a social media identifier and a cardholder identifier associated with cardholder . The social media identifier is a unique alphanumeric series that identifies an individual social media account e.g. a link or an email. The cardholder identifier could be the cardholder s payment account number or other unique identifier that represents the cardholder s payment card account. In the example embodiment cardholder uses cardholder computing device shown in to register with the social media payment processing program on fraud monitoring device . Fraud monitoring device associates the social media identifier with the cardholder identifier. Fraud monitoring device stores the social media identifier and the cardholder identifier in database shown in .

Fraud monitoring device determines a social media account associated with cardholder . In the example embodiment cardholder previously registered with fraud monitoring device for the social media payment processing program as described in . In the example embodiment fraud monitoring device retrieves the social media identifier that is associated with the cardholder identifier from database shown in . In other embodiments the request includes a social media identifier which identifies at least one social media account that cardholder has with at least one social media network. Fraud monitoring device transmits the social media identifier to social media computing device shown in to access the social media account associated with cardholder . In the example embodiment fraud monitoring device executes one or more application programming interfaces API to access social media information about the social media account. In other embodiments fraud monitoring device logs directly into the social media account.

With access to the social media account fraud monitoring device calculates a personal risk score for the transaction based at least in part on information in the social media account. In the example embodiment fraud monitoring device determines one or more historical payment card transactions associated with cardholder based on data in the cardholder s social media account. In one example cardholder registered more than one cardholder identifier where each cardholder identifier represents a different payment card account with the social media identifier. In this example fraud monitoring device retrieves the additional cardholder identifiers from database determines one or more historical payment transactions associated with those additional cardholder identifiers and uses those transactions to calculate the personal risk score. In another example the request does not include the cardholder s name or other personally identifying information. From the social media account fraud monitoring device determines the identity of cardholder and determines one or more additional payment card accounts associated with cardholder . Using the one or more additional payment card accounts fraud monitoring device determines one or more historical payment card transactions and uses those transactions to calculate the personal risk score.

In other embodiments fraud monitoring device accesses the social media account to determine other information about cardholder such as but not limited to address IP address email address and other information about the cardholder computing device shown in . For example fraud monitoring device compares cardholder computing device to client system shown in that is being used to conduct the payment transaction in question. If the devices match then fraud monitoring device calculates the personal risk score to indicate that. If for example the IP addresses indicate that cardholder computing device is located in Montana and client system is in Florida then fraud monitoring device calculates the personal risk score to reflect that. In further embodiments fraud monitoring device accesses the cardholder s social media account to access the cardholder s browser history. For example if the payment transaction is for a carpet then fraud monitoring device reviews the cardholder s browser history to determine if cardholder has an interest in carpets and calculates the personal risk score to reflect that interest or the lack thereof. Fraud monitoring device is not limited to only using one of the above embodiments but may use any combination of the above embodiments to calculate the cardholder s personal risk score.

Fraud monitoring device accesses the cardholder s social media account from social media computing device to retrieve the cardholder s circle of friends. In the example embodiment fraud monitoring device determines a social media identifier associated with a friend in the circle of friends where the friend registered the social media identifier with the social media payment processing program on fraud monitoring device as described in . Fraud monitoring device retrieves the friend s card identifier from database . Using the friend s retrieved cardholder identifier fraud monitoring device determines at least one payment card account associated with the friend. In other embodiments fraud monitoring device uses the friend s social media identifier to access the friend s social media account to determine an identity for the friend. Using that determined identity fraud monitoring device determines at least one payment card account associated with the friend.

Fraud monitoring device determines one or more historical transactions associated with the determined payment card account. Using those historical transactions fraud monitoring device calculates a social risk score for the transaction. Although the example embodiment only describes calculating a social risk score for one friend of the cardholder s circle of friends historical transactions for multiple friends may be used to calculate the social risk score. The more fraudulent transactions that are found in the cardholder s circle of friends the higher the likelihood that the payment transaction is fraudulent.

In some embodiments fraud monitoring device is associated with merchant and receives the request directly from merchant . In these embodiments fraud monitoring device determines an identity for one or more of the friends in the circle of friends. Based on the determined identities fraud monitoring device analyzes merchant s past transactions with the identified friends and calculates the social risk score based on those past transactions.

Fraud monitoring device generates a consolidated risk assessment of the payment transaction based on the personal risk score and the social risk score. In the example embodiment fraud monitoring device transmits the consolidated risk assessment to the device that the request was received from i.e. merchant merchant bank interchange network or issuer bank .

Computing device includes the database as well as data storage devices . Computing device also includes a communication component for receiving a request transmitting the consolidated risk assessment both shown in and receiving registration information shown in . Computing device also includes a determining component for determining a social media account determining a social media identifier determining at least one payment card account and determining one or more historical transactions all shown in . A calculating component is also included for calculating a personal risk score and calculating a social risk score both shown in . An associating component is further included for associating the social media indicator with the cardholder indicator shown in . Moreover a generating component is included for generating the consolidated risk assessment as shown in . A processing component assists with execution of computer executable instructions associated with the system.

The systems and processes are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. In addition components of each system and each process can be practiced independent and separate from other components and processes described herein. Each component and process also can be used in combination with other assembly packages and processes.

Having described aspects of the disclosure in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the disclosure it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

While the disclosure has been described in terms of various specific embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the claims.

As will be appreciated based on the foregoing specification the above described embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented using computer programming or engineering techniques including computer software firmware hardware or any combination or subset thereof. Any such resulting program having computer readable code means may be embodied or provided within one or more computer readable media thereby making a computer program product i.e. an article of manufacture according to the discussed embodiments of the disclosure. Example computer readable media may be but are not limited to a flash memory drive digital versatile disc DVD compact disc CD fixed hard drive diskette optical disk magnetic tape semiconductor memory such as read only memory ROM and or any transmitting receiving medium such as the Internet or other communication network or link. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer readable storage media and communication media. Computer readable storage media are tangible and non transitory and store information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data. Communication media in contrast typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a transitory modulated signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Combinations of any of the above are also included in the scope of computer readable media. The article of manufacture containing the computer code may be made and or used by executing the code directly from one medium by copying the code from one medium to another medium or by transmitting the code over a network.

This written description uses examples to disclose the embodiments including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the embodiments including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the disclosure is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

