---

title: Cytotoxic and anti-mitotic compounds, and methods of using the same
abstract: 

including stereoisomers, pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof, wherein R, R, R, Rand Rare as defined herein. Methods associated with preparation and use of such compounds, as well as pharmaceutical compositions comprising such compounds, are also disclosed. Also disclosed are compositions having the structure: (T)-(L)-(D), wherein (T) is a targeting moiety, (L) is an optional linker, and (D) is a compound having structure (I).

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09522876&OS=09522876&RS=09522876
owner: ZYMEWORKS INC.
number: 09522876
owner_city: Vancouver, BC
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 792 020 filed Mar. 15 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 792 066 filed Mar. 15 2013 the disclosure of each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to biologically active compounds compositions comprising the same and methods of using such biologically active compounds and compositions for the treatment of cancer and other diseases.

Talpir R. et al. 1994 Tetrahedron Lett. 35 4453 6 describe the naturally occurring compound hemiasterlin a stable tripeptide obtained from marine sponges that causes microtubule depolymerization and mitotic arrest in cells. Hemisasterlin consists of unusual and highly congested amino acids features thought to contribute to its activity. A number of groups have modified particular structural elements of hemiasterlin to evaluate structure activity relationships and assess the activity of hemiasterlin analogs. See for example Zask et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 14 4353 4358 2004 Zask et al. J Med Chem 47 4774 4786 2004 Yamashita et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 14 5317 5322 2004 PCT GB96 00942 WO 2004 026293 WO96 33211 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 579 323.

Analogs of hemiasterlin with modifications in the A segment or the amino terminal segment have been described see for example Zask et al. J Med Chem 47 4774 4786 2004 Yamashita et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 14 5317 5322 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 7 579 323 . U.S. Pat. No. 7 579 323 discloses an analog of hemiasterlin referred to as HT1 286 in which the indole moiety is replaced by a phenyl group. HT1 286 exhibits potent anti mitotic activity and has been assessed in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer Ratain et al. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 22 129 2003 .

Analogs of hemiasterlin with modifications in the D segment or the carboxy terminal segment have also been reported see for example WO 2004 026293 Zask et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 14 4353 4358 2004 Zask et al. J Med Chem 47 4774 4786 2004 . The majority of modifications at the carboxy terminus result in compounds with substantially decreased potency compared to parent carboxylic acids. See for example WO 2004 026293 particularly Table 12. Zask et al. J Med Chem 47 4774 4786 2004 also report that amide analogs prepared using simple cyclic and acyclic amines exhibit significantly reduced potency reductions of one to three orders of magnitude . Among the few tolerated modifications Zask et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 14 4353 4358 2004 report that the addition of esterified cyclic amino acids at the carboxy terminus yields tetrapeptide analogs with prolyl like ester containing termini some of which exhibit potency comparable to parent compound in a tested cancer cell line.

Potent cytotoxic and anti mitotic compositions are highly desired for the treatment of a number of devastating disorders including cancer. While a wide variety of hemiasterlin analogs have been generated many including a wide variety of compounds with modifications at the carboxy terminus exhibit reduced potency that limits utility in methods of medical treatment.

For the foregoing reasons while progress has been made in this field there is a need for additional potent anti mitotic and cytotoxic compounds having preferred characteristics that render them suitable for the treatment of a variety of disorders including cancer. The present disclosure fulfills these needs and provides further related advantages.

In brief the present disclosure is directed to biologically active compounds compositions comprising the same and methods of using such compounds and compositions.

Ris selected from the group consisting of optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkylamino optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heterocyclyl and optionally substituted heteroaryl 

Ris selected from the group consisting of optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkylamino optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heterocyclyl and optionally substituted heteroaryl 

In one embodiment the invention provides a compound exhibiting an ECmore potent than that of HTI 286.

In another embodiment a pharmaceutical composition is provided comprising a compound having structure I or a stereoisomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

In another embodiment a method of using a compound having structure I in therapy is provided. In particular the present disclosure provides a method of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a compound having structure I or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound having structure I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of inhibiting tumor growth in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a compound having structure I or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound having structure I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient. These and other aspects of the disclosure will be apparent upon reference to the following detailed description.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of killing cancer cells in vitro using a compound having structure I . In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of killing cancer cells in vivo in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a compound having structure I or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound having structure I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

In one embodiment the invention provides compositions having the following structure T L D II wherein T is a targeting moiety L is an optional linker and D is a compound having structure I or a stereoisomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. D is covalently attached to L if L is present or T if L is not present.

In one embodiment the targeting moiety is an antibody. Accordingly in one embodiment antibody drug conjugates ADCs comprising compounds having structure I or a stereoisomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof are provided.

In another embodiment a pharmaceutical composition is provided comprising a composition having structure II or a stereoisomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

In another embodiment a method of using a composition having structure I in therapy is provided. In particular the present disclosure provides a method of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a composition having structure II or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a composition having structure II and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of inhibiting tumor growth in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a composition having structure II or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a composition having structure II and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of killing cancer cells in vitro using a composition having structure II . In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of killing cancer cells in vivo in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a composition having structure II or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a composition having structure II and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

These and other aspects of the disclosure will be apparent upon reference to the following detailed description.

In the following description certain specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. However one skilled in the art will understand that the disclosure may be practiced without these details.

Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the present specification and claims the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprises and comprising are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to .

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Unless stated otherwise the following terms and phrases as used herein are intended to have the following meanings. When trade names are used herein applicants intend to independently include the trade name product formulation the generic drug and the active pharmaceutical ingredient s of the trade name product.

 Alkyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain substituent consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms which is saturated or unsaturated i.e. contains one or more double and or triple bonds having from one to twelve carbon atoms C Calkyl preferably one to eight carbon atoms C Calkyl or one to six carbon atoms C Calkyl and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl 1 methylethyl iso propyl n butyl n pentyl 1 1 dimethylethyl t butyl 3 methylhexyl 2 methylhexyl ethenyl prop 1 enyl but 1 enyl pent 1 enyl penta 1 4 dienyl ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Alkylene or alkylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a substituent group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen which is saturated or unsaturated i.e. contains one or more double and or triple bonds and having from one to twelve carbon atoms e.g. methylene ethylene propylene n butylene ethenylene propenylene n butenylene propynylene n butynylene and the like. The alkylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a single or double bond and to the substituent group through a single or double bond. The points of attachment of the alkylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the substituent group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylene chain may be optionally substituted.

 Alkoxy refers to a substituent of the formula ORwhere Ris an alkyl substituent as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkoxy group may be optionally substituted.

 Alkylamino refers to a substituent of the formula NHRor NRRwhere each Ris independently an alkyl substituent as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylamino group may be optionally substituted.

 Thioalkyl refers to a substituent of the formula SRwhere Ris an alkyl substituent as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a thioalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Aryl refers to a hydrocarbon ring system substituent comprising hydrogen 6 to 18 carbon atoms and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this disclosure the aryl substituent may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems. Aryl substituents include but are not limited to aryl substituents derived from aceanthrylene acenaphthylene acephenanthrylene anthracene azulene benzene chrysene fluoranthene fluorene as indacene s indacene indane indene naphthalene phenalene phenanthrene pleiadene pyrene and triphenylene. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term aryl or the prefix ar such as in aralkyl is meant to include aryl substituents that are optionally substituted.

 Aralkyl refers to a substituent of the formula R Rwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl substituents as defined above for example benzyl diphenylmethyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an aralkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Cycloalkyl or carbocyclic ring refers to a stable non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon substituent consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms which may include fused or bridged ring systems having from three to fifteen carbon atoms preferably having from three to ten carbon atoms and which is saturated or unsaturated and attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Monocyclic substituents include for example cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. Polycyclic substituents include for example adamantyl norbornyl decalinyl 7 7 dimethyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl and the like. Unless otherwise stated specifically in the specification a cycloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Cycloalkylalkyl refers to a substituent of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl substituent as defined above. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a cycloalkylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Fused refers to any ring structure described herein which is fused to an existing ring structure in the compounds of the disclosure. When the fused ring is a heterocyclyl ring or a heteroaryl ring any carbon atom on the existing ring structure which becomes part of the fused heterocyclyl ring or the fused heteroaryl ring may be replaced with a nitrogen atom.

 Haloalkyl refers to an alkyl substituent as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo substituents as defined above e.g. trifluoromethyl difluoromethyl trichloromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 1 2 difluoroethyl 3 bromo 2 fluoropropyl 1 2 dibromoethyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a haloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heterocyclyl or heterocyclic ring refers to a stable 3 to 18 membered non aromatic ring substituent which consists of two to twelve carbon atoms and from one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the heterocyclyl substituent may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heterocyclyl substituent may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized and the heterocyclyl substituent may be partially or fully saturated. Examples of such heterocyclyl substituents include but are not limited to dioxolanyl thienyl 1 3 dithianyl decahydroisoquinolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl octahydroindolyl octahydroisoindolyl 2 oxopiperazinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl oxazolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl quinuclidinyl thiazolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl trithianyl tetrahydropyranyl thiomorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl 1 oxo thiomorpholinyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.

 N heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclyl substituent as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heterocyclyl substituent to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclyl substituent. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a N heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heterocyclylalkyl refers to a substituent of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl substituent as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkyl substituent at the nitrogen atom. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heterocyclylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heteroaryl refers to a 5 to 14 membered ring system substituent comprising hydrogen atoms one to thirteen carbon atoms one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this disclosure the heteroaryl substituent may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heteroaryl substituent may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. Examples include but are not limited to azepinyl acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolyl benzindolyl benzodioxolyl benzofuranyl benzooxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzo b 1 4 dioxepinyl 1 4 benzodioxanyl benzonaphthofuranyl benzoxazolyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxinyl benzopyranyl benzopyranonyl benzofuranyl benzofuranonyl benzothienyl benzothiophenyl benzotriazolyl benzo 4 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl carbazolyl cinnolinyl dibenzofuranyl dibenzothiophenyl furanyl furanonyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl indazolyl indolyl indazolyl isoindolyl indolinyl isoindolinyl isoquinolyl indolizinyl isoxazolyl naphthyridinyl oxadiazolyl 2 oxoazepinyl oxazolyl oxiranyl 1 oxidopyridinyl 1 oxidopyrimidinyl 1 oxidopyrazinyl 1 oxidopyridazinyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrrolyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl phthalazinyl pteridinyl purinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl quinolinyl quinuclidinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl triazinyl and thiophenyl i.e. thienyl . Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted.

 N heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl substituent as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl substituent to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl substituent. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an N heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heteroarylalkyl refers to a substituent of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl substituent as defined above. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heteroarylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

The term substituted used herein means any of the above groups i.e. alkyl alkylene alkoxy alkylamino thioalkyl aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl wherein at least one hydrogen atom is replaced by a bond to a non hydrogen atoms such as but not limited to a halogen atom such as F Cl Br and I an oxygen atom in groups such as hydroxyl groups alkoxy groups and ester groups a sulfur atom in groups such as thiol groups thioalkyl groups sulfone groups sulfonyl groups and sulfoxide groups a nitrogen atom in groups such as azides amines amides alkylamines dialkylamines arylamines alkylarylamines diarylamines N oxides imides and enamines a silicon atom in groups such as trialkylsilyl groups dialkylarylsilyl groups alkyldiarylsilyl groups and triarylsilyl groups and other heteroatoms in various other groups. Substituted also means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by a higher order bond e.g. a double or triple bond to a heteroatom such as oxygen in oxo carbonyl carboxyl and ester groups and nitrogen in groups such as imines oximes hydrazones and nitriles. For example substituted includes any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O O NRC NR NRR NRSOR OC O NRR OR SR SOR SOR OSOR SOOR NSOR and SONRR. Substituted also means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with C O R C O OR C O NRR CHSOR CHSONRR. In the foregoing Rand Rare the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl alkoxy alkylamino thioalkyl aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl. Substituted further means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by a bond to an amino cyano hydroxyl imino nitro oxo thioxo halo alkyl alkoxy alkylamino thioalkyl aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl group. In addition each of the foregoing substituents may also be optionally substituted with one or more of the above substituents.

The term protecting group as used herein refers to a labile chemical moiety which is known in the art to protect reactive groups including without limitation hydroxyl and amino groups against undesired reactions during synthetic procedures. Hydroxyl and amino groups which protected with a protecting group are referred to herein as protected hydroxyl groups and protected amino groups respectively. Protecting groups are typically used selectively and or orthogonally to protect sites during reactions at other reactive sites and can then be removed to leave the unprotected group as is or available for further reactions. Protecting groups as known in the art are described generally in Greene and Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3rd edition John Wiley Sons New York 1999 . Groups can be selectively incorporated into compounds of the present disclosure as precursors. For example an amino group can be placed into a compound of the disclosure as an azido group that can be chemically converted to the amino group at a desired point in the synthesis. Generally groups are protected or present as a precursor that will be inert to reactions that modify other areas of the parent molecule for conversion into their final groups at an appropriate time. Further representative protecting or precursor groups are discussed in Agrawal et al. Protocols for Oligonucleotide Conjugates Eds Humana Press New Jersey 1994 Vol. 26 pp. 1 72. Examples of hydroxyl protecting groups include but are not limited to t butyl t butoxymethyl methoxymethyl tetrahydropyranyl 1 ethoxyethyl 1 2 chloroethoxy ethyl 2 trimethylsilylethyl p chlorophenyl 2 4 dinitrophenyl benzyl 2 6 dichlorobenzyl diphenylmethyl p nitrobenzyl triphenylmethyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl t butyldimethylsilyl t butyldiphenylsilyl TBDPS triphenylsilyl benzoylformate acetate chloroacetate trichloroacetate tri fluoroacetate pivaloate benzoate p phenylbenzoate 9 fluorenylmethyl carbonate mesylate and tosylate. Examples of amino protecting groups include but are not limited to carbamate protecting groups such as 2 trimethylsilylethoxycarbonyl Teoc 1 methyl 1 4 biphenylyl ethoxycarbonyl Bpoc t butoxycarbonyl BOC allyloxycarbonyl Alloc 9 fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl Fmoc and benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz amide protecting groups such as formyl acetyl trihaloacetyl benzoyl and nitrophenylacetyl sulfonamide protecting groups such as 2 nitrobenzenesulfonyl and imine and cyclic imide protecting groups such as phthalimido and dithiasuccinoyl.

 Prodrug is meant to indicate a compound that may be converted under physiological conditions or by solvolysis to a biologically active compound of the disclosure. Thus the term prodrug refers to a metabolic precursor of a compound of the disclosure that is pharmaceutically acceptable. A prodrug may be inactive when administered to a subject in need thereof but is converted in vivo to an active compound of the disclosure. In one embodiment a prodrug is rapidly transformed in vivo to yield the parent compound of the disclosure for example by hydrolysis in blood. In one embodiment a prodrug may be stable in plasma or blood. In one embodiment a prodrug may be targeted form of a compound of the invention. The prodrug compound often offers advantages of solubility tissue compatibility or delayed release in a mammalian organism see Bundgard H. Design of Prodrugs 1985 pp. 7 9 21 24 Elsevier Amsterdam . A discussion of prodrugs is provided in Higuchi T. et al. A.C.S. Symposium Series Vol. 14 and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Ed. Edward B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987.

The term prodrug is meant to include any covalently bonded carriers which release the active compound of the disclosure in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a mammalian subject. Conjugates including ADCs as disclosed herein are such prodrugs of compositions having structure I . Prodrugs of a compound of the disclosure may be prepared by modifying functional groups present in the compound of the disclosure in such a way that the modifications are cleaved either in routine manipulation or in vivo to the parent compound of the disclosure. Prodrugs include compounds of the disclosure wherein a hydroxy amino or mercapto group is bonded to any group that when the prodrug of the compound of the disclosure is administered to a mammalian subject cleaves to form a free hydroxy free amino or free mercapto group respectively. Examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to acetate formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol or amide derivatives of amine functional groups in the compounds of the disclosure and the like.

The present disclosure also meant to encompass all pharmaceutically acceptable compounds of structure I being isotopically labelled by having one or more atoms replaced by an atom having a different atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into the disclosed compounds include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I respectively. These radiolabelled compounds could be useful to help determine or measure the effectiveness of the compounds by characterizing for example the site or mode of action or binding affinity to pharmacologically important site of action. Certain isotopically labelled compounds of structure I for example those incorporating a radioactive isotope are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution studies. The radioactive isotopes tritium i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C are particularly useful for this purpose in view of their ease of incorporation and ready means of detection.

Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances.

Substitution with positron emitting isotopes such as C F O and N can be useful in Positron Emission Topography PET studies for examining substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of structure I can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Preparations and Examples as set out below using an appropriate isotopically labeled reagent in place of the non labeled reagent previously employed.

The present disclosure is also meant to encompass the in vivo metabolic products of the disclosed compounds. Such products may result from for example the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation esterification and the like of the administered compound primarily due to enzymatic processes. Accordingly the present disclosure includes compounds produced by a process comprising administering a compound of this disclosure to a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof. Such products are typically identified by administering a radiolabelled compound of the disclosure in a detectable dose to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to human allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples.

 Stable compound and stable structure are meant to indicate a compound that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture and formulation into an efficacious therapeutic agent.

The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers intact monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies formed from at least two intact antibodies and antibody fragments so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity. The term antibody refers to a full length immunoglobulin molecule or a functionally active portion of a full length immunoglobulin molecule i.e. a molecule that contains an antigen binding site that immunospecifically binds an antigen of a target of interest or part thereof. The immunoglobulin disclosed herein can be of any type e.g. IgG IgE IgM IgD and IgA class e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 and IgA2 or subclass of immunoglobulin molecule. The immunoglobulins can be derived from any species. In one aspect the immunoglobulin is of human murine or rabbit origin. In another aspect the antibodies are polyclonal monoclonal multi specific e.g. bispecific human humanized or chimeric antibodies linear antibodies single chain antibodies diabodies maxibodies minibodies Fv Fab fragments F ab fragments F ab fragments fragments produced by a Fab expression library anti idiotypic anti Id antibodies CDR s and epitope binding fragments of any of the above which immunospecifically bind to a target antigen.

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies include chimeric antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and or light chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass while the remainder of the chain s is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments of such antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Morrison et al. 1984 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81 6851 6855 . Monoclonal antibodies also include humanized antibodies may contain a completely human constant region and a CDRs from a nonhuman source.

An intact antibody is one which comprises an antigen binding variable region as well as a light chain constant domain CL and heavy chain constant domains C Cand C. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains e.g. human native sequence constant domains or amino acid sequence variant thereof.

 Antibody fragments comprise a portion of an intact antibody preferably comprising the antigen binding or variable region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments diabodies linear antibodies single chain antibody molecules maxibodies minibodies and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragment s .

An isolated antibody is one which has been identified and separated and or recovered from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural environment are materials which would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody and may include enzymes hormones and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. In some embodiments the antibody will be purified 1 to greater than 95 by weight of antibody as determined by the Lowry method and most preferably more than 99 by weight 2 to a degree sufficient to obtain at least 15 residues of N terminal or internal amino acid sequence by use of a spinning cup sequenator or 3 to homogeneity by SDS PAGE under reducing or nonreducing conditions using Coomassie blue or preferably silver stain. Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant cells since at least one component of the antibody s natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily however isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step.

An antibody which binds an antigen of interest is one capable of binding that antigen with sufficient affinity such that the antibody is useful in targeting a cell expressing the antigen.

A native sequence polypeptide is one which has the same amino acid sequence as a polypeptide derived from nature. Such native sequence polypeptides can be isolated from nature or can be produced by recombinant or synthetic means. Thus a native sequence polypeptide can have the amino acid sequence of naturally occurring human polypeptide murine polypeptide or polypeptide from any other mammalian species.

The term intracellular metabolite refers to a compound resulting from a metabolic process or reaction inside a cell on a composition of the invention e.g. an antibody drug conjugate ADC . The metabolic process or reaction may be an enzymatic process such as proteolytic cleavage of a peptide linker of the subject composition or hydrolysis of a functional group such as a hydrazone ester or amide within the subject composition. In the context of conjugates including ADCs intracellular metabolites include but are not limited to antibodies and free drug which have been separated intracellularly i.e. after entry diffusion uptake or transport into a cell e.g. by enzymatic cleavage of an ADC by an intracellular enzyme .

In the context of conjugates including ADCs the terms intracellularly cleaved and intracellular cleavage refer to metabolic processes or reactions inside a cell on a composition of the invention whereby the covalent attachment e.g. the linker L between the drug moiety D and the targeting moiety T e.g. an antibody is broken resulting in the free drug dissociated from T inside the cell. The cleaved moieties of the subject compositions are thus intracellular metabolites e.g. T T L fragment D L fragment D . Accordingly in one embodiment the invention provides compositions that are cleavage products of a composition having structure II which cleavage products include compositions comprising structure I .

 Mammal includes humans and both domestic animals such as laboratory animals and household pets e.g. cats dogs swine cattle sheep goats horses rabbits and non domestic animals such as wildlife and the like.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event of circumstances may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example optionally substituted aryl means that the aryl substituent may or may not be substituted and that the description includes both substituted aryl substituents and aryl substituents having no substitution.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient includes without limitation any adjuvant carrier excipient glidant sweetening agent diluent preservative dye colorant flavor enhancer surfactant wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent stabilizer isotonic agent solvent or emulsifier which has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration or other similar regulatory agency of another jurisdiction as being acceptable for use in humans or domestic animals.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable and which are formed with inorganic acids such as but are not limited to hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids such as but not limited to acetic acid 2 2 dichloroacetic acid adipic acid alginic acid ascorbic acid aspartic acid benzenesulfonic acid benzoic acid 4 acetamidobenzoic acid camphoric acid camphor 10 sulfonic acid capric acid caproic acid caprylic acid carbonic acid cinnamic acid citric acid cyclamic acid dodecylsulfuric acid ethane 1 2 disulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid formic acid fumaric acid galactaric acid gentisic acid glucoheptonic acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid glutamic acid glutaric acid 2 oxo glutaric acid glycerophosphoric acid glycolic acid hippuric acid isobutyric acid lactic acid lactobionic acid lauric acid maleic acid malic acid malonic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid mucic acid naphthalene 1 5 disulfonic acid naphthalene 2 sulfonic acid 1 hydroxy 2 naphthoic acid nicotinic acid oleic acid orotic acid oxalic acid palmitic acid pamoic acid propionic acid pyroglutamic acid pyruvic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid sebacic acid stearic acid succinic acid tartaric acid thiocyanic acid p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic acid undecylenic acid and the like.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free acids which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. These salts are prepared from addition of an inorganic base or an organic base to the free acid. Salts derived from inorganic bases include but are not limited to the sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum salts and the like. Preferred inorganic salts are the ammonium sodium potassium calcium and magnesium salts. Salts derived from organic bases include but are not limited to salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as ammonia isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine diethanolamine ethanolamine deanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol 2 diethylaminoethanol dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine benethamine benzathine ethylenediamine glucosamine methylglucamine theobromine triethanolamine tromethamine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine polyamine resins and the like. Particularly preferred organic bases are isopropylamine diethylamine ethanolamine trimethylamine dicyclohexylamine choline and caffeine.

Often crystallizations produce a solvate of the compound of the disclosure. As used herein the term solvate refers to an aggregate that comprises one or more molecules of a compound of the disclosure with one or more molecules of solvent. The solvent may be water in which case the solvate may be a hydrate. Alternatively the solvent may be an organic solvent. Thus the compounds of the present disclosure may exist as a hydrate including a monohydrate dihydrate hemihydrate sesquihydrate trihydrate tetrahydrate and the like as well as the corresponding solvated forms. The compound of the disclosure may be true solvates while in other cases the compound of the disclosure may merely retain adventitious water or be a mixture of water plus some adventitious solvent.

A pharmaceutical composition refers to a formulation of a compound of the disclosure and a medium generally accepted in the art for the delivery of the biologically active compound to mammals e.g. humans. Such a medium includes all pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents or excipients therefor.

Non limiting examples of disorders to be treated herein include benign and malignant tumors leukemia and lymphoid malignancies in particular breast ovarian stomach endometrial salivary gland lung kidney colon thyroid pancreatic prostate or bladder cancer neuronal glial astrocytal hypothalamic and other glandular macrophagal epithelial stromal and blastocoelic disorders.

 Effective amount or therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of a compound of the disclosure which when administered to a mammal preferably a human is sufficient to effect treatment as defined below of cancer or tumour cells in the mammal preferably a human. The amount of a compound of the disclosure which constitutes a therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the condition and its severity the manner of administration and the age of the mammal to be treated but can be determined routinely by one of ordinary skill in the art having regard to his own knowledge and to this disclosure.

 Treating or treatment as used herein covers the treatment of the disease or condition of interest in a mammal preferably a human having the disease or condition of interest and includes 

 i preventing the disease or condition from occurring in a mammal in particular when such mammal is predisposed to the condition but has not yet been diagnosed as having it 

 iv relieving the symptoms resulting from the disease or condition i.e. relieving pain without addressing the underlying disease or condition.

The therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. Compounds of the present invention are preferably cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

An effective amount of drug when referred to in respect of the killing of cancer cells refers to an amount of drug sufficient to produce the killing effect.

Solid tumors contemplated for treatment using the presently disclosed compounds include but are not limited to sarcoma fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma chordoma angiosarcoma endotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphangioendotheliosarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon cancer colorectal cancer kidney cancer pancreatic cancer bone cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer esophageal cancer stomach cancer e.g. gastrointestinal cancer oral cancer nasal cancer throat cancer squamous cell carcinoma e.g. of the lung basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma e.g. of the lung sweat gland carcinoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas cystadenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma seminoma embryonal carcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer uterine cancer testicular cancer small cell lung carcinoma bladder carcinoma lung cancer non small cell lung cancer epithelial carcinoma glioma glioblastoma multiforme astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyngioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma meningioma skin cancer melanoma neuroblastoma and retinoblastoma. Blood borne cancers contemplated for treatment using the presently disclosed compounds include but are not limited to acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL acute lymphoblastic B cell leukemia acute lymphoblastic T cell leukemia acute myeloblastic leukemia AML acute promyelocytic leukemia APL acute monoblastic leukemia acute erythroleukemic leukemia acute megakaryoblastic leukemia acute myelomonocytic leukemia acute nonlymphocyctic leukemia acute undifferentiated leukemia chronic myelocytic leukemia CML chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL hairy cell leukemia and multiple myeloma. Acute and chronic leukemias contemplated for treatment using the presently disclosed compounds include but are not limited to lymphoblastic myelogenous lymphocytic and myelocytic leukemias. Lymphomas contemplated for treatment using the presently disclosed compounds include but are not limited to Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s lymphoma multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia heavy chain disease and polycythemia vera. Other cancers contemplated for treatment using the presently disclosed compounds include but are not limited to peritoneal cancer hepatocellular cancer hepatoma salivary cancer vulval cancer thyroid penile cancer anal cancer head and neck cancer renal cell carcinoma acute anaplastic large cell carcinoma and cutaneous anaplastic large cell carcinoma.

Cancers including but not limited to a tumor metastasis or other disease or disorder characterized by uncontrolled or undesired cell growth can be treated or prevented by administration of the presently disclosed compounds.

In other embodiments methods for treating or preventing cancer are provided including administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a compound disclosed herein in combination with a an additional method of treatment. In one embodiment the additional method of treatment includes treatment with a chemotherapeutic agent. In one embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that with which treatment of the cancer has not been found to be refractory. In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that with which the treatment of cancer has been found to be refractory. The compound of the invention may be administered before after or at the same time as the chemotherapeutic agent.

In one embodiment the additional method of treatment is radiation therapy. The compound of the invention may be administered before after or at the same time as the radiation.

Compounds of the invention may also be administered to a patient that has undergone or will undergo surgery as treatment for the cancer.

In a specific embodiment the compound of the invention is administered concurrently with the chemotherapeutic agent or with radiation therapy. In another specific embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation therapy is administered prior or subsequent to administration of compound of the invention in one aspect at least an hour five hours 12 hours a day a week a month in further aspects several months e.g. up to three months prior or subsequent to administration of a compound of the invention.

A chemotherapeutic agent can be administered over a series of sessions. Any one or a combination of the chemotherapeutic agents listed herein or otherwise known in the art can be administered. With respect to radiation any radiation therapy protocol can be used depending upon the type of cancer to be treated. For example but not by way of limitation x ray radiation can be administered in particular high energy megavoltage radiation of greater that 1 MeV energy can be used for deep tumors and electron beam and orthovoltage x ray radiation can be used for skin cancers. Gamma ray emitting radioisotopes such as radioactive isotopes of radium cobalt and other elements can also be administered.

Additionally methods of treatment of cancer with a compound of the invention are provided as an alternative to chemotherapy or radiation therapy where the chemotherapy or the radiation therapy has proven or can prove too toxic e.g. results in unacceptable or unbearable side effects for the subject being treated. Additionally methods of treatment of cancer with a compound of the invention are provided as an alternative to surgery where the surgery has proven or can prove unacceptable or unbearable for the subject being treated.

The compound of the invention can also be used in an in vitro or ex vivo fashion such as for the treatment of certain cancers including but not limited to leukemias and lymphomas such treatment involving autologous stem cell transplants. This can involve a multi step process in which the animal s autologous hematopoietic stem cells are harvested and purged of all cancer cells the animal s remaining bone marrow cell population is then eradicated via the administration of a high dose of a compound of the invention with or without accompanying high dose radiation therapy and the stem cell graft is infused back into the animal. Supportive care is then provided while bone marrow function is restored and the animal recovers.

Methods for treating cancer further include administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a compound of the invention and another therapeutic agent that is an anti cancer agent. Suitable anticancer agents include but are not limited to methotrexate taxol L asparaginase mercaptopurine thioguanine hydroxyurea cytarabine cyclophosphamide Ifosfamide nitrosoureas cisplatin carboplatin mitomycin dacarbazine procarbazine topotecan nitrogen mustards cytoxan etoposide 5 fluorouracil BCNU irinotecan camptothecins bleomycin doxorubicin idarubicin daunorubicin actinomycin D dactinomycin plicamycin mitoxantrone asparaginase vinblastine vincristine vindesine vinorelbine paclitaxel and docetaxel.

Other examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan treosulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine TLK 286 TELCYTA acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol dronabinol MARINOL beta lapachone lapachol colchicines betulinic acid a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan HYCAMTIN CPT 11 irinotecan CAMPTOSAR acetylcamptothecin scopolectin and 9 aminocamptothecin bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues podophyllotoxin podophyllinic acid teniposide cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide and uracil mustard triazines such as decarbazine nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine epipodophyllins such as etoposide teniposide topotecan 9 aminocamptothecin camptothecin orcrisnatol bisphosphonates such as clodronate antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma11 and calicheamicin omega11 see e.g. Agnew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 33 183 186 1994 and anthracyclines such as annamycin AD 32 alcarubicin daunorubicin dexrazoxane DX 52 1 epirubicin GPX 100 idarubicin KRN5500 menogaril dynemicin including dynemicin A an esperamicin neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins e.g. A2 and B2 cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin including morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin liposomal doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin esorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin and zorubicin photodynamic therapies such as vertoporfin BPD MA phthalocyanine photosensitizer Pc4 and demethoxy hypocrellin A 2BA 2 DMHA folic acid analogues such as denopterin pteropterin and trimetrexate dpurine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine and thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine cytosine arabinoside dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine and floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane and testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane and trilostane folic acid replenisher such as folinic acid leucovorin aceglatone anti folate anti neoplastic agents such as ALIMTA LY231514 pemetrexed dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors such as methotrexate and trimetrexate anti metabolites such as 5 fluorouracil 5 FU and its prodrugs such as UFT S 1 and capecitabine floxuridine doxifluridine and ratitrexed and thymidylate synthase inhibitors and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltranferase inhibitors such as raltitrexed TOMUDEX TDX inhibitors of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase such as eniluracil aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine ELDISINE FILDESIN dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids and taxanes e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranbucil gemcitabine GEMZAR 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine platinum platinum analogs or platinum based analogs such as cisplatin oxaliplatin and carboplatin vinblastine VELBAN etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine ONCOVIN vinca alkaloid vinorelbine NAVELBINE velcade revlimid thalidomide IMiD3 lovastatin verapamil thapsigargin 1 methyl 4 phenylpyridinium cell cycle inhibitors such as staurosporine novantrone edatrexate daunomycin mtoxantrone aminopterin xeloda ibandronate topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO vitamin D3 analogs such as EB 1089 CB 1093 and KH 1060 retinoids such as retinoic acid pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP an abbreviation for a combined therapy of cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisolone and FOLFOX an abbreviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin ELOXATIN combined with 5 FU and leucovorin.

Anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen raloxifene megastrol droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifene aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole and ARIMIDEX anastrozole and anti androgens such as flutamide bicalutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those that inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in abherant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf H Ras and epidermal growth factor receptor EGF R vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN vaccine LEUVECTIN vaccine and VAXID vaccine PROLEUKIN rIL 2 LURTOTECAN topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ABARELIX rmRH and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

The compounds of the disclosure or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts may contain one or more asymmetric centers and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S or as D or L for amino acids. The present disclosure is meant to include all such possible isomers as well as their racemic and optically pure forms. Optically active and R and S or D and L isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques for example chromatography and fractional crystallization. Conventional techniques for the preparation isolation of individual enantiomers include chiral synthesis from a suitable optically pure precursor or resolution of the racemate or the racemate of a salt or derivative using for example chiral high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC . When the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centres of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers. Likewise all tautomeric forms are also intended to be included.

A stereoisomer refers to a compound made up of the same atoms bonded by the same bonds but having different three dimensional structures which are not interchangeable. The present disclosure contemplates various stereoisomers and mixtures thereof and includes enantiomers which refers to two stereoisomers whose molecules are nonsuperimposable mirror images of one another.

A tautomer refers to a proton shift from one atom of a molecule to another atom of the same molecule. The present disclosure includes tautomers of any said compounds.

As noted above in one embodiment of the present disclosure compositions having cytotoxic activity and or anti mitotic activity are provided the compositions having structure I below. In a further embodiment the subject compositions exhibit cytotoxic activity against cancer cells.

As noted above in one embodiment of the present disclosure compounds having the following structure I are provided 

Ris selected from the group consisting of optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkylamino optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heterocyclyl and optionally substituted heteroaryl 

Ris selected from the group consisting of optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkylamino optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heterocyclyl and optionally substituted heteroaryl 

In a further embodiment each optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkylamino optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heterocyclyl and optionally substituted heteroaryl is independently optionally substituted with O S OH OR OCR SH SR SOCR NH N NHR N R NHCOR NRCOR I Br Cl F CN COH COR CHO COR CONH CONHR CON R COSH COSR NO SOH SORor SOR wherein each Ris independently alkyl optionally substituted with halogen OH or SH.

In another further embodiment each optionally substituted aryl and optionally substituted heteroaryl is independently selected from the group consisting of optionally substituted phenyl optionally substituted naphthyl optionally substituted anthracyl optionally substituted phenanthryl optionally substituted furyl optionally substituted pyrrolyl optionally substituted thiophenyl optionally substituted benzofuryl optionally substituted benzothiophenyl optionally substituted quinolinyl optionally substituted isoquinolinyl optionally substituted imidazolyl optionally substituted thiazolyl optionally substituted oxazolyl and optionally substituted pyridinyl.

It is understood that any embodiment of the compounds of structure I as set forth above and any specific substituent set forth herein for a R R R R R Rand Rgroup in the compounds of structure I as set forth above may be independently combined with other embodiments and or substituents of compounds of structure I to form embodiments of the present disclosure not specifically set forth above. In addition in the event that a list of substitutents is listed for any particular R R R R R Rand Rin a particular embodiment and or claim it is understood that each individual substituent may be deleted from the particular embodiment and or claim and that the remaining list of substituents will be considered to be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Compounds having structure I may be used to form conjugates for example antibody drug conjugates ADCs . Accordingly in one embodiment of the present disclosure conjugate compositions having the following structure are provided T L D II wherein T is a targeting moiety L is an optional linker and D is a compound having structure I . In one embodiment T is an antibody. Accordingly in one embodiment antibody drug conjugates ADCs comprising compounds D having structure I are provided.

As will be appreciated by the artisan of reasonable skill a wide variety of means are available to covalently link T L D . Any known method may be used to link the conjugate components. Any known linker technology may be used to link T to D . Further T L and D may be modified in any suitable manner as recognized by the artisan of reasonable skill in order to facilitate conjugate formation.

The Targeting moiety T of the subject compositions includes within its scope any unit of a T that binds or reactively associates or complexes with a receptor antigen or other receptive moiety associated with a given target cell population. A T is a molecule that binds to complexes with or reacts with a moiety of a cell population sought to be targeted. In one aspect the T acts to deliver the Drug D to the particular target cell population with which the T reacts. Such T s include but are not limited to large molecular weight proteins such as for example full length antibodies antibody fragments smaller molecular weight proteins polypeptide or peptides lectins glycoproteins non peptides vitamins nutrient transport molecules such as but not limited to transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance.

A T can form a bond to a Linker unit L or a Drug D . A T can form a bond to a L unit via a heteroatom of the T . Heteroatoms that may be present on a T include sulfur in one embodiment from a sulfhydryl group of a T oxygen in one embodiment from a carbonyl carboxyl or hydroxyl group of a T and nitrogen in one embodiment from a primary or secondary amino group of a T . These heteroatoms can be present on the T in the T s natural state for example a naturally occurring antibody or can be introduced into the T via chemical modification.

In one embodiment a T has a sulfhydryl group and the T bonds to the L via the sulfhydryl group s sulfur atom. In another embodiment the T has one or more lysine residues that can be chemically modified to introduce one or more sulfhydryl groups. The T bonds to the L unit via the sulfhydryl group. Reagents that can be used to modify lysines include but are not limited to N succinimidyl S acetylthioacetate SATA and 2 Iminothiolane hydrochloride Traut s Reagent .

In another embodiment the L can have one or more carbohydrate groups that can be chemically modified to have one or more sulfhydryl groups. The T bonds to the L via the sulfhydryl group s sulfur atom. In yet another embodiment the T can have one or more carbohydrate groups that can be oxidized to provide an aldehyde CHO group see e.g. Laguzza et al. 1989 J. Med. Chem. 32 3 548 55 . The corresponding aldehyde can form a bond with a reactive site on a portion of a L . Reactive sites that can react with a carbonyl group on a T include but are not limited to hydrazine and hydroxylamine. Other protocols for the modification of proteins for the attachment or association of D are described in Coligan et al. Current Protocols in Protein Science vol. 2 John Wiley Sons 2002 incorporated herein by reference.

The T can include for example a protein polypeptide or peptide include but are not limited to transferrin epidermal growth factors EGF bombesin gastrin gastrin releasing peptide platelet derived growth factor IL 2 IL 6 transforming growth factor TGF such as TGF or TGF vaccinia growth factor VGF insulin and insulin like growth factors I and II lectins and apoprotein from low density lipoprotein.

The T can also include an antibody such as polyclonal antibodies or monoclonal antibodies. The antibody can be directed to a particular antigenic determinant including for example a cancer cell antigen a viral antigen a microbial antigen a protein a peptide a carbohydrate a chemical nucleic acid or fragments thereof. Methods of producing polyclonal antibodies are known in the art. A monoclonal antibody mAb to an antigen of interest can be prepared by using any technique known in the art. These include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally described by Kohler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 the human B cell hybridoma technique Kozbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al. 1985 Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 . The Selected Lymphocyte Antibody Method SLAM Babcook J. S. et al. A novel strategy for generating monoclonal antibodies from single isolated lymphocytes producing antibodies of defined specificities. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1996. 93 15 p. 7843 8. and McLean G R Olsen O A Watt I N Rathanaswami P Leslie K B Babcook J S Schrader J W. Recognition of human cytomegalovirus by human primary immunoglobulins identifies an innate foundation to an adaptive immune response. J Immunol. 2005 Apr. 15 174 8 4768 78. Such antibodies may be of any immunoglobulin class including IgG IgM IgE IgA and IgD and any subclass thereof. The hybridoma producing the mAbs of use in this invention may be cultivated in vitro or in vivo.

The monoclonal antibody can be for example a human monoclonal antibody a humanized monoclonal antibody an antibody fragment or a chimeric antibody e.g. a human mouse antibody . Human monoclonal antibodies may be made by any of numerous techniques known in the art e.g. Teng et al. 1983 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80 7308 7312 Kozbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 79 and Olsson et al. 1982 Meth. Enzymol. 92 3 16 . See also Huse et al. 1989 Science 246 1275 1281 and McLean et al. J Immunol. 2005 Apr. 15 174 8 4768 78.

The antibody can also be a bispecific antibody. Methods for making bispecific antibodies are known in the art. Traditional production of full length bispecific antibodies is based on the coexpression of two immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pairs where the two chains have different specificities see e.g. Milstein et al. 1983 Nature 305 537 539 International Publication No. WO 93 08829 Traunecker et al. 1991 EMBO J. 10 3655 3659.

According to a different approach antibody variable domains with the desired binding specificities antibody antigen combining sites are fused to immunoglobulin constant domain sequences. The fusion preferably is with an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domain comprising at least part of the hinge C and Cregions. It is preferred to have the first heavy chain constant region C containing the site necessary for light chain binding present in at least one of the fusions. Nucleic acids with sequences encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain fusions and if desired the immunoglobulin light chain are inserted into separate expression vectors and are co transfected into a suitable host organism. This provides for flexibility in adjusting the mutual proportions of the three polypeptide fragments in embodiments when unequal ratios of the three polypeptide chains used in the construction provide the optimum yields. It is however possible to insert the coding sequences for two or all three polypeptide chains in one expression vector when the expression of at least two polypeptide chains in equal ratios results in high yields or when the ratios are of no particular significance.

For example the bispecific antibodies can have a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain with a first binding specificity in one arm and a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pair providing a second binding specificity in the other arm. This asymmetric structure facilitates the separation of the desired bispecific compound from unwanted immunoglobulin chain combinations as the presence of an immunoglobulin light chain in only one half of the bispecific molecule provides for a facile way of separation International Publication No. WO 94 04690 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

For further details for generating bispecific antibodies see for example Suresh et al. 1986 Methods in Enzymology 121 210 Rodrigues et al. 1993 J. Immunology 151 6954 6961 Carter et al. 1992 Bio Technology 10 163 167 Carter et al. 1995 J. Hematotherapy 4 463 470 Merchant et al. 1998 Nature Biotechnology 16 677 681. Using such techniques bispecific antibodies can be prepared for use in the treatment or prevention of disease as defined herein.

Bifunctional antibodies are also described in European Patent Publication No. EPA 0 105 360. As disclosed in this reference hybrid or bifunctional antibodies can be derived either biologically i.e. by cell fusion techniques or chemically especially with cross linking agents or disulfide bridge forming reagents and may comprise whole antibodies or fragments thereof. Methods for obtaining such hybrid antibodies are disclosed for example in International Publication WO 83 03679 and European Patent Publication No. EPA 0 217 577 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The antibody also can be a functionally active fragment derivative or analog of an antibody that immunospecifically binds to a target antigen e.g. a cancer antigen a viral antigen a microbial antigen or other antibodies bound to cells or matrix . In this regard functionally active means that the fragment derivative or analog is able to recognize the same antigen that the antibody from which the fragment derivative or analog is derived recognized. Specifically in an exemplary embodiment the antigenicity of the idiotype of the immunoglobulin molecule can be enhanced by deletion of framework and CDR sequences that are C terminal to the CDR sequence that specifically recognizes the antigen. To determine which CDR sequences bind the antigen synthetic peptides containing the CDR sequences can be used in binding assays with the antigen by any binding assay method known in the art e.g. the BIA core assay see e.g. Kabat et al. 1991 Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest Fifth Edition National Institute of Health Bethesda Md. Kabat et al. 1980 J. Immunology 125 3 961 969 .

Other useful antibodies include fragments of antibodies such as but not limited to F ab fragments Fab fragments Fab Fv fragments and heavy chain and light chain dimers of antibodies or any minimal fragment thereof such as Fvs or single chain antibodies SCAs e.g. as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 Bird 1988 Science 242 423 42 Huston et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 5879 5883 and Ward et al. 1989 Nature 334 544 54 .

Recombinant antibodies such as chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies comprising both human and non human portions which can be made using standard recombinant DNA techniques also can be used. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 397. Humanized antibodies are antibody molecules from non human species having one or more complementarity determining regions CDRs from the non human species and a framework region from a human immunoglobulin molecule. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089. Chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies can be produced by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art for example using methods described in International Publication No. WO 87 02671 European Patent Publication No. 0 184 187 European Patent Publication No. 0 171 496 European Patent Publication No. 0 173 494 International Publication No. WO 86 01533 U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 European Patent Publication No. 012 023 Berter et al. 1988 Science 240 1041 1043 Liu et al. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 3439 3443 Liu et al. 1987 J. Immunol. 139 3521 3526 Sun et al. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 214 218 Nishimura et al. 1987 Cancer. Res. 47 999 1005 Wood et al. 1985 Nature 314 446 449 Shaw et al. 1988 J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 80 1553 1559 Morrison 1985 Science 229 1202 1207 Oi et al. 1986 BioTechniques 4 214 U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 Jones et al. 1986 Nature 321 552 525 Verhoeyan et al. 1988 Science 239 1534 and Beidler et al. 1988 J. Immunol. 141 4053 4060.

Completely human antibodies can be used. Human antibodies can be prepared for example using transgenic mice that are incapable of expressing endogenous immunoglobulin heavy and light chains genes but which can express human heavy and light chain genes. The transgenic mice are immunized in the normal fashion with a selected antigen e.g. all or a portion of a polypeptide of the invention. Monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen can be obtained using conventional hybridoma technology. The human immunoglobulin transgenes harbored by the transgenic mice rearrange during B cell differentiation and subsequently undergo class switching and somatic mutation. Thus using such a technique it is possible to produce therapeutically useful IgG IgA IgM and IgE antibodies. For an overview of this technology for producing human antibodies see Lonberg and Huszar 1995 Int. Rev. Immunol. 13 65 93 . For a detailed discussion of this technology for producing human antibodies and human monoclonal antibodies and protocols for producing such antibodies. see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 625 126 5 633 425 5 569 825 5 661 016 and 5 545 806.

Human antibodies that recognize a selected epitope also can be generated using a technique referred to as guided selection. In this approach a selected non human monoclonal antibody e.g. a mouse antibody is used to guide the selection of a completely human antibody recognizing the same epitope. See e.g. Jespers et al. 1994 Biotechnology 12 899 903. Human antibodies can also be produced using various techniques known in the art including phage display libraries see e.g. Hoogenboom and Winter 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 227 381 Marks et al. 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 222 581 Quan and Carter 2002 The rise of monoclonal antibodies as therapeutics in Anti IgE and Allergic Disease Jardieu P. M. and Fick Jr. R. B eds. Marcel Dekker New York N.Y. Chapter 20 pp. 427 469 .

In other embodiments the antibody is a fusion protein of an antibody or a functionally active fragment thereof. For example an antibody can be fused via a covalent bond e.g. a peptide bond at either the N terminus or the C terminus to an amino acid sequence of another protein or portion thereof such as at least a 10 20 or 50 amino acid portion of the protein that is not the antibody.

Antibodies also include analogs and derivatives that are either modified i.e. by the covalent attachment of any type of molecule as long as such covalent attachment permits the antibody to retain its antigen binding immunospecificity. For example but not by way of limitation the derivatives and analogs of the antibodies include those that have been further modified e.g. by glycosylation acetylation pegylation phosphorylation amidation derivatization by known protecting blocking groups proteolytic cleavage linkage to a cellular antibody unit or other protein etc. Any of numerous chemical modifications can be carried out by known techniques including but not limited to specific chemical cleavage acetylation formylation metabolic synthesis in the presence of tunicamycin etc. Additionally the analog or derivative can contain one or more unnatural amino acids.

The antibodies can have modifications e.g. substitutions deletions or additions in amino acid residues that interact with Fc receptors. In particular antibodies include antibodies having modifications in amino acid residues identified as involved in the interaction between the anti Fc domain and the FcRn receptor see e.g. International Publication No. WO 97 34631 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Antibodies immunospecific for a target antigen can be obtained commercially or other source or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as e.g. chemical synthesis or recombinant expression techniques. The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained e.g. from the GenBank database or a database like it the literature publications or by routine cloning and sequencing.

Examples of antibodies available for the treatment of cancer include but are not limited to humanized anti HER2 monoclonal antibody HERCEPTIN trastuzumab Genentech RITUXAN rituximab Genentech which is a chimeric anti CD20 monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with non Hodgkin s lymphoma OvaRex AltaRex Corporation MA which is a murine antibody for the treatment of ovarian cancer Panorex Glaxo Wellcome NC which is a murine IgG2a antibody for the treatment of colorectal cancer Cetuximab Erbitux Imclone Systems Inc. NY which is an anti EGFR IgG chimeric antibody for the treatment of epidermal growth factor positive cancers such as head and neck cancer Vitaxin MedImmune Inc. MD which is a humanized antibody for the treatment of sarcoma Campath I H Leukosite Mass. which is a humanized IgG1 antibody for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Smart MI95 Protein Design Labs Inc. CA which is a humanized anti CD33 IgG antibody for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia AML LymphoCide Immunomedics Inc. NJ which is a humanized anti CD22 IgG antibody for the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphoma Smart ID10 Protein Design Labs Inc. CA which is a humanized anti HLA DR antibody for the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphoma Oncolym Techniclone Inc. CA which is a radiolabeled murine anti HLA Dr10 antibody for the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphoma Allomune BioTransplant CA which is a humanized anti CD2 mAb for the treatment of Hodgkin s Disease or non Hodgkin s lymphoma Avastin Genentech Inc. CA which is an anti VEGF humanized antibody for the treatment of lung and colorectal cancers Epratuzamab Immunomedics Inc. NJ and Amgen Calif. which is an anti CD22 antibody for the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphoma and CEAcide Immunomedics NJ which is a humanized anti CEA antibody for the treatment of colorectal cancer.

Other antibodies useful in the treatment of cancer include but are not limited to antibodies against the following antigens exemplary cancers are indicated in parentheses CA125 ovarian CA15 3 carcinomas CA19 9 carcinomas L6 carcinomas Lewis Y carcinomas Lewis X carcinomas alpha fetoprotein carcinomas CA 242 colorectal placental alkaline phosphatase carcinomas prostate specific membrane antigen prostate prostatic acid phosphatase prostate epidermal growth factor carcinomas MAGE 1 carcinomas MAGE 2 carcinomas MAGE 3 carcinomas MAGE 4 carcinomas anti transferrin receptor carcinomas p97 melanoma MUC1 KLH breast cancer CEA colorectal gp100 melanoma MARTI melanoma prostate specific antigen PSA prostate IL 2 receptor T cell leukemia and lymphomas CD20 non Hodgkin s lymphoma CD52 leukemia CD33 leukemia CD22 lymphoma human chorionic gonadotropin carcinoma CD38 multiple myeloma CD40 lymphoma mucin carcinomas P21 carcinomas MPG melanoma and Neu oncogene product carcinomas . Some specific useful antibodies include but are not limited to BR96 mAb Trail et al. 1993 Science 261 212 215 BR64 Trail et al. 1997 Cancer Research 57 100 105 mAbs against the CD40 antigen such as S2C6 mAb Francisco et al. 2000 Cancer Res. 60 3225 3231 and chimeric and humanized variants thereof mabs against the cD33 antigen mabs against the EphA2 antigen mAbs against the CD70 antigen such as 1F6 mAb and 2F2 mAb and chimeric and humanized variants thereof and mAbs against the CD30 antigen such as AC10 Bowen et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 151 5896 5906 Wahl et al. 2002 Cancer Res. 62 13 3736 42 and chimeric and humanized variants thereof. Many other internalizing antibodies that bind to tumor associated antigens can be used and have been reviewed see e.g. Franke et al. 2000 Cancer Biother. Radiopharm. 15 459 76 Murray 2000 Semin. Oncol. 27 64 70 Breitling et al. Recombinant Antibodies John Wiley and Sons New York 1998 .

The antibody also can be an antibody that binds to an antigen that is present on a target cell or target cell population. For example transmembrane polypeptides and other markers can be specifically expressed on the surface of one or more particular type s of target cells e.g. a cancer cell as compared to on one or more normal e.g. a non cancerous cell s . Often such markers are more abundantly expressed on the surface of the target cells or exhibit greater immunogenicity as compared to those on the surface of the normal cells. The identification of such cell surface antigen polypeptides has given rise to the ability to specifically target cells for destruction via antibody based therapies. Thus in some embodiments the antibodies include but are not limited to antibodies against tumor associated antigens TAA . Such tumor associated antigens are known in the art and can prepared for use in generating antibodies using methods and information which are well known in the art.

See also EP2552957 WO 2012 116453 WO 2012 032080. See also Zybody http www.zyngenia.com technology.html. See also human heavy chain only antibodies technology http www.crescendobiologics.com . See also WO2010001251 yeast based human antibody yeast based platform http www.adimab.com science and technology technology overview mAbLogix platform http www.dna.com technology monoclonal discovery platform http www.igenica.com technology WO2009 157771 EP2560993 WO2013004842 WO2012166560.

The subject compositions optionally further include a Linker moiety L . L is a bifunctional compound which can be used to link a D and a T to form a conjugate composition T L D. Such conjugates allow the selective delivery of drugs to target cells e.g. tumor cells . L s include a divalent substituent such as an alkyldiyl an aryldiyl a heteroaryldiyl moieties such as CR O CR repeating units of alkyloxy e.g. polyethylenoxy PEG polymethyleneoxy and alkylamino e.g. polyethyleneamino Jeffamine and diacid ester and amides including succinate succinamide diglycolate malonate and caproamide.

The subject compositions can be prepared using a L unit having a reactive site for binding to the D and T . In some embodiments L has a reactive site which has an electrophilic group that is reactive to a nucleophilic group present on T . Useful nucleophilic groups on T include but are not limited to sulfhydryl hydroxyl and amino groups. The heteroatom of the nucleophilic group of T is reactive to an electrophilic group on L and forms a covalent bond to L . Useful electrophilic groups include but are not limited to maleimide and haloacetamide groups. The nucleophilic group on T provides a convenient site for attachment to L .

In another embodiment L has a reactive site which has a nucleophilic group that is reactive to an electrophilic group present on T . Useful electrophilic groups on T include but are not limited to aldehyde and ketone carbonyl groups. The heteroatom of a nucleophilic group of L can react with an electrophilic group on T and form a covalent bond to T . Useful nucleophilic groups on L include but are not limited to hydrazide oxime amino hydrazine thiosemicarbazone hydrazine carboxylate and arylhydrazide. The electrophilic group on T provides a convenient site for attachment to L .

Carboxylic acid functional groups and chloroformate functional groups are also useful reactive sites for L because they can react with amino groups of a D to form an amide linkage. Also useful as a reactive site is a carbonate functional group on L such as but not limited to p nitrophenyl carbonate which can react with an amino group of a D to form a carbamate linkage.

It will be appreciated that any linker moieties taught in the prior art and particularly those taught for use in the context of drug delivery may be used in the current invention. Without limiting the scope of the preceding statement in one embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2012 113847. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 288 352. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 028 697. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 006 652. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 094 849. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 053 394. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 122 368. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 578. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 547 667. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 622 929. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 708 146. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 468 522. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 103 236. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 638 509. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 214 345. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 759 509. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2007 103288. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2008 083312. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2003 068144. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2004 016801. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2009 134976. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2009 134952. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2009 134977. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2002 08180. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2004 043493. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2007 018431. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2003 026577. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2005 077090. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2005 082023. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2007 011968. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2007 038658. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2007 059404. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2006 110476. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2005 112919. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in WO 2008 103693. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 756 037. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 087 229. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 122 189. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 332 164. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 556 623. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 643 573. In another embodiment L comprises a linker moiety disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 665 358. Linkers L comprising a self immolative component may also be used.

For example see U.S. Pat. No. 6 214 345. An example of a self immolative component is p aminobenzylcarbamoyl PABC .

Commercially available linkers may be used in the invention. For example the commercially available cleavable linker sulfosuccinimidyl 6 3 2 pyridyldithio propionamido hexanoate sulfo LC SPDP Thermo Pierce Cat 21650 and Non cleavable linker succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC Thermo Pierce Cat 22360 may be used as demonstrated herein.

See also WO2012171020 WO2010138719 the range of commercially available linkers for example from Concortis http www.concortis.com home. See also Kim et al. BIOCONJUGATE CHEMISTRY 21 8 1513 1519 August 2010. See also EP2326349. See also copper free click chemistry linkers Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2010 49 p. 9422 9425 ChemBioChem 2011 12 p. 1309 1312 http www.synaffix.com technology .

 D is a compound having the structure I as described herein. It will be recognized by the artisan of reasonable skill that compounds of structure I may be appropriately modified to facilitate a conjugation reaction with L or if L is not present with T and formation of a conjugate T L D or T D . Any point of attachment on D may be used. In one embodiment the C terminus of D forms the point of attachment in a T L D conjugate. In another embodiment the N terminus of D forms the point of attachment in a T L D conjugate. In another embodiment a side chain of D forms the point of attachment in a T L D conjugate.

For the purposes of administration the compounds of the present disclosure may be administered as a raw chemical or may be formulated as pharmaceutical compositions. Pharmaceutical compositions of the present disclosure comprise a compound of structure I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient. The compound of structure I is present in the composition in an amount which is effective to treat a particular disease or condition of interest that is in an amount sufficient to treat cancer or tumour cell growth and preferably with acceptable toxicity to the patient. The activity of compounds of structure I can be determined by one skilled in the art for example as described in the Examples below. Appropriate concentrations and dosages can be readily determined by one skilled in the art.

Administration of the compounds of the disclosure or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts in pure form or in an appropriate pharmaceutical composition can be carried out via any of the accepted modes of administration of agents for serving similar utilities. The pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure can be prepared by combining a compound of the disclosure with an appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient and may be formulated into preparations in solid semi solid liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets capsules powders granules ointments solutions suppositories injections inhalants gels microspheres and aerosols. Typical routes of administering such pharmaceutical compositions include without limitation oral topical transdermal inhalation parenteral sublingual buccal rectal vaginal and intranasal. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure are formulated so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions that will be administered to a subject or patient take the form of one or more dosage units where for example a tablet may be a single dosage unit and a container of a compound of the disclosure in aerosol form may hold a plurality of dosage units. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art for example see 20th Edition Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science 2000 . The composition to be administered will in any event contain a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the disclosure or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for treatment of a disease or condition of interest in accordance with the teachings of this disclosure.

A pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure may be in the form of a solid or liquid. In one aspect the carrier s are particulate so that the compositions are for example in tablet or powder form. The carrier s may be liquid with the compositions being for example an oral syrup injectable liquid or an aerosol which is useful in for example inhalatory administration.

When intended for oral administration pharmaceutical compositions of the present disclosure typically are either solid or liquid form where semi solid semi liquid suspension and gel forms are included within the forms considered herein as either solid or liquid.

As a solid composition for oral administration the pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated into a powder granule compressed tablet pill capsule chewing gum wafer or the like form. Such a solid composition will typically contain one or more inert diluents or edible carriers. In addition one or more of the following may be present binders such as carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin excipients such as starch lactose or dextrins disintegrating agents such as alginic acid sodium alginate Primogel corn starch and the like lubricants such as magnesium stearate or Sterotex glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring and a coloring agent.

When the pharmaceutical composition is in the form of a capsule for example a gelatin capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure may be in the form of a liquid for example an elixir syrup solution emulsion or suspension. The liquid may be for oral administration or for delivery by injection as two examples. When intended for oral administration pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure typically contain in addition to the present compounds one or more of a sweetening agent preservatives dye colorant and flavor enhancer. In a composition intended to be administered by injection one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent may be included.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure whether they be solutions suspensions or other like form may include one or more of the following adjuvants sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. Parenteral preparations can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. Physiological saline is a preferred adjuvant. An injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A liquid pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure intended for either parenteral or oral administration should contain an amount of a compound of the disclosure such that a suitable dosage will be obtained.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure may be intended for topical administration in which case the carrier may suitably comprise a solution emulsion ointment or gel base. The base for example may comprise one or more of the following petrolatum lanolin polyethylene glycols bee wax mineral oil diluents such as water and alcohol and emulsifiers and stabilizers. Thickening agents may be present in a pharmaceutical composition for topical administration. If intended for transdermal administration the composition may include a transdermal patch or iontophoresis device.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure may be intended for rectal administration in the form for example of a suppository which will melt in the rectum and release the drug. Compositions for rectal administration may contain an oleaginous base as a suitable nonirritating excipient. Such bases include without limitation lanolin cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure may include various materials which modify the physical form of a solid or liquid dosage unit. For example the composition may include materials that form a coating shell around the active ingredients. The materials that form the coating shell are typically inert and may be selected from for example sugar shellac and other enteric coating agents. Alternatively the active ingredients may be encased in a gelatin capsule.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure may be prepared in dosage units that can be administered as an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to denote a variety of systems ranging from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting of pressurized packages. Delivery may be by a liquefied or compressed gas or by a suitable pump system that dispenses the active ingredients. Aerosols of compounds of the disclosure may be delivered in single phase bi phasic or tri phasic systems in order to deliver the active ingredient s . Delivery of the aerosol includes the necessary container activators valves subcontainers and the like which together may form a kit. One skilled in the art without undue experimentation may determine preferred aerosols.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure may be prepared by methodology well known in the pharmaceutical art. For example a pharmaceutical composition intended to be administered by injection can be prepared by combining a compound of the disclosure with sterile distilled water so as to form a solution. A surfactant may be added to facilitate the formation of a homogeneous solution or suspension. Surfactants are compounds that non covalently interact with the compound of the disclosure so as to facilitate dissolution or homogeneous suspension of the compound in the aqueous delivery system.

The compounds of the disclosure or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts are administered in a therapeutically effective amount which will vary depending upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the metabolic stability and length of action of the compound the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient the mode and time of administration the rate of excretion the drug combination the severity of the particular disorder or condition and the subject undergoing therapy.

Compounds of the disclosure or pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives thereof may also be administered simultaneously with prior to or after administration of one or more other therapeutic agents. Such combination therapy includes administration of a single pharmaceutical dosage formulation which contains a compound of the disclosure and one or more additional active agents as well as administration of the compound of the disclosure and each active agent in its own separate pharmaceutical dosage formulation. For example a compound of the disclosure and the other active agent can be administered to the patient together in a single oral dosage composition such as a tablet or capsule or each agent administered in separate oral dosage formulations. Where separate dosage formulations are used the compounds of the disclosure and one or more additional active agents can be administered at essentially the same time i.e. concurrently or at separately staggered times i.e. sequentially combination therapy is understood to include all these regimens.

It is understood that in the present description combinations of substituents and or variables of the depicted formulae are permissible only if such contributions result in stable compounds.

It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in the synthetic processes described herein the functional groups of intermediate compounds may need to be protected by suitable protecting groups. Such functional groups include hydroxy amino mercapto and carboxylic acid. As described above suitable protecting groups for hydroxy include trialkylsilyl or diarylalkylsilyl for example t butyldimethylsilyl 1 butyldiphenylsilyl or trimethylsilyl tetrahydropyranyl benzyl and the like and suitable protecting groups for amino amidino and guanidino include t butoxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for mercapto include C O R where R is alkyl aryl or arylalkyl p methoxybenzyl trityl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for carboxylic acid include alkyl aryl or arylalkyl esters. Protecting groups may be added or removed in accordance with standard techniques which are known to one skilled in the art and as described herein. The use of protecting groups is described in detail in Green T. W. and P. G. M. Wutz 1999 3rd Ed. Wiley. As one of skill in the art would appreciate the protecting group may also be a polymer resin such as a Wang resin Rink resin or a 2 chlorotrityl chloride resin.

It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art although a protected derivative of compounds of this disclosure may not possess pharmacological activity as such they may be administered to a mammal and thereafter metabolized in the body to form compounds of the disclosure which are pharmacologically active. Such derivatives may therefore be described as prodrugs . All prodrugs of compounds of this disclosure are included within the scope of the present disclosure.

Furthermore compounds of the disclosure which exist in free base or acid form can be converted to their pharmaceutically acceptable salts by treatment with the appropriate inorganic or organic base or acid by methods known to one skilled in the art. Salts of the compounds of the disclosure can be converted to their free base or acid form by standard techniques.

The following Examples illustrate various methods of making compounds of this disclosure i.e. compound of structures I and II . It is understood that one skilled in the art may be able to make these compounds by similar methods or by combining other methods known to one skilled in the art. It is also understood that one skilled in the art would be able to make in a similar manner as described below other compounds of structure I and II not specifically illustrated below by using the appropriate starting components and modifying the parameters of the synthesis as needed. In general starting components may be obtained from sources such as Sigma Aldrich Lancaster Synthesis Inc. Maybridge Matrix Scientific TCI and Fluorochem USA etc. or synthesized according to sources known to those skilled in the art see for example Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 5th edition Wiley December 2000 or prepared as described herein.

To a stirred suspension of the amine in 1 4 dioxane was added trifluoroacetic anhydride 1.1 equivalents . The reaction mixture transitioned from a suspension to a solution and back to a suspension again. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC and or HPLC MS for completion. Once the starting material was fully consumed the reaction was diluted with hexanes or diethyl ether filtered on a Buchner funnel and the resulting solids were dried under reduced pressure to give the pure trifluoroacetamide.

To a stirred solution of the acid in dichloromethane was added a solution of the sulfonamide 1.3 equivalents in dichloromethane N N dimethylformamide or a mixture thereof as necessary . Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.2 equivalents was added and subsequently N N dimethylaminopyridine 1.2 equivalents . Reaction course was monitored by HPLC MS typically 16 h and excess by products could be precipitated by the addition of diethyl ether. Solids were removed by filtration and washed with 1 1 diethyl ether dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography or optionally prep HPLC to give the desired N acyl sulfonamide.

To a solution of the trifluoroacetamide or ester containing construct in 1 4 dioxane or methanol was added lithium hydroxide 10 equivalents and water 10 v v . The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature or optionally heated to 50 C. Reaction course was monitored by HPLC MS. Upon completion volatiles were removed under reduced pressure the aqueous layer was pH adjusted if necessary and washed successively with dichloromethane or ethyl acetate. The organic phases were pooled dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The reaction product was either used as is or purified by silica gel chromatography as necessary.

To a stirred solution of the carboxylic acid in a minimal amount of dichloromethane or N N dimethylformamide or mixture thereof at 0 C. was added HATU equivalents and N N diisopropylethylamine 4 equivalents . Stirring was continued for a brief induction period 5 20 minutes at which time the reaction was charged with a solution of the amine in dichloromethane. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and monitored for progress by HPLC MS. Upon completion volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residual material was purified by silica gel chromatography or reverse phase HPLC to furnish amide in adequate purity.

To a solution of the Boc protected construct in dichloromethane was added 10 v v trifluoroacetic acid. Reaction course was monitored by HPLC MS. Upon completion all volatiles were removed under reduced pressure. The residual material was purified either by reverse phase HPLC silica gel chromatography or precipitation from a mixture of cold methanol dichloromethane diethyl ether.

A suspension of aryl bromide aryl or alkenyl boronic acid 1.5 eq Pd OAc 10 mol 2 di tert butylphosphino biphenyl 20 mol and KPO 3 eq in THF was stirred under Nat ambient temperature for 16 h or 50 C. for 2 h . The resulting brown reaction mixture was dilute with ether and washed with 1M NaOH 3 . The aqueous washes were combined and extracted with ether 2 . The organics were combined dried over MgSO filtered concentrated in vacuo and purified via silica gel column chromatography eluted with MeOH CHClmixtures to afford the cross coupled product.

A mixture of aryl bromide CuBr 20 mol NaOMe 20 eq 4.9M in MeOH and EtOAc 1.5 eq was stirred under Nat 95 C. for 16 h. The resulting mixture was diluted with HO and poured into cold 0 C. stirring 1M citric acid. After stirring for 10 min the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 4 . The organics were combined washed with HO 2 and brine 1 dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The product was used in the next step without further purification.

The procedure for Weinreb amide synthesis reduction and subsequent olephination thereof as described by Nieman J. A. et al. J. Nat. Prod. 2003 66 183 199 was employed to the desired commercially available amino acids with no modifications.

The vinylogous amino ester was deprotected and coupled to Boc t leucine according to procedures described by Nieman J. A. et al. J. Nat. Prod. 2003 66 183 199 with no modifications.

To a suspension of the desired alkyl halide in 2 1 HO EtOH was added sodium sulfite 1.2 equiv . The resulting mixture was heated to reflux for 6 24 h. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature the solvents were removed at reduced pressure to remove ethanol and the product was precipitated. The sodium alkylsulfonate were filtered collected and dried in vacuo. These solids were then suspended in dichloromethane and phosphorous pentachloride 2 equiv was added with stirring. The resulting suspension was heated to reflux for 2 h and allowed to cool to room temperature. The reactions were then cooled to 0 C. and water was added dropwise to consume excess phosphorous pentachloride. The mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel and the organic phase was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to give the desired sulfonyl chloride. The thusly derived chloride was subsequently dissolved in THF and added dropwise to a stirred aqueous solution of concentrated ammonium hydroxide at 0 C. Upon completion of the addition the reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure and diluted with water and ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to give the desired sulfonamide in sufficient purity for further use.

To a stirred mixture of the desired aryl substituted compound in chloroform was added chlorosulfonic acid 4 equiv . The reaction was heated to 70 C. for 1 h and allowed to cool to room temperature. Thionyl chloride 2 equiv was added and the reaction was again heated to 70 C. for 1 h. The contents of the reaction vessel were concentrated under reduced pressure to give an oil which was subsequently twice dissolved in toluene and concentrated under reduced pressure to remove residual acid. The remaining material was dissolved in THF and added dropwise to a concentrated stirred solution of ammonium hydroxide at 0 C. Once the addition was complete the reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic phase was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to give the desired phenylsulfonamide in adequate purity for further use.

The procedures used to generate the desired sulfonamides were adapted from Winum J. Y. et al. 2001 3 14 2241 2243

The appropriate intermediate amine or aniline was taken up in DMF 90 mg mL and to this was added 1 hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 0.3 eq then commercially obtained MC VC PABC PNP 4 R 2 R 2 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido 3 methylbutanamido 5 ureidopentanamido benzyl 4 nitrophenyl carbonate 1.3 eq as described in Firestone et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 214 345 was added followed by pyridine 25 eq . The reaction was covered to protect from light and stirred at ambient temperature for 24 to 48 h. The reaction mixture could be purified by concentrating the mixture and performing flash chromatography directly on the crude or alternatively it could be diluted with DMSO to an appropriate volume and injected directly onto a preparatory HPLC to give the pure

All sulfonamides and sulfonamides or prescursors to the materials used in the procedures below were purchased commercially and manipulated if necessary such that they were suitable for use. Specifically General Procedures 1 12 13 and 14 were employed to manipulate commercially available starting materials unless otherwise noted below. Sulfonamide analogs of the N acyl sulfonamide containing compounds disclosed herein may be synthesized by the artisan of reasonable skill based on the teachings herein and knowledge in the art and are included within the scope of the invention.

To a stirred slurry of potassium bromide 1.904 g in water 2.8 mL was added 1 3 propanesultone. The reaction was heated to 60 C. with stirring for 1 h and allowed to cool to room temperature. Ethanol 45 mL was added with stirring and a precipitate formed. The suspension was filtered on a Buchner funnel and the solids were collected and dried at high vacuum over night to give potassium 3 bromopropane 1 sulfonate 2.90 g 12.0 mmol as a white solid.

The above solid was added to a round bottom flask equipped with a stir bar. Phosphorous pentachloride 3.22 g 1.3 equiv was added in a single charge and the flask was gently shaken to mix the solids. A gas was observed to form and the solids became slightly molten. A singular drop of water was added to the mixture and a vigorous evolution of gas was observed with more significant melting of the reaction mixture. The flask was submerged in an oil bath at 70 C. and the molten mixture manipulated to attempt to make it as uniform as possible. After 10 minutes of heating the flask was allowed to cool to room temperature and was charged with ice 60 mL and diethyl ether 80 mL and stirred vigorously. The biphasic mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel the organic layer washed with brine then dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to a total volume of 25 mL. The ethereal layer was added to a 100 mL round bottom flask a stir bar was added and the flask was cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath. Ammonia NHOH 28 aq 5 mL was added with vigorous stirring and an emulsion formed. After the emulsion had subsided brine 20 mL and diethyl ether 20 mL were added and the mixture transferred to a separatory funnel. The organic phase was separated dried over MgSOand concentrated to give the title compound as a stiff syrup that solidified on standing 0.782 g .

To a stirred solution of triphenylmethanethiol 0.276 g in N N dimethyl formamide at 0 C. was added sodium hydride 0.04 g 1 equiv . After effervescence had ceased 3 bromopropance 1 sulfonamide 0.100 g 0.5 equiv was added as a solid in a single portion and the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature. Progress of the reaction was monitored by HPLC MS and TLC 40 EtOAc in hexanes . After 2 h the reaction was quenched with water 0.5 mL and concentrated on a rotovap at high vacuum. The resulting oil was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine transferred to a separatory funnel and the organic phase was washed with brine dried over MgSO concentrated and purified by flash chromatography 5 50 EtOAc in hexanes to give the title compound 0.135 g as a white crystalline solid.

Example 4 was synthesized from Examples 2 and 3 according to General Procedures 2 and 7 with the inclusion of tri isoproypsilane 2equiv to Procedure 9.

To a solution of 6S 9S 12S E 9 tert butyl 12 isopropyl 2 2 5 11 14 pentamethyl 4 7 10 trioxo 6 2 phenylpropan 2 yl 3 oxa 5 8 11 triazapentadec 13 en 15 oic acid 0.138 g 2.4 equiv in dichloromethane 4 mL was added 2 2 disulfanediyldiethanesulfonamide 0.028 g di isopropylcarbodiimide 0.044 mL 2.4 equiv and N N dimethylpyridine 0.034 g 2.8 equiv . Stirring was continued for 16 h at which point TLC analysis 5 MeOH with 5 AcOH in 70 30 CHCl Hexanes indicated complete consumption of the disulfanedisulfonamide. The reaction was diluted with hexanes 5 mL filtered to remove solids concentrated and the resultant oil purified by flash chromatography.

The chromatographically purified materials was then dissolved in dichloromethane 3 mL a stir bar was added then trifluoroacetic acid 0.60 mL and tri isopropylsilane 0.20 mL . The mixture immediately went yellow with the colour fading over 5 minutes and conversion of the material to the desired product was monitored by HPLC MS. Upon complete conversion the reaction was concentrated to dryness and the residue purified by flash chromatography 0 15 MeOH containing 5 AcOH in 80 20 CHCl hexanes . HPLC MS showed this isolate to be a mixture of free thiol and disulfide.

1H NMR 400 MHz CD3OD ppm 0.88 3H d J 6.2 Hz 0.93 3H d J 6.2 Hz 1.07 s 9H 1.40 s 3H 1.47 s 3H 1.91 2.05 m 5H 2.32 s 3H 2.67 t 2H J 9.76 Hz 3.07 3.18 m 5H 3.52 3.59 m 2H 3.85 s 1H HH 4.08 br s 1H 4.93 s 1H 5.09 t 1H J 10.0 Hz 6.76 d 1H J 9.5 Hz 7.29 7.35 m 1H 7.39 7.46 m 2H 7.49 7.5 s m 2H . CHNOScalcd. M H 598.15 amu. found m z 598.16.

To a stirred solution of triphenylmethanethiol 0.276 g 2equiv in N N dimethylformamide 3 mL at 0 C. was added sodium hydride 60 w w dispersion in mineral oil 0.04 g 2 equiv . When the effervescence had ceased 4 bromomethyl benzenesulfonamide 0.125 g 1 equiv was added in a single portion and the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature. HPLC MS at 20 minutes indicated that conversion was complete. The reaction was quenched with acetic acid 0.2 mL concentrated to dryness in vacuo and the subsequent residue partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic layer was separated dried over MgSO filtered concentrated and purified by flash chromatography 0 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes . Fractions containing the desired material were concentrated to dryness to furnish the desired compound as a colourless solid 0.200 g .

The title compound was synthesized using methods as described by Nieman et al. in J. Nat. Prod. 2003 66 183 199.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.60 7.55 m 2H 7.47 n 2H 7.37 m 1H 7.03 s 2H 6.50 d J 6 Hz 1H 5.06 4.91 m 3H 4.34 s 1H 3.17 s 3H 2.68 s 6H 2.51 s 3H 2.31 s 3H 2.07 m 6.6 Hz 2H 1.87 s 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.36 s 3H 1.09 1.04 m J 16.8 Hz 10H 0.92 t J 6.3 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 trifluoromethoxyphenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.16 dd J 8.7 1.4 Hz 1H 7.69 7.28 m 4H 6.52 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 5.02 4.95 m 1H 4.92 s 0H 4.35 s 1H 3.17 s 1H 2.51 s 1H 2.05 ddd J 15.9 10.9 3.7 Hz 1H 1.87 s 1H 1.47 s 1H 1.36 s 1H 1.07 s 4H 0.91 t J 6.1 Hz 3H .

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.56 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.47 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 7.38 brs 6H 6.39 d J 9.4 Hz 1H 5.06 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.93 s 1H 4.75 s 2H 4.36 s 1H 3.13 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.06 1.95 m 4H 1.48 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.09 s 9H 0.90 t J 6.2 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 4 6 tri isopropylphenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.61 7.53 m 2H 7.47 t J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.41 7.33 m 1H 7.27 s 2H 6.50 dd J 9.6 1.8 Hz 1H 5.05 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.92 s 1H 4.43 4.26 m 3H 3.16 s 3H 2.94 dd J 14.3 7.4 Hz 1H 2.51 s 3H 2.07 1.99 m 2H 1.90 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.48 s 4H 1.39 s 3H 1.33 1.22 m 18H 1.11 s 2H 1.06 s 9H 0.91 t J 6.0 Hz 7H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 tertbutylphenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.98 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.64 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.55 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.47 t J 7.7 Hz 3H 7.37 t J 7.1 Hz 1H 6.48 dd J 9.6 1.8 Hz 1H 4.99 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.92 s 1H 4.35 s 1H 3.16 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 1.87 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.47 s 3H 1.38 s 10H 1.06 s 9H 0.91 t J 6.2 Hz 7H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 chlorophenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.03 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.60 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.57 7.51 m 2H 7.47 dd J 8.6 6.9 Hz 2H 7.42 7.32 m 1H 6.50 dd J 9.2 1.7 Hz 1H 4.96 dd J 10.9 9.1 Hz 2H 4.92 s 1H 4.35 s 1H 3.17 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.14 2.03 m 1H 2.01 s 1H 1.87 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.46 s 3H 1.36 s 3H 1.07 s 9H 0.91 dd J 6.5 4.6 Hz 7H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 3 cyanophenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.38 s 1H 8.31 dt J 8.0 1.5 Hz 1H 8.02 7.92 m 1H 7.75 t J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.53 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 7.48 dd J 8.6 6.9 Hz 2H 7.43 7.33 m 1H 6.55 dd J 9.3 1.7 Hz 1H 4.93 d J 5.4 Hz 2H 4.35 s 1H 3.18 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.15 1.98 m 2H 1.87 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.45 s 3H 1.32 s 3H 1.07 s 9H 0.92 dd J 6.6 3.9 Hz 7H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 nitrophenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.36 8.27 m 1H 7.82 dd J 5.9 3.8 Hz 3H 7.61 7.51 m 2H 7.47 dd J 8.6 6.9 Hz 2H 7.42 7.31 m 1H 6.63 dd J 9.5 1.7 Hz 1H 5.03 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.93 s 1H 4.36 s 1H 3.18 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.12 2.01 m 1H 1.88 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.37 s 3H 1.06 s 9H 0.97 0.86 m 6H .

Title compound Was prepared from Example 3 and 2 nitro 4 methoxyphenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.24 d J 8.9 Hz 1H 7.59 7.51 m 2H 7.47 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.44 7.25 m 4H 6.60 dd J 9.2 1.7 Hz 1H 5.03 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.93 s 1H 4.36 s 1H 3.97 s 3H 3.18 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.13 2.02 m 1H 1.89 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.38 s 3H 1.11 s 2H 1.06 s 9H 0.99 0.88 m 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 3 nitro 4 sulfamoylbenzamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.35 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.22 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.59 7.51 m 2H 7.47 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.37 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.70 6.57 m 1H 5.04 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.94 s 1H 4.37 s 1H 3.17 s 3H 2.52 s 3H 2.05 ddd J 10.3 7.4 5.5 Hz 1H 1.87 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.38 s 3H 1.06 s 9H 0.92 dd J 14.7 6.8 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 methoxyphenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.97 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 7.54 d J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.46 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.36 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 6.48 dd J 9.3 1.9 Hz 1H 4.97 t J 9.9 Hz 1H 4.92 s 1H 4.22 s 1H 3.89 s 3H 3.15 s 3H 2.46 s 3H 2.10 1.99 m 2H 1.86 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.46 s 3H 1.36 s 3H 1.06 s 9H 0.94 0.84 m 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.06 d J 8.9 Hz 2H 7.88 d J 8.9 Hz 2H 7.52 d 7.1 Hz 2H 7.49 7.40 m 3H 7.35 dd J 8.1 6.1 Hz 1H 6.47 dd J 9.2 1.8 Hz 1H 4.33 s 1H 3.15 s 3H 2.48 s 3H 2.13 1.96 m 2H 1.85 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.43 s 3H 1.33 s 3H 1.04 s 9H 0.89 dd J 6.8 4.7 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide using General Procedures 2 3 and 7

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.06 7.95 m 2H 7.63 7.40 m 8H 7.40 7.30 m 1H 6.53 dd J 9.3 1.6 Hz 1H 5.05 4.95 m 1H 4.22 s 1H 3.14 s 3H 2.45 s 3H 2.09 1.95 m 1H 1.85 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.46 s 3H 1.36 s 3H 1.06 s 9H 0.89 dd J 11.9 6.5 Hz 7H .

2 fluorobenzylsulfamamide was prepared from 2 fluorobenzylamine according to General Procedure 14 the title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 fluorobenzylsulfamamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.63 7.41 m 6H 7.41 7.26 m 3H 7.14 td J 7.5 1.2 Hz 1H 7.07 ddd J 9.5 8.2 1.1 Hz 1H 6.37 dd 9.4 1.7 Hz 1H 5.07 4.97 m 1H 4.37 s 1H 4.33 s 2H 3.15 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.10 1.97 m 1H 1.83 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.49 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.09 s 9H 0.97 0.84 m 6H .

Piperidine 1 sulfonamide was synthesized from piperidine according to General Procedure 14 the title compound was prepared from Example 3 and piperidine 1 sulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.55 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 7.47 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 7.42 7.29 m 1H 6.48 dd J 9.7 1.8 Hz 1H 5.05 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.39 s 1H 3.18 s 3H 2.52 s 3H 2.07 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 1.96 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.61 ddd J 20.0 10.3 5.4 Hz 9H 1.49 s 4H 1.39 s 3H 1.09 s 9H 0.99 0.84 m 9H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 toluenesulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.10 dd J 8.0 1.4 Hz 1H 7.60 7.33 m 11H 6.52 dd J 9.6 1.7 Hz 1H 5.04 4.90 m 2H 4.35 s 1H 3.18 s 3H 2.67 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.15 2.03 m 2H 2.01 s 1H 1.87 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.46 s 3H 1.35 s 3H 1.07 s 9H 0.92 t J 6.3 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 bromophenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.95 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.76 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.55 d J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.47 dd J 8.6 6.9 Hz 2H 7.41 7.29 m 1H 6.51 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.35 s 1H 3.16 s 3H 2.50 s 3H 2.06 dt J 10.7 6.3 Hz 1H 1.87 s 3H 1.46 s 3H 1.36 s 3H 1.07 s 9H 0.91 dd J 6.9 4.9 Hz 8H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 naphthylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.69 8.62 m 1H 8.47 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 8.14 7.95 m 5H 7.71 dddd J 18.4 8.2 6.9 1.4 Hz 2H 7.57 7.50 m 2H 7.46 dd J 8.6 6.9 Hz 2H 7.42 7.33 m 1H 6.50 dd J 9.3 1.5 Hz 1H 4.92 4.87 m 1H 4.34 s 1H 3.16 s 3H 2.50 s 3H 2.13 1.99 m 1H 1.85 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.44 s 3H 1.34 s 3H 1.04 s 9H 0.90 dd J 6.6 4.0 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 carboxymethylphenylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.24 8.10 m 4H 7.58 7.50 m 2H 7.47 dd J 8.6 6.9 Hz 2H 7.41 7.33 m 1H 6.52 dd J 9.2 1.6 Hz 1H 4.35 s 1H 3.97 s 3H 3.18 s 3H 2.50 s 31 0 2.15 2.00 m 1H 1.86 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.45 s 3H 1.35 s 3H 1.07 s 9H 0.91 dd J 6.7 3.8 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 trifluoromethylbenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.78 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.74 7.67 m 1H 7.64 dd J 8.1 6.7 Hz 1H 7.60 7.52 m 2H 7.48 dd J 8.5 6.8 Hz 4H 7.42 7.33 m 1H 6.48 6.40 m 1H 5.11 5.02 m 1H 4.45 s 2H 4.37 s 1H 3.17 s 3H 2.52 s 3H 2.11 1.99 m 2H 1.92 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.49 s 3H 1.40 s 3H 1.09 s 9H 0.92 dd J 9.3 6.7 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and hexane 2 sulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.56 7.48 m 2H 7.42 t J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.31 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.58 6.50 m 1H 5.05 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.92 s 1H 3.84 s 1H 3.65 dt J 10.8 4.3 Hz 1H 3.14 s 3H 2.32 s 3H 2.09 1.96 m 2H 1.93 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.61 1.27 m 3H 1.06 s 9H 0.98 0.90 m 6H 0.87 d J 6.5 Hz 3H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 methoxyethanesulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.56 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.47 t 7.6 Hz 2H 7.37 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.51 d J 9.4 Hz 1H 5.07 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.95 s 1H 4.33 s 1H 3.82 t J 5.8 Hz 2H 3.70 q J 5.2 Hz 2H 3.18 s 3H 2.50 s 3H 2.18 2.00 m 1H 1.95 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.49 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.09 s 9H 0.93 dd J 14.8 6.6 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and cyclopentylmethanesulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.61 7.52 m 2H 7.48 dd J 8.6 6.9 Hz 2H 7.38 t J 7.4 Hz 1H 6.54 dd J 9.4 1.7 Hz 1H 5.06 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.94 s 1H 4.37 s 1H 3.52 dd J 7.0 5.4 Hz 3H 3.18 s 3H 2.52 s 3H 2.35 p J 8.1 Hz 1H 2.16 1.89 m 6H 1.77 1.53 m 4H 1.49 s 3H 1.45 1.26 m 5H 1.09 s 9H 0.93 dd J 11.3 6.7 Hz 6H .

To a mixture of the methyl ester of Example 38 0.06 g 0.15 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 0.014 g 0.015 mmol 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 0.02 g 0.25 equiv magnesium acetate 0.013 g 0.06 mmol zinc dust 0.004 g 0.06 mmol and zinc cyanide 0.0264 g 0.225 mmol under a bath of nitrogen was added N N dimethylformamide water 0.8 0.08 mL . The reaction was sparged with nitrogen gas then the vial was sealed and immersed in an oil bath at 105 C. The reaction was allowed to stir overnight and allowed to cool to room temperature. HPLC MS analysis indicated good conversion to the desired product. The reaction was concentrated at reduced pressure suspended in CHCland the resulting suspension purified by silica gel chromatography 15 25 EtOAc in Hexanes to yield the final compound as a colourless oil 0.036 g 69 .

To a solution of the benzonitrile 0.300 g 0.87 mmol in methanol acetic acid 10 1 9 mL in a shaker vessel was added palladium black. The flask was charged with hydrogen gas at 60 psi and the shaker turned on for 24 h. At that time the vessel was purged of Hunder reduced pressure. The reaction was diluted with methanol and the suspension filtered through a celite pad. The filtrate was concentrated to a slightly yellow oil and re dissolved in dichloromethane 5 mL . t butyl dicarbonate 0.524 g 2.0 equiv and triethylamine 0.846 mL 5 equiv were added to the solution at 0 C. with stirring. The reaction was allowed to stir for 3 h at which time HPLC MS indicated complete consumption of the amine. The reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by silica gel chromatography diethyl ether in hexanes 15 30 to yield the title compound as a colourless oil 0.232 g 60 .

1H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.38 dd J 16.6 8.0 Hz 2H 7.23 d J 7.7 Hz 2H 5.27 s 1H 4.31 s 2H 3.61 s 3H 2.78 s 3H 1.50 1.61 m 6H 1.47 d J 15.2 Hz 18H .

To a stirred solution of S methyl 3 4 bromophenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino 3 methylbutanoate 0.710 g 1.77 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 4 mL was added water 1 mL 2 mL and lithium hydroxide monohydrate 0.367 g 8.9 mmol . The reaction was heated to 50 C. and monitored by HPLC for completion. The reaction was cooled to room temperature acidified to pH 3 with 1M citric acid and concentrated to near dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was taken up in 20 mL ethyl acetate washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to give analytically pure material that was used without further manipulation.

1H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.44 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.33 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 5.18 s 1H 2.71 s 3H 1.60 1.42 m 15H .

To an open pressure tube containing a magnetic stir bar was added Example 38 0.690 g 1.8 mmol copper I iodide 0.034 g 0.18 mmol sodium azide 0.350 g 5.4 mmol N1 N2 dimethylethane 1 2 diamine 0.029 mL 0.27 mmol sodium ascorbate 0.036 g 0.18 mmol sodium hydroxide 0.072 g 1.8 mmol ethanol 6 mL and water 1 mL . The suspension was sparged with nitrogen gas the vessel was sealed and immersed in an oil bath at 105 C. with vigorous stirring. The course of reaction was monitored by HPLC MS over the course of 24 h at which time little starting material remained. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 20 mL and washed with brined. The aqueous layer was extracted 2 with 20 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 20 65 EtOAc containing 2 v v AcOH in hexanes to give the title compound as a colourless oil 0.475 g 75 .

1H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.44 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.99 dd J 9.0 3.4 Hz 2H 5.24 s 1H 2.71 s 3H 1.63 1.38 m 18H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 36 and S E 4 S 2 amino N 3 3 trimethylbutanamido N benzylsulfonyl 2 5 dimethylhex 2 enamide using General Procedures 3 4 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 37 and S E 4 S 2 amino N 3 3 trimethylbutanamido N benzylsulfonyl 2 5 dimethylhex 2 enamide using General Procedures 3 4 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.63 t J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.54 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.49 7.43 m 3H 7.39 m 2H 6.39 d J 9.4 Hz 1H 5.05 4.97 m 1H 4.75 s 2H 4.35 s 3H 4.16 s 2H 3.14 s 3H 2.54 s 3H 2.03 m 1H 1.95 s 3H 1.51 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.31 s 3H 1.09 s 9H 0.98 0.81 m 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 39 and S E 4 S 2 amino N 3 3 trimethylbutanamido N benzylsulfonyl 2 5 dimethylhex 2 enamide using General Procedures 4 and 7.

To a stirred solution of Boc protected Example 42 0.035 g 0.046 mmol in ethanol 1.6 mL and water 0.5 mL was added zinc dust 0.015 g 0.23 mmol and ammonium chloride 0.025 g 0.46 mmol . After 1 h HPLC MS indicated complete consumption of the starting material. The reaction was quenched with ammonium hydroxide 0.1 mL and diluted with ethyl actetate 5 mL . The reaction was filtered the solids washed with ethyl acetate 5 mL and the biphasic filtrate transferred to a separatory funnel. The aqueous phase was washed twice with ethyl acetate 5 mL and the organic phases were combined washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The reaction product was purified by silica gel chromatography 5 15 MeOH in CHCl to afford the Boc protected intermediate as a colouless glass 0.027 g 66 . The intermediate was deprotected according to General Procedure 7 to give the title compound.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and cyclohexylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.61 7.52 m 2H 7.47 dd J 8.6 6.9 Hz 2H 7.36 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 6.61 6.50 m 1H 5.11 4.99 m 1H 4.94 s 1H 4.28 s 1H 3.59 3.51 m 1H 3.18 s 3H 2.48 s 3H 2.20 2.00 m 4H 1.97 1.87 m 6H 1.78 1.69 m 1H 1.60 td J 14.2 10.9 Hz 2H 1.48 s 3H 1.44 1.23 m 6H 1.09 s 9H 0.93 dd J 13.7 6.6 Hz 7H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and pyridin 3 ylmethanesulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.55 d J 1.7 Hz 1H 8.48 dd J 5.0 1.6 Hz 1H 7.89 d J 8.0 Hz 0H 7.55 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.50 7.39 m 2H 7.35 s 1H 6.52 dd J 9.6 2.0 Hz 1H 5.05 s 0H 4.94 s 1H 4.64 s 2H 4.19 s 1H 3.11 s 3H 2.45 s 3H 1.91 d J 1.5 Hz 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.07 s 8H 0.89 dd J 15.1 6.5 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and methyl 4 sulfamoylbenzoate using General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.25 8.07 m 4H 7.54 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.47 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.37 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.55 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 4.98 t J 9.9 Hz 1H 4.92 s 1H 4.36 s 1H 3.16 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.06 q J 9.0 7.7 Hz 1H 1.88 s 3H 1.46 s 3H 1.36 s 3H 1.06 s 9H 0.91 t J 6.0 Hz 6H 

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 3 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 3 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide using General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and pyridine 3 sulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and thiophene 2 sulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy benzenesulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Tritylmercaptan 1.48 g 5.36 mmol 1.05 eq in THF 5 mL was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 214 mg 5.36 mmol 1.05 eq in THF 5 mL under Nat 0 C. After 15 min 4 bromomethyl benzonitrile 1.00 g 5.10 mmol 1.0 eq in THF 5 mL was added and the reaction was allowed to come to rt. After 1 h TLC indicated complete conversion of starting material. The reaction was quenched by adding saturated ammonium chloride then some dHO. The mixture was extracted three times with ether washed with saturated brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to a viscous yellow oil. Purification by flash chromatography gave the title compound 1.76 g 88 as a light white powder.

4 tritylthiomethyl benzonitrile 1.47 g 3.75 mmol 1.0 eq was taken up in 40 mL THF under Natmosphere then cooled to 78 C. To this solution was added Ti O iPr 1.21 mL 4.13 mmol 1.1 eq then ethylmagnesium bromide 3 M 2.75 mL 8.26 mmol 2.2 eq was added dropwise over 5 min. The dry ice bath was removed allowing the solution to reach rt. After 45 min at rt BF.EtO 0.93 mL 7.51 mmol 2.0 eq was added to the now very dark reaction mixture. After stirring for an additional 2.5 h the reaction was quenched with 5 mL of 2 M HCl followed by pH adjustment to strong base with about 15 mL 2 M NaOH. Some water was added to the mixture then it was extracted three times with 75 mL EtOAc washed once with dHO once with saturated brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to a clear oil. The material was purified by flash chromatography to afford the title compound 680 mg 36 as a clear oil.

To a stirred solution of 1 4 tritylthiomethyl phenyl cyclopropanamine 680 mg 1.61 mmol 1.0 eq in CHClwas added trifluoroacetic anhydride 0.448 mL 3.22 mmol 2.0 eq and triethylamine 0.45 mL 3.22 mmol 2.0 eq . After two hours TLC and HPLC indicated complete conversion of starting material. The reaction was quenched by the addition of 3 mL NaHCO then some dHO was added and the mixture was extracted three times with CHCl. The combined organics were washed with saturated brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to a yellow foam giving the title compound 715 mg 86 in sufficient purity to move to the next step.

1H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.48 d J 7.7 Hz 6H 7.32 t 7.6 Hz 6H 7.25 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 7.19 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.10 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 6.83 s 1H 3.31 s 2H 1.40 1.24 m 4H . m z calcd. for CHFNOS 517.17. Found M Na 540.25. R 0.71 50 EtOAc Hex .

2 2 2 trifluoro N 1 4 tritylthiomethyl phenyl cyclopropyl acetamide 715 mg 1.38 mmol 1.0 eq in 5 mL CHClwas treated with 2.5 mL TFA. After 1 min TIPSH 0.42 mL 2.1 mmol 1.5 eq was added causing the yellow color to fade. After 30 min TLC indicated the reaction to be complete. The mixture was concentrated then co evaporated once with CHCland twice with toluene. The residue was purified by flash chromatography to afford the title compound 261 mg 69 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.35 7.23 m 4H 6.87 s 1H 3.74 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 1.77 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 1.36 s 4H . R 0.47 20 EtOAc Hex .

To a stirred solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro N 1 4 mercaptomethyl phenyl cyclopropyl acetamide 220 mg 0.799 mmol 1.0 eq in acetonitrile were added dHO 0.029 mL 1.6 mmol 2.0 eq tetrabutylammonium chloride 110 mg 0.40 mmol 0.5 eq then N chlorosuccinimide 320 mg 2.40 mmol 3.0 eq . After 20 minutes no starting material was visible by TLC. After 90 min concentrated NHOH 0.18 mL 3.2 mmol 4.0 eq was added. After 10 minutes 1 mL of NHCl was added and the mixture was extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed twice with dHO once with saturated brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to a clear oil. The residue was purified by flash chromatography to afford the title compound 192 mg 74 as a white solid.

The title compound was prepared as described in Beaus P. Szymoniak J. 2003 68 7133 7136 from benzonitrile 1.0 mL 9.7 mmol to give 270 mg 21 .

To a stirred solution of 1 phenylcyclopropanamine 270 mg 2.03 mmol 1.0 eq in dioxane 5 mL was added trifluoroacetic anhydride 0.310 mL 2.23 mmol 1.1 eq . After 5 min TLC indicated complete conversion of starting material. The mixture was concentrated then coevaporated once with CHCland once with toluene to yield the title compound 453 mg 97 as a flaky white powder.

To stirred chlorosulfonic acid 0.78 mL 11.8 mmol 6.0 eq at 0 C. was added solid 2 2 2 trifluoro N 1 phenylcyclopropyl acetamide 450 mg 1.96 mmol 1.0 eq portionwise keeping the temperature low. After complete addition the mixture was heated to 50 C. After 10 minutes gas evolution ceased and the reaction was allowed to cool. The mixture was added slowly to a beaker of ice being mindful of splattering. The solid that was left in the ice was filtered off. This solid was dried in vacuo and then taken up in THF 4 mL . Concentrated NHOH 0.44 mL 7.85 mmol 4.0 eq was added turning the solution green black. After 2 min TLC indicated complete consumption of the sulfonylchloride intermediate. 2M HCl was added until the color faded then the mixture was extracted three times with EtOAc washed once with saturated NaHCO once with saturated brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to a flaky solid. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography to yield the title compound 235 mg 39 as a white solid.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl cyclopropyl acetamide using General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 methylbenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 nitrobenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 chlorobenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and homobenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 bromobenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 cyanobenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 3 nitrobenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 t butylbenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 nitrobenzylsulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 nitro homobenzyisulfonamide using General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.19 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.58 7.51 m 4H 7.47 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.37 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.47 dd J 9.5 1.7 Hz 1H 5.00 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.93 s 1H 4.36 s 1H 3.91 dd J 14.9 8.5 Hz 1H 3.84 dd J 12.9 8.5 Hz 1H 3.28 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 3.16 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.12 1.98 m 1H 1.87 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.08 s 9H 0.91 d J 6.6 Hz 3H 0.91 d J 6.6 Hz 3H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and methyl 4 chloro 3 sulfamoylbenzoate using General Procedures 2 and 7.

The title compound was synthesized from commercially available 4 aminomethyl phenyl methanesulfonamide and TFAA using General Procedure 1.

The title compound was synthesized from commercially available 4 aminophenyl methanesulfonamide and TFAA using General Procedure 1.

To a stirred solution of 4 bromomethyl benzenesulfonamide 0.50 g in N N dimethylformamide 1 mL was added sodium azide 0.20 g . The suspension was heated to 50 C. for 3 hours at which points the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic phase was washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness to give the title compound as a syrup that solidified on standing.

To a solution of 4 azidomethyl benzenesulfonamide 0.354 g in methanol 10 mL in a round bottom flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer was added 10 Pd C 0.05 g . The flask was evacuated of gases at reduced pressure and charged with hydrogen. This evacuation and charge was repeated three times at which point the suspension was left to stir overnight. At 16 h TLC analysis indicated complete consumption of the starting material. The reaction was diluted with methanol 40 mL celite was added and the mixture was filtered through a fritted glass funnel. The resulting solution was concentrated to dryness. H NMR suggested that the material was sufficiently clean at this stage for further use without purification.

The title compound was synthesized by reaction of 4 aminomethyl benzenesulfonamide with TFAA according to General Procedure 1 with a H NMR spectrum that was complicated by rotamers.

Title compound was prepared from Example 38 and S E 4 S 2 amino N 3 3 trimethylbutanamido N benzylsulfonyl 2 5 dimethylhex 2 enamide using General Procedures 4 and 7.

Title compound was prepared according to General Procedure 8 from Boc protected Example 86 and 4 acetylphenylboronic acid.

Title compound was prepared according to General Procedure 8 from Boc protected Example 86 and 4 methoxyphenylboronic acid.

Title compound was prepared according to General Procedure 8 from Boc protected Example 86 and phenylboronic acid.

Title compound was prepared according to General Procedure 8 from Boc protected Example 86 and E 4 methylstyrylboronic acid.

Title compound was prepared according to General Procedure 9 from Boc protected S E N benzylsulfonyl 4 S 2 S 3 3 bromophenyl 3 methyl 2 methylamino butanamido N 3 3 trimethylbutanamido 2 5 dimethylhex 2 enamide. The two diastereomeric products resulted from diastereomerically impure starting material and were separable by prep scale HPLC.

Title compound was prepared according to Example 92. The two diastereomeric products resulted from diastereomerically impure starting material and were separable by prep scale HPLC.

Title compound was prepared as follows a mixture of Boc protected Example 86 CuI 10 mol 3 4 7 8 tetramethyl 1 10 phenanthroline 20 mol CsCO 2.5 eq and ethylene glycol 90 eq was stirred under Nat 130 C. for 20 h. The resulting mixture was diluted with HO carefully acidified with 1M citric acid and extracted with CHCl 5 . The organics were combined washed with brine 1 dried over MgSO filtered concentrated in vacuo and purified via silica gel column chromatography eluted with AcOH EtOAc hexanes mixtures to afford the cross coupled product which was subsequently deprotected and purified according to General Procedure 7.

Title compound was prepared as follows Tributylphosphine 6 eq was added to a cold 0 C. stirring solution of di tert butyl azodicarboxylate 6 eq in THE After 0.5 h a solution of the Boc protected Example 94 1 eq in THF was added followed by a solution of AcSH 4.5 eq in THF. The pale yellow mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h then at ambient temperature for 23 h. The resulting mixture was concentrated in vacuo dissolved in EtOAc and successively washed with 1M HCl 2 sat d NHCl 1 and brine 1 . The organics were dried over MgSO filtered concentrated in vacuo and purified via silica gel column chromatography eluted with AcOH EtOAc hexanes mixtures to afford the Boc protected thioacetate product HPLC MS M Na 867.47 .

The thioacetate was dissolved in CHCland treated with TFA. After stirring for 1 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The yellow brown residue was dissolved in minimal amount of CHCl cooled to 0 C. and treated with ether to precipitate out the desired aminothioacetate as an off white solid in 10 A yield over two synthetic steps.

Title compound was prepared as follows EtN 4 eq was added to a cold 0 C. stirring solution of MsCl 3.7 eq in CHCl. After 2 min a solution of the Boc protected Example 94 in CHClwas added. The pale yellow mixture was stirred cold for 5 min and then at ambient temperature for 72 h. The resulting mixture was dilute with EtOAc and successively washed with 1M citric acid 1 1M NaHCO 1 and brine 1 . The organics were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the mesylated alcohol HPLC MS M Na 887.42 which was used in the next step without further purification.

The mesylate was dissolved in DMF and treated with NaN 7 eq . The resulting suspension was stirred at ambient temperature for 18 h and then at 60 C. for 5 h. The reaction mix was diluted with HO acidified with 1M HCl and extracted with CHCl 4 . The combined organics were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the azido product HPLC MS M Na 834.44 which was used in the next step without further purification.

The azide was dissolved in THF HO 10 1 and treated with tributylphosphine 3.5 eq . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 21 h and then concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was dissolved in EtOAc and successively washed with 1M HCl 3 1M NaHCO 3 HO 2 and brine 2 . The organics were dried over MgSO filtered concentrated in vacuo and purified via silica gel column chromatography eluted with MeOH CHClmixtures to afford the primary amine as a white solid HPLC MS M H 786.45 .

The amine was dissolved in CHCland treated with TFA. After stirring for 1 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The off white solid residue was dissolved in minimal amount of MeOH cooled to 0 C. and treated with ether to precipitate out the desired diamine product as an off white solid in 6 yield over four synthetic steps.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 an 2 2 2 trifluoro N 2 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 an 2 2 2 trifluoro N 2 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared using from Boc protected Example 56 with phenylboronic acid according to General Procedures 8 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Boc protected Example 68 with 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino phenylboronic acid according to General Procedures 8 and 7

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 4 fluorobenzylsulfonamide according to General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 3 trifluorobenzylsulfonamide according to General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.74 7.64 m 3H 7.61 d J 7.7 Hz 1H 7.60 7.54 m 2H 7.48 t J 7.7 Hz 2H 7.38 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.42 dd J 9.4 1.7 Hz 1H 5.06 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.93 s 1H 4.36 s 1H 3.13 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.07 1.97 m 1H 1.95 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.08 s 9H 0.89 d J 6.5 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 3 trifluoromethoxybenzylsulfonamide according to General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.56 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.48 t J 7.9 Hz 3H 7.43 7.36 m 2H 7.32 d J 9.3 Hz 2H 6.43 dd J 9.4 1.7 Hz 1H 5.06 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.93 s 1H 4.82 s 2H 4.35 s 1H 3.13 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 2.07 1.97 m 1H 1.95 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.08 s 9H 0.90 dd J 6.6 4.3 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 3 4 dichlorobenzylsulfonamide according to General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.56 td J 5.2 4.5 1.9 Hz 4H 7.48 t J 7.7 Hz 2H 7.38 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 7.33 dd J 8.4 2.1 Hz 1H 6.41 dd J 9.5 1.8 Hz 1H 5.06 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.93 s 1H 4.77 s 2H 4.36 s 1H 3.14 s 3H 2.52 s 3H 2.07 1.97 m 1H 1.95 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.49 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.08 s 9H 0.90 dd J 6.6 4.9 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 cyanobenzylsulfonamide according to General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 3 chlorobenzylsulfonamide according to General Procedures 2 and 7.

1H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.58 7.53 m 2H 7.48 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.43 7.34 m 4H 7.32 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 6.42 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 5.06 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.94 s 1H 4.74 s 2H 4.33 s 1H 3.13 s 3H 2.50 s 3H 2.07 1.97 m 1H 1.95 d J 1.4 Hz 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.08 s 9H 0.90 t J 7.2 Hz 6H .

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 ethylbenzylsulfonamide according to General Procedures 2 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 sulfamoyl 2 trifluoromethoxy phenyl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 sulfamoyl 2 3 dimethylphenyl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 sulfamoyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 2 methyl 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 2 fluoro 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 2 ethyl 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

Title compound was prepared from Example 3 and 2 2 2 trifluoro N 2 trifluoromethyl 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide according to General Procedures 2 3 and 7.

The title compound was synthesized from Boc proline and Example 2 according to General Procedures 10 11 2 3 7 and others from Nieman J. A. et al. J. Nat. Prod. 2003 66 183 199. The compound was isolated as two diastereoisomers in an approximately 1 1 ratio.

The title compound was synthesized from Boc homoproline and Example 2 according to General Procedures 10 11 2 3 7 and others from Nieman J. A. et al. J. Nat. Prod. 2003 66 183 199. The compound was isolated as two diastereoisomers in an approximately 2 3 ratio.

The title compound was synthesized from Boc homoproline and Example 7 according to General Procedures 10 11 2 3 7 and others from Nieman J. A. et al. J. Nat. Prod. 2003 66 183 199. The compound was isolated as two diastereoisomers in an approximately 2 3 ratio.

The title compound was prepared by application of general procedures 15 and 7 from from Boc protected Example 77.

The title compound was prepared by application of general procedures 15 and 7 to Boc protected Example 85.

The title compound was prepared by application of general procedures 15 and 7 to Boc protected Example 80.

A suspension of the Example 14 and 10 palladium on carbon 25 mol Pd in glacial acetic acid was stirred under a Hatmosphere 1 atm at ambient temperature. After 142 h the reaction suspension was passed through a bed of celite rinsed with MeOH 5 and concentrated in vacuo. The residual light brown crude film was dissolved and purified on the preparative HPLC 30 70 MeCN HO with 0.1 TFA and lyophilized to afford one diastereomer of the reduced product as a pale yellow solid in 15 yield

Composition produced using the SPDP linkage method described below. Note R is distinct from R as Rincludes R S.

Composition produced using the SMCC linkage method described below. Note R is distinct from R as Rincludes R S.

Composition produced using the SPDP linkage method described below. Note R is distinct from R as Rincludes R S.

Composition produced using the SMCC linkage method described below. Note R is distinct from R as Rincludes R S.

 Compound A SPDP mAb produced using the Compound A synthesis method above and the SPDP linkage method described below.

 Compound B SPDP mAb produced using the Compound B synthesis method above and the SPDP linkage method described below.

 Compound C SPDP mAb produced using the Compound C synthesis method above and the SPDP linkage method described below.

 Compound B SMCC mAb produced using the Compound B synthesis method above and the SMCC linkage method described below.

 Compound A SMCC mAb produced using the Compound A synthesis method above and the SMCC linkage method described below.

 Compound C SMCC mAb produced using the Compound C synthesis method above and the SMCC linkage method described below.

To a vigorously stirred solution of bromobenzene 4.70 g 30.0 mmol and 3 3 dimethylacrylic acid 1.00 g 10.0 mmol in 20 mL CHClcooled to 10 C. in an NHCl ice bath solid AlClwas added portion wise keeping the internal temperature below 5 C. The solution turned yellow then brown after addition. After one hour analysis by LC and TLC indicated complete consumption of the limiting reagent. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of 1 M citric acid causing the brown color to fade to yellow. The resulting sloppy suspension was extracted four times with 20 mL EtO the combined organics washed with NaCl dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo with heating to 45 C. to remove solvent and residual bromobenzene. The resulting oil solidified slowly. Recrystallization of the crude solid in hexanes afforded the title compound 1.29 g 50 as clusters of white prisms.

The title compound was prepared in the same manner as 3 methyl 3 phenylbutanoic acid in Nieman J. A. et al. 2003 66 183 199 using bromobenzene in place of benzene as the solvent and substituting the acid base workup with a simple extraction of the reaction mixture from 1 M citric acid and three successive recrystallizations from hexanes. From a crude product enriched in the desired meta isomer as a 2 1 mixture the title compound could be obtained as white stubby needles in greater than 95 purity.

The title compound was synthesized from Example 130 according to the sequence of procedures described by Nieman et al. for the synthesis of S methyl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino 3 methyl 3 phenylbutanoate.

To a stirred solution of Example 68 157 mg 0.405 mmol in pentaethylene glycol 1.5 mL were added CsCO 330 mg 1.01 mmol 3 4 7 8 tetramethyl 1 10 phenanthroline 57 mg 0.24 mmol and CuI 23 mg 0.12 mmol . Nitrogen was blown into the flask then it was sealed and heated to 130 C. the solution quickly turning red to brown to black. After 40 h the reaction looked to be nearly complete by HPLC analysis. Thus the mixture was allowed to cool to ambient temperature diluted with HO and transferred to a larger Erlenmeyer with a stir bar. This mixture was carefully acidified to pH 3 with 1 M citric acid paying attention not to allow the foamy mixture to spill over. The mixture was then extracted five times with CHCl the combined organic extracts washed with NaCl dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to yield about 300 mg of crude oil. Purification by flash chromatography 1 10 MeOH 2 AcOH EtOAc yielded the title compound 66 mg 30 as a clear film which existed as a set of N Boc rotamers an an approximate 2 1 ratio.

The title compound was prepared according to the above method from Example 68 132 mg 0.341 mmol CsCO 278 mg 0.853 mmol 3 4 7 8 tetramethyl 1 10 phenanthroline 24 mg 0.10 mmol and CuI 10 mg 0.051 mmol . Flash chromatography 1 10 MeOH 2 AcOH EtOAc gave the title compound 66 mg 38 as a clear oil in an approximate 2 1 ratio of N Boc rotamers.

The precursor to the title compound S 3 3 bromophenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino 3 methylbutanoic acid was prepared from Example 131 by following the procedures in Neiman et al.

Thus following the procedures above from S 3 3 bromophenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino 3 methylbutanoic acid 166 mg 0.43 mmol CsCO 330 mg 1.01 mmol 3 4 7 8 tetramethyl 1 10 phenanthroline 31 mg 0.13 mmol and CuI 12.3 0.060 mmol in 1.5 mL pentaethylene glycol heated to 130 C. for two days the title compound 73 mg 31 was obtained as a clear oil after flash chromatography 1 10 MeOH 2 AcOH EtOAc in an approximate 2 1 ratio of N Boc rotamers.

 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino 3 4 14 hydroxy 3 6 9 12 tetraoxatetradecyl oxy phenyl 3 methylbutanoic acid 65 mg 0.120 mmol was coupled to S E ethyl 4 S 2 amino N 3 3 trimethylbutanamido 2 5 dimethylhex 2 enoate with HATU and DIPEA following the same stoichiometry and procedure as described in the general coupling procedures in Nieman et al. to give an intermediate free alcohol after purification by flash chromatography 1 10 MeOH 2 AcOH EtOAc . Next to triphenylphosphine 40 mg 0.15 mmol in 0.75 mL THF under Nat 0 C. di tert butylazodicarboxylate 35 mg 0.15 mmol was added in one portion. After 35 minutes a white precipitate crashed out and the reaction became difficult to stir. To this suspension a solution of the intermediate alcohol 42 mg 0.050 mmol in 0.75 mL THF was added diluting the precipitate enough to restore stirring. Five minutes later thioacetic acid 5.7 mg 0.075 mmol in 0.05 mL THF was added causing all yellow color to fade from the mixture. After 30 min the reaction was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. The precipitate disappeared after another 15 min and analysis by TLC and LCMS showed nearly complete conversion. After another 40 minutes the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo then subjected directly to flash chromatography 40 100 EtOAc Hex then to 10 MeOH EtOAc to yield the title compound 26 mg 57 as a clear film.

The title compound was prepared from S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino 3 4 2 2 2 2 hydroxyethoxy ethoxy ethoxy ethoxy phenyl 3 methylbutanoic acid 66 mg 0.065 mmol following the same procedure described above to give 32 mg 57 as a clear film after flash chromatography 20 100 EtOAc Hex 

The title compound was prepared from S 3 3 14 hydroxy 3 6 9 12 tetraoxatetradecyl oxy phenyl 3 methyl 2 methylamino butanoic acid 73 mg 0.080 mmol following the same procedure described above to give 66 mg 47 as a clear film after flash chromatography 20 100 EtOAc Hex .

The title compound was prepared by saponification then TFA promoted Boc removal according to the exact methods described in Nieman et al. from 6S 9S 2S E ethyl 9 tert butyl 12 isopropyl 2 2 5 11 14 pentamethyl 4 7 10 trioxo 6 2 4 16 oxo 3 6 9 12 tetraoxa 15 thiaheptadecyl oxy phenyl propan 2 yl 3 oxa 5 8 11 triazapentadec 13 en 15 oate 26 mg 0.029 mmol to afford the title compound 16 mg 90 as a clear glass after complete removal of excess TFA.

The title compound was prepared by saponification then TFA promoted Boc removal according to the exact methods described in Nieman et al. from 6S 9S 12S E ethyl 9 tert butyl 12 isopropyl 2 2 5 11 14 pentamethyl 4 7 10 trioxo 6 2 4 13 oxo 3 6 9 trioxa 12 thiatetradecyl oxy phenyl propan 2 yl 3 oxa 5 8 11 triazapentadec 13 en 15 oate 32 mg 0.037 mmol to afford the title compound 29 mg 86 as a clear glass after complete removal of excess TFA.

The title compound was prepared by saponification then TFA promoted Boc removal according to the exact methods described in Nieman et al. from 6S 9S 12S E ethyl 9 tert butyl 12 isopropyl 2 2 5 11 14 pentamethyl 4 7 10 trioxo 6 2 3 16 oxo 3 6 9 12 tetraoxa 15 thiaheptadecyl oxy phenyl propan 2 yl 3 oxa 5 8 11 triazapentadec 13 en 15 oate 56 mg 0.029 mmol to afford the title compound 43 mg 82 as an off white foam after complete removal of excess TFA.

 mAb SPDP Compound 142 produced using the Compound 142 synthesis method above and the SPDP linkage method described below.

 mAb SPDP Compound 140 produced using the Compound 140 synthesis method above and the SPDP linkage method described below.

 mAb SPDP Compound 144 produced using the Compound 144 synthesis method above and the SPDP linkage method described below.

 mAb SMCC Compound 140 produced using the Compound 140 synthesis method above and the SMCC linkage method described below.

 mAb SMCC Compound 142 produced using the Compound 142 synthesis method above and the SMCC linkage method described below.

 mAb SMCC Compound 144 produced using the Compound 144 synthesis method above and the SMCC linkage method described below.

The title compound was synthesized from S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino 3 cyclohexyl 3 methylbutanoic acid as prepared by Zask et al. J. Med. Chem. 2004 47 19 4774 4786 and S E 4 S 2 amino N 3 3 trimethylbutanamido N benzylsulfonyl 2 5 dimethylhex 2 enamide prepared using General Procedures 10 11 3 and 2 by application of General Procedures 4 and 7.

 mAb MCvcPABC Compound 85 produced using Example compound 120 above and the general MCvcPABC conjugation method described below.

 mAb MCvcPABC Compound 77 produced using Example compound 119 above and the general MCvcPABC conjugation method described below.

 mAb MCvcPABC Compound 80 produced using Example compound 121 above and the MCvcPABC conjugation method described below.

 mAb MCvcPABC Compound 58 produced using Example compound 158 MCvcPABC58 below and the MCvcPABC conjugation method described below.

 mAb MCvcPABC Compound 41 produced using Example compound 122 above and the MCvcPABC conjugation method described below.

 mAb MCvcPABC Compound 63 produced using Example compound 159 MCvcPABC830 below and the MCvcPABC conjugation method described below.

The title compound was prepared by application of General Procedure 15 and 7 to Boc protected Example 58.

The title compound was prepared by application of General Procedures 15 and 7 to Boc protected Example 63.

It is understood to those skilled in the art that it may be possible to carry out the chemical conversions shown in the schemes above with modifications of one or more parameters. As examples alternate non nucleophilic solvents may be suitable for the chemistry such as THF DMF Toluene etc. Reaction temperatures may be varied. Alternate reagents may be suitable to act as dehydrating or acid activating agents which are normally used in amide formation reactions such as pentafluorophenyl esters NHS esters EDAC HBTU HOBT etc.

The following representative compounds may be prepared according to the foregoing procedures. As recognized by the artisan of reasonable skill the following compounds are synthetically accessible using the disclosure of WO 2004 026293 to achieve the precursor reactant and applying General Procedures with the appropriate sulfonamide.

Tables 1 8 summarize the cytotoxic activity of the subject compounds on cell lines. summarizes the data for compounds A B C D and E when tested using the Human mammary carcinoma cell line HCC1954 or Human T cell leukemia cell line Jurkat. show the cytotoxicity data plots for individual compounds A E. Tables 2 6 summarize the results of additional cytotoxicity assays.

Cell lines used Human T cell leukemia cell line Jurkat ATCC TIB 152 HCC1954 ATCC CRL. 2338 Human Pancreatic cells lines AsPC 1 ATCC CRL 1682 BxPC 3 ATCC CRL.1687 HPAF II ATCC CRL.1997 MiaPaCa2 ATCC CRL.1420 PANC 1 ATCC CRL.1469 Capan 1 ATCC HTB 79 Capan 2 ATCC HTB 80 and the Human gastric carcinoma cell line NCI N87 ATCC CRL. 5822 AML 193 ATCC CRL.9589 CCRF CEM ATCC CCL 119 DU145 ATCC HTB 81 PC 3 ATCC CRL.1435 A 431 ATCC CRL.1555 HT 29 ATCC HTB 38 A 172 ATCC CRL.1620 NCI H358 ATCC CRL.5807 A549 ATCC CCL 185 Colo 205 ATCC CCL 222 MDA MB 231 ATCC HTB 26 OVCAR 3 ATCC HTB 161 OV 90 ATCC CRL.11732 OE19 Sigma 96071721 RT112 84 Sigma 85061106 .

On the day prior to adding compounds HCC1954 AsPC 1 BxPC 3 HPAF 11 MiaPaCa2 PANC 1 Capan 1 Capan 2 and NCI N87 cells were added to opaque walled 96 well tissue culture treated microtiter plates using complete growth medium at a density of 2500 cells 100 microliter uL of medium. These adherant cell lines cells were incubated for one night at 37 C. 5 COto allow the cells to attach to the microtiter plate surface. On the day that compounds were added Jurkat cells are added to separate 96 well microtiter plates at 2500 cells 100 uL using the same growth medium as HCC1954. Compound were first serially diluted using dimethyl sulfoxide and then the prepared dilutions are added to complete growth medium at five times the final concentration compounds were then titrated 1 3 eight steps. A control with no compound growth medium alone was included on each microtiter plate in sextuplicate. The prepared compounds titrations were added twenty five uL well in triplicate. The cells and compound titrations were incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor three nights. After the incubation cell viability is measured using CellTiter Glo reagent by adding thirty uL of prepared CellTiter Glo to each assay well. The assay is incubated for at least twenty minutes in the dark prior to measuring emitted luminescence using a microplate luminometer 500 ms integration time . The collected relative luminescence units RLU are converted to cytotoxicity using the Growth medium alone control mentioned above Cytotoxicity 1 Well RLU average medium alone control RLU .

GraphPad Prism was used for generation of ECvalues using three parameter non linear regression curve fitting.

As recognized by the artisan of reasonable skill the particular linker used for conjugate formation will depend upon the reactive group of the reactant compound being used for bond formation. As an example and within the scope of the present invention compounds having thiol moiety may be used for conjugate formation. In some of the present examples the commercially available cleavable linker sulfosuccinimidyl 6 3 2 pyridyldithio propionamido hexanoate sulfo LC SPDP Thermo Pierce Cat 21650 and Non cleavable linker succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC Thermo Pierce Cat 22360 were utilized for antibody drug conjugation reactions. The coupling procedure is performed in two major steps 1 incorporation of the linkers onto the antibody via reaction with antibody primary amine groups Lysine residues and the N hydroxysuccinimide NHS ester moiety of the linkers and 2 reaction of the incorporated maleimide group SMCC or 2 pyridyldithio group LC SPDP with thiol containing compounds.

Antibody Herceptin was diluted into either Potassium Phosphate pH 8 sulfo LC SPDP or D PBS Invitrogen pH 7.4 SMCC to 5 mg mL. To the diluted antibody freshly dissolved linker was added using ultra pure water for sulfo LC SPDP or anhydrous N N Dimethylacetamide DMA for SMCC. 10 14 fold molar excesses of SMCC antibody or sulfo LC SPDP antibody result in incorporation of 5 7 linkers antibody. The linker antibody activation reaction was incubated at 28 C. for 2 hours. Following the incubation the un reacted linker was removed from each antibody sample using 40 kda Zeba Size exclusion chromatography desalting columns Thermo Pierce Cat 87771 or 87772 depending on the scale . During the same chromatography step the buffer was exchanged in preparation for the next reaction either Phosphate Buffer EDTA pH 6.5 LC SPDP or Citrate buffer EDTA pH 5 SMCC . The purified preparations were then assayed for total protein content versus an antibody standard curve using the microplate adapted BCA assay Thermo Pierce Cat 23225 . To estimate the extent of linker incorporation a small scale reaction with excess 10 fold compared to protein concentration Cysteine was performed. Following a 10 minute incubation the un reacted Cysteine was detected using 5 5 Dithio bis 2 nitrobenzoic acid Ellman s reagent Thermo Pierce Cat 22582 . By interpolating the concentration from a Cysteine standard curve the linker concentration was determined by subtracting the determined value from the known concentration of Cysteine used.

In the second step of the coupling reaction the activated antibody was utilized by first diluting the preparation to 2 mg mL using either Phosphate Buffer EDTA pH 6.5 LC SPDP or Citrate buffer EDTA pH 5 SMCC . Prior to use the thiol containing n acyl sulfonamide compounds or maytansinoid DM1 were reduced using TCEP agarose beads to ensure the thiol group was available to react to the incorporated linkers. In brief compounds were diluted to 5 mM using Phosphate Buffer EDTA pH 6.5. In instances where aqueous solubility was an issue a small volume of 37 HCl 1 300 was added and this was sufficient to solubilize the compounds at 5 mM. TCEP agarose beads Thermo Pierce Cat 77712 were equilibrated with Phosphate Buffer EDTA 10 DMA prior to use. The compound dilutions were rotated with TCEP agarose beads for at least 0.5 hours or up to 3 hours. The reduced compounds were collected by centrifugation over a filter which excluded the TCEP agarose. The extent of reduction and thiol concentration was measured using Ellman s reagent compared to a Cysteine standard curve . The reduced thiol containing compounds were then added to the activated antibody samples at a molar excess of 2 fold compared to the previously determined linker concentrations. In order to monitor the coupling reaction effectiveness an overnight conjugation control was prepared by diluting each compound into Phosphate Buffer EDTA pH 6.5 or Citrate buffer EDTA pH 5 at the same dilution factor that was used in the conjugation reaction. The remaining compound stocks were frozen at 80 C. The reactions and overnight controls were incubated at ambient temperature overnight. The next morning the frozen compound stocks were thawed and another control was prepared for each compound exactly like the overnight control this is the fresh control. A small volume of each conjugation reaction was compared to the overnight and fresh compound controls using Ellman s reagent. Non reacted compound was purified away from the ADCs using 40 kda Zeba Size exclusion desalting columns during the same step the buffer was exchanged to D PBS pH7.4 Invitrogen .

The purified ADCs were then analysed for total protein content BCA assay Pierce microBCA protocol relative affinity for antigen binding equilibrium native binding and selective cytotoxic killing of HER2 positive cells HCC1954 compared HER2 negative cells Jurkat .

Tables 9 and 10 summarize the cytotoxic activity of ADCs comprising compounds A B or C when tested using the Human mammary carcinoma cell line HCC1954 or Human T cell leukemia cell line Jurkat. show cytotoxicity data plots for individual compositions as indicated.

On the day prior to adding test articles HCC1954 cells were added to opaque walled 96 well tissue culture treated microtiter plates using complete growth medium at a density of 2500 cells 100 microliter uL of medium. The HCC1954 cells were incubated for one night at 37 C. 5 COto allow the cells to attach to the microtiter plate surface. On the day that test articles were added Jurkat cells are added to separate 96 well microtiter plates at 2500 cells 100 uL using the same growth medium as HCC1954. To compare the ADC killing to that obtained from the free compounds the n acyl sulfonamide compounds were first serially diluted using dimethyl sulfoxide or DMA and then the prepared dilutions are added to complete growth medium at five times the final concentration compounds were then titrated 1 3 eight steps. To test the ADCs they were diluted directly in growth medium at five times the final concentration ADCs were then titrated 1 3 eight steps. A control with no test article present growth medium alone was included on each microtiter plate in sextuplicate. The prepared compound ADC titrations were added twenty five uL well in triplicate to both the HCC1954 cells and Jurkat cells. The cells and titrations were incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor three nights. After the incubation cell viability was measured using CellTiter Glo reagent by adding thirty uL of prepared CellTiter Glo to each assay well. The assay was incubated for at least twenty minutes in the dark prior to measuring emitted luminescence using a microplate luminometer 500 ms integration time . The collected relative luminescence units RLU were converted to cytotoxicity using the Growth medium alone control mentioned above Cytotoxicity 1 Well RLU average medium alone control RLU .

The data indicate that the subject compounds are active cytotoxins on both cell lines used. The LC SPDP linked compound conjugates demonstrated potent killing of HER2 positive HCC1954 cells. Jurkat cell killing was observed at high doses of ADC due to the presence of mercaptoethanol in cell culture medium which resulted in the release of free compound data not shown .

Electrospary ionization time of flight EsiToF mass spectrometer instrument QStar XL Hybrid quadrupole TOF LC MSMS AB Sciex was used to determine molecular weight of the ADC s and to evaluate the drug to antibody ratio DAR . The EsiToF MS instrument was equipped with electrospray ionization turbo spray source. Data acquisition was performed in the positive ion mode and the sample s total ion current was acquired over the mass range 2000 m z to 4000 m z using Analyst QS 1.1 software. The ion source was operated with an ion spray needle voltage of 5.2 KV and a nebulization Gas 1 at 25 arbitrary units curtain gas of 30 arbitrary units declustering potential of 150 V and at temperature of 150 C. The. The ADC test sample solutions was introduced at 5 uL min into the ion source by direct infusion via a fused silica capillary with the help of syringe and syringe pump.

All ADC sample were deglycosylated using EndoS IgGZERO endoglycosidase and buffer exchanged with water prior to EsiToF MS analysis. Briefly the original ADC sample was run through a 100K MWCO Amicon concentrator for buffer exchange in sodium phosphate buffer. The buffer exchanged sample was then treated with IgGZERO 1 unit 1 ug of antibody in sodium phosphate cleavage buffer containing 150 mM NaCl and incubated for 30 minutes at 37 C. The resulting deglycosylated ADC was again buffer exchanged with water using a 100K MWCO Amicon concentrator and diluted with 0.1 formic acid in acetonitrile water 50 50 v v to a concentration of 3.0 g L prior to analysis.

To a solution of antibody 1 10 mg mL in 25 mM sodium borate 25 mM sodium chloride 1 mM DTPA pH 8.0 was added TCEP from a freshly prepared stock 1 10 mM in the same buffer 2.0 3.0 molar equivalents . The solution was mixed thoroughly and incubated at 37 C. for two hours before cooling on ice. In some instances the reduced antibody solution was further diluted with either ice cold phosphate buffered saline containing 1 mM DTPA final protein concentration 2.0 mg mL or ice cold 25 mM sodium borate 25 mM sodium chloride 1 mM DTPA pH 8.0 to obtain a solution with a final protein concentration of between 1 and 4 mg mL. To the reduced protein solution stored on ice was added the maleimide functionalized toxin 10 12 molar equivalents from a 10 mM dmso stock solution. The conjugation reaction was immediately mixed thoroughly by inversion and conjugation was allowed to proceed on ice for a period of approximately 1 hour before purification by passage over Zeba Spin Desalting Columns 40 KDa MWCO Peirce pre equilibrated with phosphate buffered saline or 10 mM sodium citrate 150 mM sodium chloride pH 5.5. The eluate was pooled filter sterilized Steriflip Millipore and stored at 4 C.

The purified ADCs were analyzed for total protein content bicinchonic acid assay Pierce microBCA protocol catalogue 23225 . The ADC product was characterized by reducing and non reducing PAGE HPLC HIC SEC and RP UPLC MS. The average DAR and drug distribution were derived from interpretation of HIC and LC MS data with reference to non reducing PAGE. Average DAR estimates were normally in the range of 3.5 4.5. Relative affinity of ADCs for antigen binding equilibrium native binding was performed as described above below . The selective cytotoxicity of the antibody drug conjugates was assessed by testing for killing of both antigen positive and antigen negative cell lines.

Selective killing of an antigen positive cell line including HCC1954 NCI N87 HPAF II and BxPC 3 cell lines over antigen negative Jurkat cells was demonstrated for each conjugate prepared. Cytotoxicity of example ADCs on several antigen positive cell lines is summarized in the identified Figures and Tables 9 13. In addition the conjugates indicated by in Table 11 were tested and showed potent cell kill activity against a human breast cancer cell line data not shown . Briefly cells were obtained from the ATCC and cultured as described in the product sheet provided. Cells were seeded at 25000 cells mL 2500 cells well in Costar 3904 black walled flat bottomed 96 well plates. Adherent cell lines cells were incubated for one night at 37 C. in a 5 COatmosphere to allow the cells to attach to the microtitre plate surface while suspension Jurkat cells were plated immediately before use. ADCs were diluted directly in the appropriate cell growth medium at five times the desired final concentration. These ADCs were then titrated normally 1 3 over eight steps. A control with no test article present growth medium alone was included on each microtiter plate in sextuplicate. The prepared ADC titrations were added 25 uL well in triplicate to each cell line assayed. The cells and titrations were incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor three nights Jurkat and five nights all other cell lines . After the incubation cell viability was measured using CellTiter Glo reagent by adding thirty uL of prepared CellTiter Glo to each assay well. The mixtures were incubated for at least twenty minutes in the dark prior to measuring emitted luminescence using a microplate luminometer 500 ms integration time . The collected relative luminescence units RLU were converted to cytotoxicity using the growth medium alone control mentioned above Cytotoxicity 1 Well RLU average medium alone control RLU . Data Cytotoxicity vs. Concentration of ADC log 10 nM were plotted and were analyzed by non linear regression methods using GraphPad Prism software v. 5.02 to obtain ECestimates.

The average degree of conjugation of toxin linker to antibody was assessed by hydrophobic interaction chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. These techniques are described in Antibody Drug Conjugates Methods in Molecular Biology vol. 1045 2013. pp 275 284. L. Ducry Ed. and Asish B. Chakraborty Scott J. Berger and John C. Gebler Characterization of an IgG1 Monoclonal Antibody and related Sub structures by LC ESI TOF MS Application note Waters Corporation. March 2007. 720002107EN.

Antibody drug conjugates were subjected to hydrophobic interaction chromatography HIC on a TSKgeI Butyl NPR column Tosoh Bioscience 4.6 mm 35 mm i.d. 2.5 m particle size connected to an Agilent 1100 series HPLC. Samples were injected 5 uL at or above 4 mg mL. Where necessary ADCs were concentrated prior to injection using PALL Nanosep Omega centrifugal concentration devices part OD010C34 . A linear gradient elution was employed starting at 95 mobile phase A 5 mobile phase B transitioning to 5 mobile phase A 95 mobile phase B over a period of 12 minutes mobile phase A 1.5M ammonium sulfate 25 mM sodium phosphate at pH 6.95 and mobile phase B 25 isopropanol 75 25 mM sodium phosphate at pH 6.95 . Injection of unmodified antibody provided a means of identifying the peak with DAR 0. Antibodies were detected on the basis of absorbance at 280 nm.

Reversed phase ultra performance liquid chromatography tandem ESI QToF mass spectrometry UPLC ESI QToF MS was used to characterize antibody drug conjugates for extent of drug conjugation following reduction with dithiothreitol. The characterization was performed using Acquity UPLC H class Bio coupled to a Quatro Premier QToF mass spectrometer with an electrospray ion source WATERS Corporation . UPLC analysis of the reduced ADC sample was performed at 70 C. with a PolymerX 5u PR 1 100 A 50 2.0 mm column Phenomenex Inc. and with a mobile phase composed of Solvent A Acetonitrile Water Trifluoroacetic acid Formic acid 10 90 0.1 0.1 v v and Solvent B Acetonitrile Formic acid 100 0.1 v v . Components of the reduced ADC sample were eluted with a linear gradient starting at Solvent A Solvent B 80 20 v v and a flow rate of 0.3 ml min to Solvent A Solvent B 40 60 v v over 25 min and then to Solvent A Solvent B 10 90 v v over 2 minutes before equilibrating back to initial conditions. The total run time was 30 minutes. The ESI Tof MS total ion current TIC data was acquired over 500 4500 m z range using MassLynx data acquisition software Waters Corporation . Sample component mass data was acquired in the positive ion V mode and the ESI source was operated at source temperature 150 C. desolvation temperature 350 C. desolvation gas 800 L hr sample cone voltage 60 V capillary voltage 3.0 kV desolvation gas nitrogen and collision gas argon. The summed TIC mass spectra for each peak was deconvoluted by the MaxEnt1 algorithm to generate the neutral mass data of the peak component.

Reduction of the disulfide bonds in the antibody of the ADC 1 g L solution to generate the light and heavy chains was performed using 20 mM DTT at 60 C. for 20 minutes. An injection volume of 5 10 L of the reduced ADC sample was employed for UPLC ESI ToF MS analysis.

Test articles were administered IV. Dosage was as indicated in each being dosed near maximum tolerated dosage. One injection of test article was delivered every seven days for four repeats injections compound D or one injection every seven days for three repeats injections compound 23 . Vehicle 6.3 Trehalose 0.05 Tween20 20 mM Citrate Buffer pH5.0 4 C.

Thirty six 66 female athymic nude mice purchased from Harlan Laboratories at 7 8 weeks of age were inoculated subcutaneously in the back with 5 10PC 3 tumour cells on experimental day 0. Tumours were measured every Monday Wednesday and Friday. Once tumors reach 150 200 mmin size experimental day 27 to 34 animals were assigned to one of 4 treatment groups by counterbalancing the average tumor size across groups. Animals were treated with their respective compound as indicated and tumour measures continued every Monday Wednesday and Friday. Data shows animal results to experimental day 54 or until tumours reached 800 mmin size.

Cells were started from a frozen vial of lab stock which were frozen down from ATCC original vial tested for negative and kept in lab liquid nitrogen tanks. Cell cultures with passage 3 to 10 and a confluence of 80 90 were harvested for in vivo studies. Cells were grown in Ham s F12 medium supplemented with 2 mM L glutamine and 10 FBS at 37 C. in 5 COenvironment. Cells were sub cultured once a week with split ratio 1 3 to 1 6 and expanded. The medium was renewed once a week.

Cells were rinsed briefly one time with 2 mL of fresh Trypsin EDTA solution 0.25 trypsin with EDTA 4Na then the extra trypsin EDTA was aspirated. Then 1.5 mL of Trysin EDTA was added the flask was laid horizontally to ensure the cells were covered by trypsin EDTA. The cells were then incubated at 37 C. for a few minutes. The cells were observed under an inverted microscope to ensure the cell layer was dispersed then fresh medium was added and 50 L of cell suspension was sampled and mixed with trypan blue 1 1 and the cells were counted and cell viability assessed using the Cellometer Auto T4. The cells were centrifuged at 1 000 rpm for 7 min and the supernatant aspirated. The cells were then re suspend in growth medium to the appropriate concentration for inoculation. Injection volume was 100 L per animal.

On Day 0 5.0 10tumour cells was implanted subcutaneously into the back of mice in a volume of 100 L using a 27 28 gauge needle under Isoflurane anesthesia.

Animals were housed in ventilated cages 2 to 5 animals per cage in a 12 hour light dark cycle. Animals received sterile food and water ad libitum and housing and use of animals was performed in accordance with Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines. Animals were handled aseptically and cages changed once every 10 14 days.

Mice were monitored every Monday Wednesday and Friday for tumour development. Dimensions of established tumours was measured with calipers. Tumour volumes were calculated according to the equation L W 2 with the length mm being the longer axis of the tumour. Animals were also weighed at the time of tumour measurement. Tumours were allowed to grow to a maximum of 800 mm.

The methodology used was reviewed and approved by the University of British Columbia Animal Care Committee ACC prior to conducting the studies to ensure studies were planned in accordance with the Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines. During the study the care housing and use of animals was performed in accordance with the Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines.

Tumour volumes of each group across the treatment days were plotted. Growth curves were cutoff for each group at the time point when the first animal reached the tumour size experimental endpoint 800 mm3 or at the last day of the study. Any animal that was withdrawn from the study prior to the group growth curve cutoff was removed entirely from the study.

Any animal with ulcerating tumours necessitating euthanasia of the animal with tumour volume of 700 mmor smaller were removed from the study and did not contribute to the data analysis except for Days to Recurrence if the final tumour volume was 2.0 fold higher than on the treatment day .

Test articles were administered IV one treatment only. T refers to Trastuzumab. Dosage was as indicated in . Vehicle 20 mM Sodium Citrate 6.3 Trehalose 0.02 Tween 20 pH 5 4 C.

Seventy six 76 female NOD SCID Gamma mice NSG purchased from The Jackson Laboratory JAX Mice at 7 8 weeks of age were inoculated subcutaneously in the lower back with 5 10NCI N87 tumour cells in matrigel on experimental day 0. Tumours were measured every Monday Wednesday and Friday. Once tumors reach 150 200 mmin size experimental day 27 animals were assigned to one of 10 treatment groups by counterbalancing the average tumor size across groups. Animals were treated with their respective compound as indicated and tumour measures continued every Monday Wednesday and Friday. Data shows animal results to experimental day 50 or until tumours reached 800 mmin size.

NCI N87 human gastric carcinoma cells were derived from a liver metastasis of a well differentiated carcinoma of the stomach taken prior to cytotoxic therapy. The tumor was passaged as a xenograft in athymic nude mice for three passages before the cell line was established. NCI N87 cells were obtained under MTA from the ATCC Cat CRL 5822 in 2013 and were tested negative at RADIL for and mouse pathogens. RADIL certificate 10556 2013 

Cells were started from a frozen vial of lab stock which was frozen down from ATCC original vial and kept in lab liquid nitrogen tanks. Cell cultures with passage 3 to 10 and a confluence of 80 90 were harvested for in vivo studies. NCI N87 cells were grown in RPMI 1640 medium with 1.0 mM L glutamine and 10 FBS at 37 C. in 5 CO2 environment. Cells were subcultured once or twice a week with the split ratio 1 3 or 1 4 and expanded. The medium was renewed once a week. Cell were frozen with 5 DMSO.

Cells were rinsed briefly one time with Hanks Balanced Salt Solution without Ca Mg. Fresh Trypsin EDTA solution 0.25 trypsin with EDTA 4Na was added and the flask laid horizontally to ensure the cells were covered by trypsin EDA and then the extra trypsin EDTA was aspirated. The cells were incubated at 37 C. for a few minutes. Cells were observed under an inverted microscope until cell layer is dispersed fresh medium is then added. Then 50 L of cell suspension was collected and mix with trypan blue 1 1 and the cells counted and assessed for viability on a haemocytometer. Viability should be 90 . The cells were centrifuged at 125 RCF 1000 rpm for 7 min and the supernatant aspirated off. The cells were resuspended in cold growth medium to 2 times the desired final concentration 100 10 mL . The suspension was mixed on ice with matrigel 1 1 . The resulting cell suspensions 50 10cells mL was used to deliver 5 10cells in an injection volume of 100 L per animal. All equipment coming into contact with matrigel needles syringes pipette tips were chilled prior to injection.

Prior to inoculation approximately 2 2 cm area was shaved in the lower back region of each mouse and cleaned with alcohol. On Day 0 5.0 10tumour cells were implanted subcutaneously into the back of mice in a volume of 100 L using a 27 28 gauge needle under Isoflurane anesthesia.

Animals were housed in ventilated cages 2 to 5 animals per cage in a 12 hour light dark cycle. Animals received sterile food and water ad libitum and housing and use of animals was performed in accordance with Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines. Animals were handled aseptically and cages changed once every 10 14 days.

Mice were monitored every Monday Wednesday and Friday for tumour development. Dimensions of established tumours was measured with calipers. Tumour volumes were calculated according to the equation L W 2 with the length mm being the longer axis of the tumour. Animals were also weighed at the time of tumour measurement. Tumours were allowed to grow to a maximum of 800 mm.

The methodology used was reviewed and approved by the University of British Columbia Animal Care Committee ACC prior to conducting the studies to ensure studies were planned in accordance with the Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines. During the study the care housing and use of animals was performed in accordance with the Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines.

Tumour volumes of each group across the treatment days were plotted. Growth curves were cutoff for each group at the time point when the first animal reached the tumour size experimental endpoint 800 mm3 or at the last day of the study. Any animal that was withdrawn from the study prior to the group growth curve cutoff was removed entirely from the study.

Any animal with ulcerating tumours necessitating euthanasia of the animal with tumour volume of 700 mmor smaller were removed from the study and did not contribute to the data analysis except for Days to Recurrence if the final tumour volume was 2.0 fold higher than on the treatment day .

Test articles were administered IV with one administration. Dosages were as indicated in . T refers to Trastuzumab. Vehicle 20 mM Sodium Citrate 6.3 Trehalose 0.02 Tween 20 pH 5 4 C.

Twenty four 24 female NOD SCID Gamma mice NSG purchased from The Jackson Laboratory JAX Mice at 7 8 weeks of age were inoculated subcutaneously in the lower back with 5 10NCI N87 tumour cells in matrigel on experimental day 0. Tumours were measured every Monday Wednesday and Friday. Once tumors reach 150 200 mmin size experimental day 27 animals were assigned to one of 3 treatment groups by counterbalancing the average tumor size across groups. Animals were treated with their respective compound as outlined and tumour measures continued every Monday Wednesday and Friday. Data shows animal results to experimental day 88 or until tumours reached 800 mmin size.

NCI N87 human gastric carcinoma cells were derived from a liver metastasis of a well differentiated carcinoma of the stomach taken prior to cytotoxic therapy. The tumor was passaged as a xenograft in athymic nude mice for three passages before the cell line was established. NCI N87 cells were obtained under MTA from the ATCC Cat CRL 5822 in 2013 and were tested negative at RADIL for and mouse pathogens. RADIL certificate 10556 2013 

Cells were started from a frozen vial of lab stock which was frozen down from ATCC original vial and kept in lab liquid nitrogen tanks. Cell cultures with passage 3 to 10 and a confluence of 80 90 were harvested for in vivo studies. NCI N87 cells were grown in RPMI 1640 medium with 1.0 mM L glutamine and 10 FBS at 37 C. in 5 CO2 environment. Cells were subcultured once or twice a week with the split ratio 1 3 or 1 4 and expanded. The medium was renewed once a week. Cell were frozen with 5 DMSO.

Cells were rinsed briefly one time with Hanks Balanced Salt Solution without Ca Mg. Fresh Trypsin EDTA solution 0.25 trypsin with EDTA 4Na was added and the flask laid horizontally to ensure the cells were covered by trypsin EDA and then the extra trypsin EDTA was aspirated. The cells were incubated at 37 C. for a few minutes. Cells were observed under an inverted microscope until cell layer is dispersed fresh medium is then added. Then 50 L of cell suspension was collected and mix with trypan blue 1 1 and the cells counted and assessed for viability on a haemocytometer. Viability should be 90 . The cells were centrifuged at 125 RCF 1000 rpm for 7 min and the supernatant aspirated off. The cells were resuspended in cold growth medium to 2 times the desired final concentration 100 10 mL . The suspension was mixed on ice with matrigel 1 1 . The resulting cell suspensions 50 10cells mL was used to deliver 5 10cells in an injection volume of 100 L per animal. All equipment coming into contact with matrigel needles syringes pipette tips were chilled prior to injection.

Prior to inoculation approximately 2 2 cm area was shaved in the lower back region of each mouse and cleaned with alcohol. On Day 0 5.0 10tumour cells were implanted subcutaneously into the back of mice in a volume of 100 L using a 27 28 gauge needle under Isoflurane anesthesia.

Animals were housed in ventilated cages 2 to 5 animals per cage in a 12 hour light dark cycle. Animals received sterile food and water ad libitum and housing and use of animals was performed in accordance with Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines. Animals were handled aseptically and cages changed once every 10 14 days.

Mice were monitored every Monday Wednesday and Friday for tumour development. Dimensions of established tumours was measured with calipers. Tumour volumes were calculated according to the equation L W 2 with the length mm being the longer axis of the tumour. Animals were also weighed at the time of tumour measurement. Tumours were allowed to grow to a maximum of 800 mm.

The methodology used was reviewed and approved by the University of British Columbia Animal Care Committee ACC prior to conducting the studies to ensure studies were planned in accordance with the Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines. During the study the care housing and use of animals was performed in accordance with the Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines.

Tumour volumes of each group across the treatment days were plotted. Growth curves were cutoff for each group at the time point when the first animal reached the tumour size experimental endpoint 800 mm3 or at the last day of the study. Any animal that was withdrawn from the study prior to the group growth curve cutoff was removed entirely from the study.

Any animal with ulcerating tumours necessitating euthanasia of the animal with tumour volume of 700 mmor smaller were removed from the study and did not contribute to the data analysis except for Days to Recurrence if the final tumour volume was 2.0 fold higher than on the treatment day .

All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety to the extent not inconsistent with the present description.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the disclosure is not limited except as by the appended claims.

