---

title: Unified configuration for cloud integration
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for unified configuration for cloud integration are described herein. In an aspect, the method includes rendering a unified configuration interface within a cloud application for performing cloud integration. The unified configuration interface includes a first widget to configure an external system for integration with the cloud application and a second widget to configure an integration flow (iflow) between the external system and the cloud application. The iflow defines data flow between the configured external system and the cloud application. Subsequent to receiving a confirmation of the selected iflow, integrating the external system with the cloud application to share data in the cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509560&OS=09509560&RS=09509560
owner: SAP SE
number: 09509560
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140225
---
Cloud integration facilitates integration of systems or applications for sharing data in cloud. For example cloud integration facilitates integration of an on premise application such as a customer relationship management CRM application and a cloud application for sharing data in the cloud. In general the cloud integration of the on premise application and the cloud application involves configuration at multiple levels including a configuration at a cloud application level and a configuration at a cloud integration platform level. The cloud integration platform is a middleware between the cloud application and the on premise application. However performing configuration at multiple levels for integration of on premise and cloud applications not only requires knowledge regarding multiple configuration tools but is also time consuming and labour intensive.

Embodiments of techniques for unified configuration for cloud integration are described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

A cloud application refers to an application that functions in the cloud. The cloud application can be accessed through a web browser from a communication device connected to an internet. The cloud application may be provided as SaaS software as a service PaaS platform as a service or IaaS infrastructure as a service .

Software as a service SaaS refers to a software delivery model in which software applications and associated data are centrally hosted on the cloud. SaaS applications include but are not limited to accounting collaboration customer relationship management CRM management information systems MIS enterprise resource planning ERP etc. SaaS applications are hosted centrally where software and data are stored on servers. The SaaS applications can run on a computer with an internet connection and a web browser.

Platform as a service PaaS is a service delivery model in which software applications can be created deployed and hosted. PaaS also facilitates various integrated services including but not limited to testing team collaboration web service cloud integration storage application versioning monitoring workflow management etc. One such PaaS offering is a cloud integration platform such as HANA cloud integration HCI platform for connecting the SaaS application and an on premise application.

An Integration flow iflow refers to a graphical representation defining the flow of data between systems or applications such as the on premise application and the cloud application. In an embodiment the iflow is created to define a structure in which the business applications can be linked or integrated. In an embodiment a cloud integration platform includes plug ins to create and or define iflows.

The term communication system refers to a system involved in cloud integration. The communication system may be an external or an on premise system which includes an on premise application. The communication system is configured to enable cloud integration for exchanging data between the on premise application and the cloud application.

The term communication arrangement refers to communication data such as iflows authentication certificates etc. used for connecting the communication systems. Based upon the communication data the cloud application is integrated with the external application or system. In an embodiment the communication arrangement includes data related to an inbound and outbound communication. The inbound communication refers to flow of data from the external system to the cloud application and the outbound communication refers to flow of data from the cloud application to the external system.

In general cloud integration for connecting an on premise application and a cloud application involves performing configuration within at least the cloud application s and the cloud integration platform e.g. HCI . The cloud integration platform is a middleware between the cloud applications and the on premise applications. Typically iflows are configured at the cloud integration platform whereas the communication systems and communication data are configured at the cloud applications. However it may be laborious and time consuming to perform configuration at multiple different locations e.g. the cloud application and the cloud integration platform. The following embodiments describe the technique of performing configuration in a unified manner at a single location.

Subsequent to configuring the communication system a user may select the communication arrangement option for providing communication data required to execute the integration of the communication system with the cloud application. shows exemplary user interface that is rendered in response to receiving a selection of the communication arrangement option. The user interface includes multiple tabs such as select system . select iflow define technical data review and confirmation . The selection of select system tab may display a list of configured communication systems which may be selected for integration. In an embodiment when the select system tab is selected all configured communication systems are displayed in section . Subsequently one or more of the displayed communication systems such as a HCI enabled system may be selected. The properties information pertaining to the displayed communication systems may be viewed to determine whether the communication system is HCI enabled or not. In an embodiment section may include a HCI system column not shown to indicate whether the communication system is HCI enabled or not. The HCI enabled system can be integrated with the cloud application using an iflow. Subsequent to selecting the communication system the select iflow tab may be selected for selecting an iflow from a list of available iflows to define flow of data from the HCI enabled system to the cloud application or vise versa. The UI further includes define technical data tab for defining technical data such as sender and receiver certificate authentication protocol etc. the review tab for reviewing selected communication data and the confirmation tab to confirm and finalize the selected communication data including the selected iflow.

Subsequent to selecting the iflows the define technical data tab may be selected to define various technical data related to the communication. shows exemplary user interface for defining the technical data. The interface is displayed upon receiving a selection of define technical data tab from the UI . The UI includes fields for defining technical data such as a communication method for describing the type of connection between the cloud application and the on premise system. The connection can be of various types such as a direct connection a simple object access protocol SOAP connection etc. The user may specify the communication method using a dropdown menu as shown in . The UI further includes information on inbound communication e.g. as basic settings . The technical data includes data related to the inbound and outbound communications. The inbound communication basic settings include fields for receiving inputs related to inbound communications. Such inputs include information to enable the inbound communication e.g. name of application protocol used for receiving messages in the inbound communication authentication method used for the inbound communication and user ID to identify the user of the external system. Similarly the UI includes the outbound communication basic settings . As shown because the user has not selected the tab COD to EXTERNAL therefore none of the fields are displayed under the outbound communication basic settings . The UI also includes information about sender communication setting and receiver communication setting . The sender communication setting indicates sender s certificate to authenticate the sender and the receiver communication setting indicates receiver s certificate to authenticate the receiver. The UI also includes services used data to provide information related to a user configuring the technical data and information related to account created for the external or the on premise system.

The configured communication data and the selected configured communication system can be reviewed to determine if the selection is made appropriately. shows review interface which is displayed upon receiving a selection of review tab from the UI . The review interface displays the communication data and system selected by the user e.g. data related to inbound communication communication system involved in the cloud integration communication data related to company involved in the cloud integration contact data related to the contact person such as name email id etc. Once the selections are reviewed and affirmed the confirmation tab may be selected to confirm the selected communication data and system. Upon confirmation the selected iflow is automatically deployed on the external system and the external system gets integrated with the cloud application for sharing data.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with them may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium includes a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium includes physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. A computer readable storage medium may be a non transitory computer readable storage medium. Examples of a non transitory computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic indicator devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open Database Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. an ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the one or more embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the one or more embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the embodiment are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the embodiments as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the embodiments in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the one or more embodiments is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

