---

title: Location-based discovery of network members by personal attributes for alternate channel communication
abstract: User mobile devices are equipped to discover each other through an ad hoc network, based on their location and proximity or based on mobile network reporting to one another. Locations may be reported through global positioning methods and cross-referenced by other users. Following discovery and consent, the mobile devices are connected to one another via various means, other than the ad hoc network, and utilize functions provided by services such as SMS, E-mail, chat/instant messaging, multimedia, or video. The users may be members of a common social network, and can thereby exchange social network attributes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264875&OS=09264875&RS=09264875
owner: WIRELESS DISCOVERY LLC
number: 09264875
owner_city: Los Gatos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141215
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 351 654 filed on Jan. 9 2009 which claims benefit to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 010 891 filed on Jan. 10 2008 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The invention relates to discovering members of a social network by associating their personal attributes to the mobile device for the purpose of exchanging information using mobile communication devices and in particular exchanging personal information between one or more mobile communication devices.

In light of the explosive use of mobile devices social networks and email addresses individuals are in need of the ability to exchange customized information such as pictures social network profiles emails and phone numbers using their mobile devices.

There are methods to exchange contact information in the form of Vcards. But there is no form of communication using mobile devices that allows discovery by personal attributes for the purpose of exchanging contact information. Furthermore there is no available technology adapted for allowing mobile device users to easily exchange contact and or related personal information over the internet for the purpose of social interaction by way of mobile devices.

Some available methods for contact information exchange do not provide discovery by attributes. Rather these methods assign pin numbers to individuals or offer discovery by a mobile class or mobile ID. Typically these systems require a user to operate under a common telecommunication service provider operated network. Other methods are based on Bluetooth technology in an ad hoc mode between two devices. These methods usually work only on the same brand mobile devices due to Bluetooth technology limitations compatibility and security issues.

Communication between two Bluetooth enabled devices typically requires entering a passkey or security code to allow pairing or communication between any two devices. This desire for maintaining security privacy inherent in the design of existing Bluetooth enabled devices such as a Smartphone has imposed undesirable limitations on mobile device users who wish to interact with each other in a social setting.

Other alternatives available for contact information exchange such as Beam technology permit the exchange to take place between similar mobile devices using an infrared signal. This particular solution is however limited. For example it requires a line of sight between the devices and does not offer the ability to exchange information such as pictures as a personal attribute and limits the use to a similar brand of hardware transmitting in an ad hoc mode.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 454 004 7 450 966 6 868 451 7 440 746 and 7 249 182 focus on contact information storage retrieval Bluetooth methods of profiles and exchange of contact information in an ad hoc method.

In certain embodiments the invention is directed to a system and method that allows individuals to use their mobile phones to discover others by personal attributes such as by photos and names after which the two parties can exchange information over the internet by bypassing the inherent limitations of existing Bluetooth technology e.g. security privacy limitations and compatibility issues that limit or prohibit ad hoc communication such as when mobile devices of different brands attempt to communicate with each other. In another sense where there is interference making it difficult to communicate via Bluetooth WiFi etc. there is a system disclosed that provides an alternative pathway network communication link etc. available through a cellular phone network Ethernet or similar wired or wireless connection that is available in the event the local ad hoc network becomes unavailable after initial discovery of an address or other unique identifier for a mobile device.

In one aspect the invention provides a system and method that enables free discovery of others who also desire social interaction but without being constrained by hardware compatibility issues inherent in mobile devices by different manufacturers. According to this aspect of the invention mobile device users or users can offer to other nearby users their pictures or other information as part of a discovery process save contacts received from other users and keep contacts stored on a mobile device up to date by upload download of personal information through a networked storage device e.g. an internet linked storage device accessible through a cellular phone network. The storage device can be configured to frequently push updates of a user s contacts to his her mobile device. Additionally the network link with the storage device may be configured to initiate an exchange of photos and other contact information via access to the network storage after initial discovery has occurred between users over a Bluetooth enabled communication link such as a Bluetooth user s Personal Area Network PAN .

According to the invention a process of discovery and exchange of contact information may provide the mobile device user or users with an experience of exchanging highly personal information with someone nearby after that person has been discovered using existing standard Bluetooth technology but without the need to reprogram or adapt a standard cell phone to permit exchanges of personal information over e.g. a PAN such as pictures or a VCard level of personal information. Thus the invention offers the advantage of not being limited to similar mobile devices and capable of being implemented on almost any type of mobile communication device e.g. a standard cell phone since the personal information exchange does not occur via direct communication between the mobile devices although the user has this type of experience when socializing since there can be a nearly real time exchange of personal information with someone whom he she has just discovered over a PAN or a WiFi network for example.

It should be noted that while the invention is described as implemented using Bluetooth technology and a Bluetooth type PAN Personal Area Network this is for convenience only and it will be understood that the invention is not limited to Bluetooth such as the Bluetooth Specification V 2.1 EDR Enhanced Data Rate or subsequent derivatives of Bluetooth specifications such as Bluetooth 4.1 and BLE Bluetooth low Energy and so forth. Other wireless technologies can be used including but not limited to cellular technology Wi Fi Wi Max IEEE 802.11 technology radio frequency RF communications Infrared Data Association IrDA compatible protocols Local Area Networks LAN Wide Area Networks WAN and Shared Wireless Access Protocol SWAP and Personal Area Networks PAN .

For purposes of explanation the following definitions are adopted. A requesting user is the person or person s who using a Bluetooth enabled that is more generally wireless enabled as defined above mobile device initiates a discovery process e.g. search for other Bluetooth enabled devices within a PAN and a discovered user is the person or person s having a Bluetooth enabled device that are discovered by the requesting user.

In one example two persons a requesting user and discovered or discoverable user are members of a social network that allows the members to communicate with each other over the internet. The network includes a server that stores personal attribute information. A standard Bluetooth discovery process may be initiated by the requesting user. The discoverable user member is discovered e.g. when the requesting user s mobile device receives a Bluetooth address. Then this address is communicated to the server and in response the server sends a picture and name or other information of the discoverable user to the requesting user. The requesting user s next requests that the server transmit his her customized invitation or electronic card to the now discovered user. The communication between requesting discovered users may then proceed by accessing information located over network storage thereby bypassing the limitations of communication using the Bluetooth protocol. The Bluetooth protocol in this example is used to locate someone nearby. But after this discovery the requesting and discovered users thereafter communicate over the internet. The subsequent interaction may include an exchange of VCards or similar electronic coordinates SMS or other forms of real time communication that may be facilitated by the same service that connected the two users to each other or by a third party service.

According to another aspect of the invention there is a system and method that allows users of a social network or more generally database service to create custom social cards that include social profiles emails phone numbers and or a picture as a personal attribute. In one embodiment a custom social card associated with the discovered user may be received when a requesting user discovers another member of the service rather than an uninteresting Bluetooth address or serial number. For instance the social card may include a picture and a name personalized icons or card designs etc. Furthermore the requesting user may collect a plurality of such social cards when there are many members of the service within the short range network or vicinity or geographic area as defined by the user who is conducting the search. The social cards are received from the server in response to the requesting user s mobile device uploading mobile device attributes associated with other members of the social network group or service. If the requesting user elects to make contact with one or more of the members he she may send an invitation containing a picture of the requesting user with a personalized message intended to spark an interest in the discovered user. The discovered user may then respond by sending his her own custom social card or reject the invitation.

The system includes a network linked storage facility that collects information provided by members of a group e.g. members of a social network along with personal attributes in a data base hosted by a centralized computer with internet connection. The system associates a member s e.g. phone ID to the member s account profile. The phone association takes place when the user downloads a client side application which collects among other things a unique phone characteristic such as a Bluetooth address or serial number.

In accordance with one or more of the foregoing objectives the invention may be implemented to allow mobile device users to discover other members of the same database service e.g. a social network within a vicinity covered by short range wireless networks such as Bluetooth but without being limited by the shortcomings of the Bluetooth or related short range telecommunication standards and or related hardware incompatibilities. The members can elect to exchange or send personalized intimate contact information over the internet after the users have discovered each other thereby bypassing short range security privacy barriers and or hardware compatibilities between mobile communication devices from different manufacturers. Hence the invention enhances and facilitates the sharing of contact information between mobile users. The invention leverages available technology and standard protocols available today such as Bluetooth technology and defined standards within the Bluetooth technology such as Vcard profile and OBEX.

As mentioned earlier all of the presently known existing technology for communicating over short range e.g. infrared or Bluetooth focus on pushing contact information from one device to another. According to another aspect of the invention there is a bidirectional exchange of contact information allowing receiving and sending at the same time. There is no slave master relationship which is common to all current existing contact exchange technologies between mobile devices.

The invention fills a gap left by the existing standards and technologies when it comes to the actual discovery process and exchange of contact information over the internet by bypassing ad hoc communication and compatibility issues.

According to another embodiment a system for exchanging personal information between a first user and second user includes a server accessible through the internet the server providing access to stored user profile information about the first and second users including personal attribute information and mobile device addresses searching using a first device for the presence of other mobile devices within the vicinity of the first device using the short range communication protocol whereupon discovery of a second device the first device receives a unique identifying attribute of the second device the first mobile device sending from the first device to the server the received identifying attribute for the second device the server sending to the second device via the server an invitation to accept personal information from or share personal information with the first user wherein the invitation includes a graphics file associated with the first user s personal attribute information and the second mobile device accepting or rejecting using the second device the invitation from the first device.

According to yet another embodiment a method for requesting an exchange of personal information using a mobile communication device comprises the steps of searching for the presence of other mobile devices within a personal area network receiving a mobile device attribute from one or more nearby mobile devices and sending one or more of the received mobile device attributes to a server located on the internet the server being responsive to receipt of the one or more mobile device attributes for transmitting personal information about a respective one or more persons associated with the mobile device attributes received by the server.

According to yet another embodiment a system for exchanging information among members of a group such as members of a social network service includes an internet based server having a registration portion. After a user has registered online with the service the server downloads a client side application to the mobile device. A registration process is complete when a user receives a copy of a customized social card. And the user may thereafter transmit his her social card to devices identified over a local network such as a PAN or to devices in the vicinity whose location was reported to the server as being close to the first user or in the geographic area specified in the first user search criteria or reported in the users database as members in the same vicinity address geographical vicinity wherein in certain embodiments those devices users are also members of the social network of the searching user.

According to another aspect of the invention there is a method for meeting people including discovering people e.g. over an ad hoc network personal area network etc. viewing their pictures names or other personal information and selecting one or more people to send an invitation. The invitation may take the form of a social card VCard or other manner of engaging another person in a social atmosphere or even a business setting such as a meeting trade show conference etc.

According to another aspect of the invention there is a method for discovering a person over a first network and then communicating with that person over a second network after obtaining an electronic coordinate e.g. a Bluetooth ID address of the person. The first network can be a Personal Area Network PAN and the second network can be a cellular phone network. The method may further include the step of selecting and exchanging information based on pictures received at each of two or more mobile devices based on a mobile phone ID indexing cross reference at a network server. The mobile device users can be members of a service that operates maintains the server. The method may further include contacting each mobile user by a message that is presented to the user by a picture displayed on and selectable by a mobile phone the picture being sent by a server responsive to a received mobile phone ID or Bluetooth address.

According to another embodiment a server is capable of providing a communication between a first and second mobile phone user based on receipt of mobile phone identifier the server communicating via a cellular phone network and the mobile device identifiers being discovered over a PAN or similar local ad hoc network. The server is capable of providing information to phones not capable of exchanging data via Bluetooth or the related ad hoc network communication protocol and or not connected to a cellular phone network via a common cellular phone network provider or provider plan. In certain embodiments unique ad hoc network identifiers comprising a Bluetooth device address a WiFi address or main component address such as IMEI which is the international Mobile Station Equipment identify are exchanged between the devices via the server.

According to another aspect of the invention there is a method for discovering a person over a first one directional network and then communicating with that person over a second bi directional network after obtaining an electronic coordinate e.g. a Bluetooth address of the person. The first network can be a Personal Area Network PAN and the second network can be a cellular phone network. The one directional network can conduct the discovery utilizing a communication medium having a master slave relationship as understood in the art while the second network can operate by utilizing a network based storage for receiving and responding to requests to send or receive information form each side of the communication e.g. bi directional communication between a first and second mobile device.

In accordance with certain embodiments a system includes a discovery device connected to a short range wireless communication protocol through an ad hoc wireless network which is connected to local computing machine that is connected to the internet and providing connection to a server. The server is configured to communicate for detecting first user presence in vicinity through the discovery device and local computing machine the first user using a respective first mobile communications device and the discovery device is equipped with short range wireless technology each capable of connecting to the server through an internet connection and each also connected to the short range wireless communication protocol through the ad hoc wireless network. The server is in communication with the internet and configured to provide access to stored user profile information and preferences of the first user respectively including personal attribute information and a mobile communications device address. The server is configured to receive from the first mobile communications device or from the discovery device a received unique ad hoc network identifier for the first mobile communications device received by the discovery device from the discovery device in response to a search for users in vicinity using the short range communication protocol for the presence of the first mobile communications device on the ad hoc network. The server configured to receive from the discovery device the unique ad hoc network identifier of the first mobile communications device and to send to local computing equipment instructions based on user preferences. The local computing device is capable of connecting to other local devices via wireless signal and can control functions. Example of other wireless local devices that maybe connected to the local computing device would be a wireless light controller device a wireless temperature controller device and or wireless home security controller device using the unique ad hoc network identifier the server which is connected to the local computing device confirms the first user identity and personal attributes. This can be a onetime event and requires that local computing device stores match between first user unique ad hoc identification or can be a function required each time the local computing machine detects a unique ad hoc id identifier. Upon receiving confirmation of first user attributes the local computing device can execute commands based on first user preferences such as instruct lighting device to turn on off dim or connect to temperature control device to adjust temperature.

In accordance with certain embodiments a method includes providing via a local computing device accessible internet and connection to server access to stored user profile information about a first user using a respective first mobile communications device receiving via the computing device from the stationed discovery device a received unique ad hoc network identifier for the first mobile communications device received by the first mobile communications device from the discovery device using the short range communication protocol on the ad hoc network sending via the computing device to the other controlling network devices in vicinity using wireless network instruction based on first user preferences.

In accordance with certain embodiments a local device is equipped with short range wireless technology capable of searching for members of the social network in the vicinity and receive from mobile devices unique ad hoc identifier. The local device has wired or wireless connection to the internet and configured to connect to a server or other service applications that has access to the server and the first user personal attributes. The local device is capable and programmed to perform regular timed searches for members in the vicinity. And upon identifying members such as First user the discovery device cause the computing device to perform a method. In certain embodiments the method includes connecting to the server via internet connection and reporting to the server the first user presence in the vicinity connecting to other wireless devices in the vicinity to execute functions based on first user preferences such as unlock door turn lights on or adjust temperature.

In accordance with certain embodiments a method includes the use of a computing device that is capable or reporting to the server that specific function were indeed executed based on first user preferences and the server can update profile information accordingly and may or may not share this information about the first user presence and functions executed to other social network members who are connected to the first user.

In accordance with certain embodiments a device that is equipped with short range wireless technology and computing capabilities and is capable of connecting to the internet via a wireless signal or mobile service the device operable to detect user presence in its vicinity by obtaining a unique ad hoc identifier of the user in the vicinity the device upon detecting said user operable report same to a computing machine to thereby cause the computing machine to 

provide through a wireless network or mobile telecommunications provider network access to a stored user profile information about a first user by way of a first mobile communication device associated with the first user and provide a wired or wireless connection to other devices in the vicinity of the first user to execute functions based on saved personal preferences of the first user.

According to certain embodiments the executed functions are selected from a temperature adjustment a light activation or a door lock control.

All publications patent applications or patents mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

According to one aspect of the disclosure mobile device users sign up or register with a service that enables the exchange of personal information through a network based server. After a user provides mobile device information and a phone number an internet based centralized computer system hereinafter Server sends to the mobile device a notification via SMS Short Messaging Service . The SMS message also known as a text message alerts the new user to click on an internet link to install the service provider s client side application on his her mobile device. Of course other procedures for loading the client side application onto the user s mobile device can be used and the SMS message modality is not to be construed as a limitation.

The user provides information by filling out an on line profile including uploading graphics or pictures. An example of a computer generated sign up screen is shown in . Additional aspects of the registration process include creating a social card which is intended to be sent to discovered users with whom the user wishes to communicate and or to a requesting user upon being discovered e.g. via a Bluetooth communication protocol or the other technologies delimited above.

As mentioned above the registration process also includes download of the client side application CSA it resides on the mobile device is enabled to communicate directly with the service e.g. to synchronize update addresses access account information via username password or phone ID send requests for information about users send invitations accept exchange deny requests for exchange of information obtain instances of the server addresses etc. The registration process may be completed when the mobile device receives the customized social card through the resident CSA. Additional aspects of the possible functionalities of the client side application are provided below. Personal and other user information can also be added by way of the CSA for storage on the server including hobbies business associations or personal information as examples. This and other information can also be added for storage on the server means other than the CSA such as the user s personal computer a dedicated kiosk or other means for accessing the server through the internet.

Preferably in order to take advantage of the functionalities provided by the service the member of the service member should have a mobile communication device that provides separate facilities besides voice transmission for transmitting digital data. This allows a mobile phone to act like any other computer over the Internet sending and receiving data via the Internet Protocol. illustrates how communication between mobile users and the Server is conducted. In certain embodiments communication between the member s mobile devices and the server goes through a Cellular Base Transceiver Station BTS and communicates according to a packet based telecommunications protocol such as GPRS 3G or any alternative data technology.

Hereinafter the short range communication network used in the examples will primarily be described in terms of the Bluetooth standard. However as explained above it should be remembered that other forms of short range communication may instead be used e.g. WiFi.

One format for storing information about a user member of the service is shown in . Depicted herein are some of the types of user information that may be stored and made accessible to the user at the server. Users may provide personal attributes such as name address and a picture. Information about the user s mobile device may include the make model and phone number.

The service provided to users may be operated accessible under a centralized computer system server which may include three components 1 Graphical user interface providing an interface to members of the network to sign up input edit profile information etc. 2 A scripting language designed for producing dynamic web pages such as PHP. This is a middle layer scripting that manages programming commands. 3 A comprehensive data base that includes user s information for example as discussed above and shown in .

Step Account set up and information provided through a web based User Interface e.g. such as shown in 

Step The CSA collects characteristics from the mobile device such as a Bluetooth address for the purpose of associating the mobile device with a user account maintained at the Server. This association between a Bluetooth address and information in the associated user s account e.g. a photo allows the display of interesting personal information such as a picture as opposed to simply a Bluetooth address device type etc. among members during discovery such as depicted in . In this manner members can interact with each other in a way intended to facilitate social interaction without being limited to only the information made available through existing hardware independent and limited communication ability as adopted under the Bluetooth standard.

Step To complete installation of the CSA the server provides the mobile device with a copy of the member s social card and account information. Thereafter the user may update replace revise the social card or personal attribute information modify hide or publish profile information at the server as contained in the user s contact information e.g. the information contained in the user s Vcard which may be sent when the user accepts or a discovered user accepts an invitation to exchange contact information.

Some of the other functions that may be included in the CSA are discussed below. As mentioned above illustrates how the Server may associate each mobile device with a member account of the service using a Bluetooth device ID address. During the installation process the Server may send the CSA to the mobile device and also obtain from the mobile device its unique Bluetooth device ID address BD ADDR . Every mobile device with Bluetooth capability has a unique 48 bit address. The installed application sends the Bluetooth address to the server and associates the member with this particular mobile device. Example of an obtained BD ADDR 48 bit would be 00 23 7A 04 E2 C4. Alternative user device information can be for instance main component address such as IMEI which is the international Mobile Station Equipment identify.

As known in the art a Bluetooth enabled device permits the user to perform an inquiry to find other devices located within the mobile device s PAN to be connected to it via the Bluetooth communication standard and configured to respond to inquiries from the requesting user. However the Bluetooth protocol only provides device name ID address and or device class if requested. Communication between two devices over Bluetooth requires pairing or acceptance by its owner but the connection itself can be initiated by any device and held until it goes out of range. The initial contact or discovery of another member according to the invention may be established by this standard form of communication. Once contact is made and the Bluetooth device ID address of the discovered user obtained then personal contact information is received from the network based service as explained above in response to the initial identifying information about the mobile device. It should be noted that contact among users is not limited to this users within a PAN personal area network . Rather users within the vicinity of each other discovered using location based services or other means can establish contact in the manner described herein.

Referring again to the Bluetooth standard may be used to accomplish two tasks First is to obtain a device address. Second to perform an inquiry utilizing Bluetooth software layers and architecture. After these tasks are complete all subsequent communications can be facilitated through the server which may be via a bi directional method of personal contact information exchange.

As will be understood in light of the disclosure a bi directional method for exchange is capable of automating the process of data packet transfer and receipt from both devices reducing the time and human involvement required from both parties to cause the aforementioned processes according to the invention to occur. Thus in one sense a bi directional mode of communication may enhance the social experience because it gives the users a sense that the invitation response and a follow up exchange if there is interest is occurring in near real time e.g. as if the devices were actually communicating over a PAN . In the Bluetooth spec the standard requires that one party is a master and the other party is a slave. All data exchange requires a push and or pull between the master and slave. A bi directional method identifies both parties as masters and the exchange is managed from both directions as both parties are communicating to a centralized computer system rather than directly. This bi directional process can allow the users to process multiple requests through the server without waiting for a single process between two devices that can handle only one push or one pull at a time for example.

It will be appreciated in light of the disclosure that the bi directional mode of communication method offers the advantage of facilitating an ongoing exchange between mobile device users. That is the server can receive and send information simultaneously to both users as opposed to a master slave type relationship. Thus in one sense this aspect of the invention may be thought of as providing master master type communication protocol whereby each mobile device can send and receive information independent of the other mobile device. It will be understood that master in this sense does not mean or imply that only a Bluetooth protocol is necessarily contemplated.

Unlike communication using Bluetooth which is limited by security constraints between paired devices inherent in the Bluetooth standard and or related hardware compatibility issues between mobile devices all of which are greatly limited in the kinds of information that may be exchanged using standard hardware software platforms on mobile devices the invention allows a user to essentially bypass these constraints so that a more personal interaction becomes possible using a standard mobile communication device such as one equipped with Bluetooth or other protocols for wireless or wired communication. Wireless technologies for this purpose include but are not limited to cellular technology Wi Fi Wi Max IEEE 802.11 technology radio frequency RF communications Infrared Data Association IrDA compatible protocols Local Area Networks LAN Wide Area Networks WAN and Shared Wireless Access Protocol SWAP and Personal Area Networks PAN .

It will be readily apparent that the invention provides a medium for near real time exchange of contact information unlike E mail SMS or other modes of communication between mobile devices. In this sense the user experience is enhanced over the exchange of E mail or texting among phones in at least three ways. First and most obviously a requesting device is not limited to conversing with only members that he she can contact through a known e mail address phone number etc. Second the exchange may proceed simply by initiating discovery and or responding to a discovery request. Third the exchange can occur among multiple members of a service at the same time.

Of course once consenting contact has been established between two or more users other types of communication between them for example SMS E mail chat instant messaging in the form of text or multimedia video etc. can also be facilitated. This is depicted in . The centralized computer system server may include or be associated with an SMS server platform or E mail platform that provides a corresponding channel of communication between the users A B. The users are shown communicating directly with one another via SMS platform and or E mail platform facilitated by server .

In one example in a first step of the discovery process a user scans the surrounding area covered by Bluetooth short range wireless signal and obtains all Bluetooth addresses of members in the area. In the second step the server associates all or some of these Bluetooth addresses with member profiles in the data base each of which may contain the information described in and provides the requesting user conducting the discovery with the results of the discovery in the form of personal attributes of nearby members including their pictures and names which may be a social card for each of the members of the service. If a device address is not associated with a member of the service the Server will report to the user conducting the discovery that the address as Unknown or provide generic information such as the device class or device name per Bluetooth standards.

Step The results of a discovery are provided to the requesting user who receives personal attributes including pictures and names of four other discovered users. Four is not a limit and greater numbers of discovered users is contemplated. The requesting user User 1 selects the one or more of the discovered users from the list using functions available through the CSA that he wishes to exchange contact information with. This request is received by the CSA such as through the mobile device s touch sensitive screen for selecting one or more displayed social cards or icons displaying a discovered user s picture and name e.g. as shown in the drawings . Once the mobile device user selects one or more discovered users by screen keypad mouse pen etc. the CSA can then initiate automatic access information to the Server. Form this point the server proceeds to distribute the social card or other information to the selected discovered user s . The distributed social card or other information can be preset and or it can be controlled by the discovering user during the instant session.

Step The Server receives the request from User CSA which in this case is a request to exchange or send contact information to User and or etc . The Server sends a notification to User and or alerting her of User s request to exchange personal contact information. This alert is sent in the form of User s custom social card providing personal attributes including name and picture and requesting User to either accept ignore or exchange contact information.

Step User informs the server with her choice of accepting ignoring or exchanging contact information. This command like the others issued by User is processed by the CSA on the User mobile device which engages in a two way communication with the Server via internet protocol for example.

Step If the choice selected by User is exchange contact information User will receive User s customized social card. The CSA on User s device obtains this information from the Server via the internet protocol. The information may be received in the form of Vcard and stored in User s local mobile device resident address book as well stored under User s account in the Server s database. User can receive User s customized social card in the same manner and the contact information may also be stored in User s local mobile device resident address book as well as stored under User s account at the Server s database. If User s choice was ignore then the CSA may send via the internet protocol a rejection notification to User . This may be in the form of an alternative customized social card for User or simply by a text message rejection. The third choice accept causes the CSA on User s mobile device to receive User s information only but not send her card in exchange.

The communication between the Server application and CSA are conducted via common standards such as HTTP A protocol used to request and transmit files especially WebPages and webpage components over the Internet or other computer network . Communication between the CSA and Server may utilize the well known XML format A meta language written in SGML that allows one to design a markup language used to allow for the easy interchange of documents over the World Wide Web .

The server database may store any contact information exchanged and add it through a synchronization method with the client side application on the mobile device address book if the user elects to store the information locally.

In other embodiments the invention may be practiced using other short range wireless communication protocols such as WiFi or WiMax in lieu of Bluetooth if the mobile devices have chipsets that support such a wireless signal as described above.

Associating the mobile device using Bluetooth information as described in connection with and may in alternative embodiments be accomplished with GPS Global Positioning System information association subject to ability to locate devices and associate them by location of cellular towers or chipsets.

In certain embodiments the server can track locations of participating members and report these locations to nearby members. Location tracking can be based on GPS and or WiFi or other known protocols. In this manner members who are not Bluetooth enabled or outside of Bluetooth or short range wireless signal can still be discovered and connected to other members who are close by. depict such an arrangement wherein server is shown receiving GPS coordinates from Users A and B comparing these coordinates to determine proximity and informing the users of the proximity. Informing one user of another s proximity can be contingent upon consent of the users as obtained above and can be performed in gradations for example initially sending limited information of one user to another then increasing the delivered information and establishing contact depending on consent. In certain embodiments the participating members report their locations to the server for example periodically and the server maintains a record of and updates these reported locations and provides reports to certain users for examples to those belonging to a common social network. User profiles of users who are connected can be updated to reflect this information by the server computing device.

In certain embodiments the CSA residing on the mobile device may have the following software functionality.

An Authentication portion requests authentication parameters from a user ID or user login name and password connects to an instance of server sends user authorization information to the server side using ID or user name and password displays a reason for denied access in case of incorrect login and exits from the software in case of a preset number of incorrect logins allows a user to change the password and downloads profile information from the server.

A Synchronize portion retrieves a list of contacts from the server getCard cmd all and stores contents of the result set to the local address book create new contacts and update existing contacts periodically retrieves the list of pending and changed contacts from the server udateCard cmd pending and getCard cmd changed and stores contents of the result set to the local address book create new contacts and update existing contacts and scans the local address book for changes and new entries and sends those changes to the server.

Optionally the service may connect to another social network database through APIs which are application programming interfaces to access other social network users attributes such as name and picture.

The methods of connecting and application programming interface would differentiate from one social network to another and be proprietary to the respective social networks. An application programming interface API is a set of routines protocols and tools for building software applications.

An API expresses a User Attributes such as name picture and any additional information on the user. The API expresses as well the social network operations inputs outputs and underlying types.

A Bluetooth Exchange Contacts portion allows a user to discover devices with the application installed nearby by Bluetooth for the devices in which a client application is resident download limited information name title and a picture display the list of found Bluetooth devices with mentioning if a device from the list has a CSA running or not allow a user to select devices from the list of found devices one or multiple allow a user to initiate the sending of his contact information e.g. social card to the selected devices Send the user s profile to the selected device s If the CSA is running on the device then send the profile as profile including ID and picture if a CSA is not installed or running on the device then send the profile as a VCARD text vcard MIME type listen for inbound connections from clients accept requests for brief information. Additionally this module sends a partial contact information in response to a request accepts requests for card exchange ask a user for confirmation send user confirmation back accepts contact information and stores it locally and sends own contact information.

In certain embodiments the process of ad hoc discovery of members can be between a mobile device and a discovery device that is capable of connecting via short range and connected to the network via Internet enabling technology wired or wireless. Such an arrangement is shown in . The discovery device can be planted at a particular location for example a convention center and coupled wirelessly or by wireline to the computing device server for example through a network . The reporting device operates to discover users A B who are in the vicinity and report same to the computing device server . The computing device server can then send users A B who were discovered in the vicinity short text message or multimedia message informing them of the presence of each other. The discovery device can connect through wireless or wired communication methods potentially through a network to additional devices to execute functions based on the detected users of the network in the vicinity. Such functions can be based on user preference and include network of things functionality such as turning lights on or off controlling thermostats to adjust temperature locking or unlocking doors and similar remote object control.

Having thus described at least one illustrative embodiment of the invention various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be within the scope and spirit of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description is by way of example only and is not intended as limiting.

