---

title: Soluble guanylate cyclase activators
abstract: A compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, are capable of modulating the body's production of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (“cGMP”) and are generally suitable for the therapy and prophylaxis of diseases which are associated with a disturbed cGMP balance. The invention furthermore relates to processes for preparing compounds of Formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for their use in the therapy and prophylaxis of the abovementioned diseases and for preparing pharmaceuticals for this purpose, and to pharmaceutical preparations which comprise compounds of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09611278&OS=09611278&RS=09611278
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09611278
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141205
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT US2014 68688 filed Dec. 5 2014 which claims priority from U.S. provisional application No. 61 914 562 filed Dec. 11 2013.

Cyclic GMP cGMP is an important intracellular messenger which triggers a multitude of different effects via the modulation of cGMP dependent protein kinases phosphodiesterases and ion channels. Examples are the relaxation of smooth muscles the inhibition of thrombocyte activation and the inhibition of the proliferation of smooth muscle cells and of leukocyte adhesion. cGMP is produced by particulate and soluble guanylate cyclases as a response to a number of extracellular and intracellular stimuli. In the case of the particulate guanylate cyclases stimulation is essentially effected by peptidic messengers such as the atrial natriuretic peptide or the cerebral natriuretic peptide. The soluble guanylate cyclases sGC which are cytosolic heterodimeric heme proteins in contrast are essentially regulated by a family of low molecular weight factors which are formed enzymatically. The most important stimulant is nitrogen monoxide NO or a closely related species. The function of other factors such as carbon monoxide or the hydroxyl radical is still largely unclear. The binding of NO to the heme with formation of a penta coordinate heme nitrosyl complex is proposed as the mechanism of the activation by NO. The associated release of the histidine which is bound in the basal state to the iron converts the enzyme into the active conformation.

Active soluble guanylate cyclases are each composed of an and a subunit. Several subunit subtypes have been described which differ from one another with respect to sequence tissue specific distribution and expression in different development stages. The subtypes and are mainly expressed in brain and lung while is found in particular in liver and kidney. The subtype was shown to be present in human fetal brain. The subunits referred to as and were isolated from human brain and are homologous to and . More recent works indicate an subunit which contains an insert in the catalytic domain. All subunits show great homologies in the region of the catalytic domain. The enzymes presumably contain one heme per heterodimer which is bound via Cys 78 and or His 105 and is part of the regulatory center.

Under pathologic conditions the formation of guanylate cyclase activating factors can be reduced or their degradation may be promoted owing to the increased occurrence of free radicals. The resulting reduced activation of the sGC leads via a weakening of the respective cGMP mediated cellular response for example to an increase of the blood pressure to platelet activation or to increased cell proliferation and cell adhesion. As a consequence formation of endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis hypertension stable or unstable angina pectoris thrombosis myocardial infarction strokes or erectile dysfunction results. Pharmacological stimulation of sGC offers a possibility to normalize cGMP production and therefore makes possible the treatment and or prevention of such disorders.

For the pharmacological stimulation of the sGC use has been made of compounds whose activity is based on an intermediate NO release for example organic nitrates. The drawback of this treatment is the development of tolerance and a reduction of activity and the higher dosage which is required because of this.

Various sGC stimulators which do not act via NO release were described by Vesely in a series of publications. However the compounds most of which are hormones plant hormones vitamins or natural compounds such as for example lizard poisons predominantly only have weak effects on the cGMP formation in cell lysates. D. L. Vesely Eur. J. Clin. Invest. vol. 15 1985 p. 258 D. L. Vesely Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. vol. 88 1979 p. 1244. A stimulation of heme free guanylate cyclase by protoporphyrin IX was demonstrated by Ignarro et al. Adv. Pharmacol. vol. 26 1994 p. 35. Pettibone et al. Eur. J. Pharmacol. vol. 116 1985 p. 307 described an antihypertensive action of diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate and attributed this to a stimulation of sGC. According to Yu et al. Brit. J. Pharmacol vol. 114 1995 p. 1587 isoliquiritigenin which has a relaxing action on isolated rat aortas also activates sGC. Ko et al. Blood vol. 84 1994 p. 4226 Yu et al. Biochem. J. vol. 306 1995 p. 787 and Wu et al. Brit. J. Pharmacol. vol. 116 1995 p. 1973 demonstrated a sGC stimulating activity of 1 benzyl 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl indazole and demonstrated an antiproliferative and thrombocyte inhibiting action. Pyrazoles and fused pyrazoles which exhibit a sGC stimulating activity are described in European Patent Application No. 908 456 and German Patent Application No. 19 744 027.

A series of 2 sulfonylaminobenzoic acid N arylamides the N aryl group of which carries a thio substituent have been mentioned in the literature. These compounds in which the N aryl group generally carries as further substituents groups which are readily oxidizable such as for example two hydroxy groups being in para position with respect to one another and which in this case can be regarded as hydroquinone derivatives are auxiliaries for the preparation of photographic materials see for example Chemical Abstracts 119 105757 120 41858 123 70224 or 126 257007 . British patent publication No. 876 526 Chemical Abstracts 56 15432e discloses 3 5 dichloro 2 methylsulfonylaminobenzoic acid N 5 chloro 2 4 chlorophenylmercapto phenyl amide which can be used for the protection of wool against moths.

It has now been found that the compounds of the present invention effect a strong activation of guanylate cyclase and are therefore suitable for the therapy and prophylaxis of disorders which are associated with a low cGMP level.

The present invention relates to compounds which activate soluble guanylate cyclase and are valuable pharmaceutically active compounds for the therapy and prophylaxis of diseases for example for cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension heart failure pulmonary hypertension angina pectoris diabetes cardiac insufficiency thrombosis chronic kidney disease or atherosclerosis. The compounds of Formula I

In another embodiment of this invention which is referred to as Embodiment 1 herein are compounds of Formula I or Formula Ia wherein 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1 wherein Xand Xare both N. In another embodiment Xand Xare both CR in Formula I Formula Ia or Formula Ib or Xand Xare both CH in Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1. In another embodiment Xis N and Xis CR in Formula I Formula Ia or Formula Ib or Xis N and Xis CH in Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1 wherein Ris H or Calkyl unsubstituted or substituted with one to three of F particularly it is H CH CD CHCHor CDCD and more particularly it is CHor CD.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia or Embodiment 1 wherein Ris unsubstituted Calkyl unsubstituted Ccycloalkyl or unsubstituted phenyl. In an alternate embodiment Ris

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1 wherein Ris Calkyl or Ccycloalkyl and particularly it is Calkyl or cyclopropyl.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1 wherein Ris a 5 membered heteroaryl ring selected from 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1 wherein Ris a 6 membered heteroaryl ring selected from 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1 wherein Ris an 8 to 10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl comprised of carbon atoms and one to two heteroatoms independently selected from N O or S and particularly selected from N and O. More particularly Ris a bicyclic heteroaryl ring system selected from 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia or Embodiment 1 wherein Rit is H OH or NH and more particularly it is NH.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or Embodiment 1 wherein Ris a F or Cl b Calkyl or more particularly Calkyl c CF d CH Ccycloalkyl or more particularly CH Ccycloalkyl e Calkyl substituted with Ccycloalkyl such that the cycloalkyl and the alkyl share a common carbon at the point of attachment to each other f Ccycloalkyl or more particularly Ccycloalkyl g OCalkyl or more particularly OCalkyl h Calkenyl i C O OCalkyl j Calkyl C O OH k Calkyl C O OCH or l CD.

In another embodiment of this invention are each of the following compounds of Formula I including the S and R enantiomers of such compounds and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of each said compound 

All structural Formulas embodiments and classes thereof described herein include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds defined therein. Reference to the compounds of structural Formula I includes the compounds of other generic structural Formulas and embodiments that fall within the scope of Formula I including but not limited to Formula Ia Formula Ib and Embodiment 1.

As used herein except where noted alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms when noted. Commonly used abbreviations for alkyl groups are used throughout the specification e.g. methyl may be represented by conventional abbreviations including Me or CHor a symbol that is an extended bond without a defined terminal group e.g. a methyl substituent on phenyl may be represented as 

Alkyl alkenyl alkynyl and cycloalkyl are each intended to include such carbon moieties containing isotopic forms of hydrogen H such as protium H for example but not limited to CH and or deuterium H also denoted herein as D for example but not limited to CD.

 Alkenyl unless otherwise indicated means carbon chains which contain at least one carbon carbon double bond and which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof. Examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to vinyl allyl isopropenyl pentenyl hexenyl heptenyl 1 propenyl 2 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl and the like. The term alkynyl refers to a hydrocarbon radical straight or branched containing the specified number of carbon atoms and at least one carbon to carbon triple bond. Alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl butynyl 3 methylbutynyl and so on.

 Heteroaryl unless otherwise indicated means a mono or bicyclic aromatic ring or ring system wherein the ring or ring system is made up of a specified number of atoms when noted and which contains at least one heteroatom selected from O S and N or a specified number and selection of heteroatoms when noted. Examples include but are not limited to pyrrolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrazolyl pyridyl oxazolyl oxadiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl 2 3H one thiadiazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl furanyl triazinyl thienyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrimidyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and the like. Heteroaryl also includes a bicyclic ring system comprised of a mono heteroaryl ring fused to a heterocyclic ring or a cycloalkyl ring. Additional examples of heteroaryls include but are not limited to indazolyl thienopyrazolyl imidazopyridazinyl pyrazolopyrazolyl pyrazolopyridinyl imidazopyridinyl and imidazothiazolyl. Heteroaryl also includes such groups in charged form e.g. pyridinium.

 Heterocyclyl heterocyclic heterocycle or the like unless otherwise indicated means a 5 or 6 membered monocyclic non aromatic or saturated ring containing at least one heteroatom selected from N S and O in which the point of attachment may be via an available carbon or nitrogen in the ring. Examples include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl imidazolidinyl 2 3 dihydrofuro 2 3 b pyridyl benzoxazinyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl or tetrahydropyranyl and the like. The terms also includes partially unsaturated monocyclic rings that are not aromatic such as 2 or 4 pyridones attached through the nitrogen or N substituted 1H 3H pyrimidine 2 4 diones N substituted uracils . The terms also include such moieties in charged form e.g. piperidinium.

 Halogen or halo unless otherwise indicated includes fluorine fluoro chlorine chloro bromine bromo and iodine iodo . In one embodiment halo is fluoro F or chloro Cl .

When any variable e.g. R R etc. occurs more than one time in any constituent or in Formula I or other generic Formulae herein its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. In choosing compounds of the present invention one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the various substituents i.e. R R etc. are to be chosen in conformity with well known principles of chemical structure connectivity and stability. Unless expressly stated to the contrary substitution by a named substituent is permitted on any atom in a ring e.g. aryl a heteroaryl ring or a saturated heterocyclic ring provided such ring substitution is chemically allowed and results in a stable compound. A stable compound is a compound which can be prepared and isolated and whose structure and properties remain or can be caused to remain essentially unchanged for a period of time sufficient to allow use of the compound for the purposes described herein e.g. therapeutic or prophylactic administration to a subject .

The term substituted shall be deemed to include multiple degrees of substitution by a named substituent. Where multiple substituent moieties are disclosed or claimed the substituted compound can be independently substituted by one or more of the disclosed or claimed substituent moieties singly or plurally. By independently substituted it is meant that the two or more substituents can be the same or different.

Under standard nomenclature used throughout this disclosure the terminal portion of the designated side chain is described first followed by the adjacent functionality toward the point of attachment. For example a Calkylcarbonylamino Calkyl substituent is equivalent to

Unless expressly depicted or described otherwise variables depicted in a structural formula with a floating bond such as R are permitted on any available carbon atom in the ring to which the variable is attached. When a moiety is noted as being optionally substituted in Formula I or any embodiment thereof it means that Formula I or the embodiment thereof encompasses compounds that contain the noted substituent or substituents on the moiety and also compounds that do not contain the noted substituent or substituents on the moiety.

Compounds of structural Formula I may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates and racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixtures and individual diastereoisomers. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have S configuration or R configuration. The compounds of this invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The present invention is meant to comprehend all such stereo isomeric forms of the compounds of structural Formula I.

Compounds of structural Formula I may be separated into their individual diastereoisomers by for example fractional crystallization from a suitable solvent for example methanol or ethyl acetate or a mixture thereof or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute configuration. Alternatively any stereoisomer or isomers of a compound of Formula I may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known absolute configuration.

If desired racemic mixtures of the compounds may be separated so that the individual enantiomers are isolated. The separation can be carried out by methods well known in the art such as the coupling of a racemic mixture of compounds to an enantiomerically pure compound to form a diastereoisomeric mixture followed by separation of the individual diastereoisomers by standard methods such as fractional crystallization or chromatography. The coupling reaction is often the formation of salts using an enantiomerically pure acid or base. The diasteromeric derivatives may then be converted to the pure enantiomers by cleavage of the added chiral residue. The racemic mixture of the compounds can also be separated directly by chromatographic methods utilizing chiral stationary phases which methods are well known in the art.

For compounds of Formula I described herein which contain olefinic double bonds unless specified otherwise they are meant to include both E and Z geometric isomers.

Some of the compounds described herein may exist as tautomers which have different points of attachment of hydrogen accompanied by one or more double bond shifts. For example a ketone and its enol form are keto enol tautomers. The individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are encompassed with compounds of Formula I of the present invention.

In the compounds of structural Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominately found in nature. The present invention as described and claimed herein is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of structural Formula I and embodiments thereof. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium 1H and deuterium H also denoted herein as D . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within structural Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

It will be understood that as used herein references to the compounds of structural Formula I are meant to also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. and also salts that are not pharmaceutically acceptable when they are used as precursors to the free compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts or in other synthetic manipulations. The compounds of the present invention including the compounds of the Examples also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of physiologically acceptable salts.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts of basic compounds encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid. Representative salts of basic compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to the following acetate ascorbate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynaphthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate methanesulfonate mucate napsylate nitrate N methylglucamine ammonium salt oleate oxalate pamoate embonate palmitate pantothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate propionate salicylate stearate sulfate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate thiocyanate tosylate triethiodide valerate and the like. Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include but are not limited to salts derived from inorganic bases including aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic mangamous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines cyclic amines dicyclohexyl amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like. If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in amorphous form and or one or more crystalline forms and as such all amorphous and crystalline forms and mixtures thereof of the compounds of Formula I including the Examples are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water i.e. a hydrate or common organic solvents such as but not limited to ethyl acetate. Such solvates and hydrates particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable solvates and hydrates of the instant compounds are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention along with un solvated and anhydrous forms.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modification of a compound of this invention which results in conversion in vivo to a compound within the scope of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. For example esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid COOH group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Similarly labile amides can be made. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters or amides of the compounds of this invention may be prepared to act as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to an acid or COO depending on the pH of the fluid or tissue where conversion takes place or hydroxy form particularly in vivo and as such are encompassed within the scope of this invention. Included are those esters and acyl groups known in the art for modifying the solubility or hydrolysis characteristics for use as sustained release or prodrug formulations. Also in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH or alcohol group being present in the compounds of the present invention pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acid derivatives such as methyl ethyl or pivaloyloxymethyl or acyl derivatives of alcohols such as O acetyl O pivaloyl O benzoyl and O aminoacyl can be employed.

Accordingly the compounds within the generic structural formulas embodiments and specific compounds described in the Examples and claimed herein encompass salts all possible stereoisomers and tautomers physical forms e.g. amorphous and crystalline forms solvate and hydrate forms thereof and any combination of these forms as well as the salts pro drug forms thereof and salts of pro drug forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

The present invention also relates to processes for the preparation of the compounds of Formula I which are described in the following and by which the compounds of the invention are obtainable.

The compounds of Formula I according to the invention effect an increase of cGMP concentration via the activation of the soluble guanylate cyclase sGC and they are therefore useful agents for the therapy and prophylaxis of disorders which are associated with a low or decreased cGMP level or which are caused thereby or for whose therapy or prophylaxis an increase of the present cGMP level is desired. The activation of the sGC by the compounds of Formula I can be examined for example in the activity assay described below.

The terms therapeutically effective or efficacious amount and similar descriptions such as an amount efficacious for treatment are intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The terms prophylactically effective or efficacious amount and similar descriptions such as an amount efficacious for prevention are intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. As an example the dosage a patient receives can be selected so as to achieve the desired reduction in blood pressure the dosage a patient receives may also be titrated over time in order to reach a target blood pressure. The dosage regimen utilizing a compound of the instant invention is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including type species age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition to be treated the potency of the compound chosen to be administered the route of administration and the renal and hepatic function of the patient. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of myocardial infarction.

Disorders and pathological conditions which are associated with a low cGMP level or in which an increase of the cGMP level is desired and for whose therapy and prophylaxis it is possible to use compounds of Formula I are for example cardiovascular diseases such as endothelial dysfunction diastolic dysfunction atherosclerosis hypertension heart failure pulmonary hypertension which includes pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH stable and unstable angina pectoris thrombosis restenosis myocardial infarction strokes cardiac insufficiency or pulmonary hypertonia or for example erectile dysfunction asthma bronchiale chronic kidney disease and diabetes. Compounds of Formula I can additionally be used in the therapy of cirrhosis of the liver and also for improving a restricted memory performance or ability to learn.

The compounds of Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be administered to animals preferably to mammals and in particular to humans as pharmaceuticals by themselves in mixtures with one another or in the form of pharmaceutical preparations. The term patient includes animals preferably mammals and especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of or desire treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may be in need of or desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of said disease or medical condition. As used herein a patient in need of treatment of an existing condition or of prophylactic treatment encompasses both a determination of need by a medical professional as well as the desire of a patient for such treatment.

A subject of the present invention therefore also are the compounds of Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts for use as pharmaceuticals their use for activating soluble guanylate cyclase for normalizing a disturbed cGMP balance and in particular their use in the therapy and prophylaxis of the abovementioned syndromes as well as their use for preparing medicaments for these purposes.

A therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. A prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of myocardial infarction.

Furthermore a subject of the present invention are pharmaceutical preparations or pharmaceutical compositions which comprise as active component an effective dose of at least one compound of Formula I and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a customary pharmaceutically acceptable carrier i.e. one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier substances and or additives.

Thus a subject of the invention are for example said compound and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts for use as a pharmaceutical pharmaceutical preparations which comprise as active component an effective dose of said compound and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a customary pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and the uses of said compound and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the therapy or prophylaxis of the abovementioned syndromes as well as their use for preparing medicaments for these purposes.

The pharmaceuticals according to the invention can be administered orally for example in the form of pills tablets lacquered tablets sugar coated tablets granules hard and soft gelatin capsules aqueous alcoholic or oily solutions syrups emulsions or suspensions or rectally for example in the form of suppositories. Administration can also be carried out parenterally for example subcutaneously intramuscularly or intravenously in the form of solutions for injection or infusion. Other suitable administration forms are for example percutaneous or topical administration for example in the form of ointments tinctures sprays or transdermal therapeutic systems or the inhalative administration in the form of nasal sprays or aerosol mixtures or for example microcapsules implants or rods. The preferred administration form depends for example on the disease to be treated and on its severity.

The amount of active compound of Formula I and or its pharmaceutically acceptable salts in the pharmaceutical preparations normally is from 0.2 to 200 mg preferably from 1 to 200 mg per dose but depending on the type of the pharmaceutical preparation it can also be higher. The pharmaceutical preparations usually comprise 0.5 to 90 percent by weight of the compounds of Formula I and or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts. The preparation of the pharmaceutical preparations can be carried out in a manner known per se. For this purpose one or more compounds of Formula I and or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts together with one or more solid or liquid pharmaceutical carrier substances and or additives or auxiliary substances and if desired in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds having therapeutic or prophylactic action are brought into a suitable administration form or dosage form which can then be used as a pharmaceutical in human or veterinary medicine.

For the production of pills tablets sugar coated tablets and hard gelatin capsules it is possible to use for example lactose starch for example maize starch or starch derivatives talc stearic acid or its salts etc. Carriers for soft gelatin capsules and suppositories are for example fats waxes semisolid and liquid polyols natural or hardened oils etc. Suitable carriers for the preparation of solutions for example of solutions for injection or of emulsions or syrups are for example water physiologically sodium chloride solution alcohols such as ethanol glycerol polyols sucrose invert sugar glucose mannitol vegetable oils etc. It is also possible to lyophilize the compounds of Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts and to use the resulting lyophilisates for example for preparing preparations for injection or infusion. Suitable carriers for microcapsules implants or rods are for example copolymers of glycolic acid and lactic acid.

Besides the active compounds and carriers the pharmaceutical preparations can also contain customary additives for example fillers disintegrants binders lubricants wetting agents stabilizers emulsifiers dispersants preservatives sweeteners colorants flavorings aromatizers thickeners diluents buffer substances solvents solubilizers agents for achieving a depot effect salts for altering the osmotic pressure coating agents or antioxidants.

The dosage of the active compound of Formula I and or of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to be administered depends on the individual case and is as is customary to be adapted to the individual circumstances to achieve an optimum effect. Thus it depends on the nature and the severity of the disorder to be treated and also on the sex age weight and individual responsiveness of the human or animal to be treated on the efficacy and duration of action of the compounds used on whether the therapy is acute or chronic or prophylactic or on whether other active compounds are administered in addition to compounds of Formula I. In general a daily dose of approximately 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably 0.01 to 10 mg kg in particular 0.3 to 5 mg kg in each case mg per kg of bodyweight is appropriate for administration to an adult weighing approximately 75 kg in order to obtain the desired results. The daily dose can be administered in a single dose or in particular when larger amounts are administered be divided into several for example two three or four individual doses. In some cases depending on the individual response it may be necessary to deviate upwards or downwards from the given daily dose. A single daily dose is preferred.

The compounds of Formula I activate soluble guanylate cyclase. On account of this property apart from use as pharmaceutically active compounds in human medicine and veterinary medicine they can also be employed as a scientific tool or as an aid for biochemical investigations in which such an effect on soluble guanylate cyclase is intended and also for diagnostic purposes for example in the in vitro diagnosis of cell samples or tissue samples. The compounds of Formula I and salts thereof can furthermore be employed as already mentioned above as intermediates for the preparation of other pharmaceutically active compounds.

One or more additional pharmacologically active agents may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I. An additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents that is active in the body including pro drugs that convert to pharmaceutically active form after administration which are different from the compound of Formula I and also includes free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said additional active agents. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti hypertensive agents anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents . Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril angiotensin II receptor antagonists e.g. losartan i.e. COZAAR valsartan candesartan olmesartan telmesartan and any of these drugs used in combination with hydrochlorothiazide such as HYZAAR neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists aldosterone synthase inhibitors renin inhibitors e.g. urea derivatives of di and tri peptides See U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 835 amino acids and derivatives U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 095 119 and 5 104 869 amino acid chains linked by non peptidic bonds U.S. Pat. No. 5 114 937 di and tri peptide derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 106 835 peptidyl amino diols U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 063 208 and 4 845 079 and peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates U.S. Pat. No. 5 089 471 also a variety of other peptide analogs as disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 and small molecule renin inhibitors including diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 924 N morpholino derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 466 N heterocyclic alcohols U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 292 and pyrolimidazolones U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 451 also pepstatin derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 283 and fluoro and chloro derivatives of statone containing peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 643 enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors e.g. sildenafil tadalfil and vardenafil vasodilators calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine veraparmil diltiazem gallopamil niludipine nimodipins nicardipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. propranolol atenolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol or metoprolol tartate alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone pro drug form and function as inhibitors after administration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL and fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as ezetimibe ZETIA and ezetimibe in combination with any other lipid lowering agents such as the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors noted above and particularly with simvastatin e.g. VYTORIN or with atorvastatin calcium e.g. LIPTRUZET niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds e.g. muraglitazar glipizide metformin rosiglitazone or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including nitroprusside and diazoxide the free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms of the above active agents where chemically possible.

The following examples are provided so that the invention might be more fully understood. Unless otherwise indicated the starting materials are commercially available. They should not be construed as limiting the invention in any way.

Several methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are described in the following Schemes and Examples. Starting materials and intermediates are purchased made from known procedures or as otherwise illustrated. Some frequently applied routes to the compounds of Formula I are also described by the Schemes as follows. In some cases the order of carrying out the steps of reaction schemes may be varied to facilitate the reaction or to avoid unwanted reaction products. The R and X groups in the Schemes correspond to the variables defined in Formula I at the same positions on the structures. Compounds 1a 6d and 8a which each have a CH Rmoiety are used for illustration purposes in Schemes 1 6 and 8 but analogs of each compound having CRRRin place of CH Rcan likewise be employed resulting in downstream intermediates and final products containing the corresponding CRRRmoiety.

Conversion of the nitrile 1a to the amidine 1b can be accomplished with a reagent such as amino chloro methylaluminum prepared from trimethylaluminum and ammonium chloride in a non polar solvent such as toluene at 100 C. as described by Garigipati R. S. et al 1990 31 14 1969. The reaction may also be carried out on the corresponding methyl ester of compound 1a. Reaction of compound 1b with the amidine 1c in an alcoholic solvent such as MeOH n BuOH or t BuOH and a base such as NaOMe NaOEt t BuOK KCO KHCO or NaHCOat 90 C. to 150 C. affords the pyrimidine lactam 1d. The reaction may also be carried out in the absence of a base. Additionally the reaction may also be carried out on the corresponding ethyl or propyl ester of compound 1c.

The preparation of compound 2d is outlined in Scheme 2. Deprotonation of ester 2a using a base such as LiHMDS NaHMDS NaH or LDA in a solvent such as THF or DMF followed by treatment with methyl iodide affords the ester 2b. The esters 2a and 2b may be prepared from the corresponding carboxylic acid by treatment with trimethylsilyl diazomethane or MeOH with catalytic sulfuric acid. Alternatively the esters 2a and 2b may be prepared by the heteroarylation of esters as described by Buchwald S. L. et al 2009 11 8 1773 or by Shen H. C. et al 2006 8 7 1447. Compounds 2a and 2b where Ris 5 membered ring heterocycle may be prepared using methods familiar to those skilled in the art. For example compound 2a where Ris a 2 methyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl group may be prepared by the condensation of methyl chloroacetoacetate and acetamide. Compound 2b where Ris a 3 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl group may be prepared from dimethyl methyl malonate using the procedure described by Du W. et al 2006 47 25 4271. Compound 2b where Ris a 5 methyl 1 3 oxazol 2 yl group may be prepared from dimethyl methyl malonate using the procedure described by Hashmi A. S. K. et al 2004 6 23 4391. In another example compound 2b where Ris a 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl group may be prepared by the reaction of methyl 2 methylcyanoacetate with hydroxylamine and acetic anhydride. The compound 2c is prepared by treating compound 2b with a brominating reagent such as NBS and AIBN in a solvent such as carbon tetrachloride at refluxing temperatures. Alternatively the compound 2c may be prepared by reaction with NBS and magnesium perchlorate in acetonitrile solvent at RT as described by Yang D. et al 2002 67 21 7429. Compound 2c may also be prepared by treating compound 6 with a base such as sodium hydride or LHMDS followed by treatment with NBS. Compound 2d is obtained from 2c by reaction with malononitrile and a base such as sodium hydride t BuOK KCOor DBU in a solvent such as THF or DMF at ambient temperature to 100 C. The synthetic sequence depicted in Scheme 2 may also be used to prepare the corresponding ethyl or propyl ester of compound 2d.

The preparation of 3e is outlined in Scheme 3 above. Starting with commercially available 2 methyl 1 3 4 thiadiazole 3a bromination of the unsubstituted position of the thiadiazole with sodium nitrite and bromine affords 3b. Subsequent CuI mediated cross coupling with diethyl malonate in the presence of 3c followed by decarboxylation affords afforded ester 3d. Ester 3d could be further elaborated to 3e via the sequence outlined in Scheme 2 starting from intermediate 2a.

The preparation of 4d is outlined in Scheme 4 above. Starting with readily prepared ethyl 2 1H tetrazol 5 yl propanoate prepared analogous to 1996 39 12 2354 from commercially available 2 ethyl 2 cyanopropanoate treatment with the desired carbonyl anhydride while heating in toluene affords the substituted oxadiazole 4c. Subsequent elaboration to 4d is achieved analogous to the conversion of 2b to 2d outlined in Scheme 2.

In addition to the methods described in Scheme 2 for the synthesis of intermediates of the generic structure 2d similar compounds of the generic structure 5b depicted as the ethyl ester may also be prepared as shown in Scheme 3. Reaction of a suitable alkyl R magnesium halide or heteroaryl R magnesium halide with or without lithium chloride additive or the lithiate of heteroaryl reagents derived via metal halogen exchange or deprotonation with the dicyanopropenoate 5a or 5c in a solvent such as THF affords compound 5b. Cycloalkyl R magnesium halides are also suitable reagents for this reaction. Compound 5a Ris COEt can be prepared using the procedure described by Sentman et. al. 1982 47 4577. Compound 5c R Me can be prepared using the procedure described by Hagiware et. al. 1974 9 669. Other analogs of this type R alkyl can be prepared in a similar fashion.

Compounds with structure 6g may be prepared by the sequence depicted in Scheme 6. Commercially available 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 6a can be converted the amide 6b by treatment with concentrated sulfuric acid which can then be coupled to a suitable ester 6d in the presence of a base such as sodium ethoxide NaOEt to afford 6e. Treatment of 6e with either neat phosphorous oxychloride or in a mixture of DCE and phosphorous oxychloride affords 6f. Finally the nitrile 6g can be prepared by treatment of the chloride 6f with zinc cyanide in the presence of a suitable catalyst such as Pd dba and a ligand such as dppf in a polar solvent such a DMF.

Compounds with structure 7e may be prepared by the sequence depicted in Scheme 7. Thus treatment of tert butyl carbazate 7a with a suitable base such as solid NaHMDS in a solvent such as THF at ambient temperature followed by the addition of iodomethane dat 0 C. affords the desired product 7a which upon treatment with 2 ethoxymethylene malononitrile in the presence of TFA and an alcoholic solvent such as EtOH under refluxing conditions affords the desired product 5 Amino 1 methyl d3 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 7d which can be elaborated to 7e using the procedures described for conversion of 6a to 6g in Schemes 6.

Compounds with structure 8h may be prepared by the sequence depicted in Scheme 8. Conversion of an appropriately substituted acid 8a to the amidine 8b can be accomplished with a reagent such as amino chloro methylaluminum prepared from trimethylaluminum and ammonium chloride in a non polar solvent such as toluene. Treatment of 8b with ethyl 2 cyano 4 4 diethoxybutanoate 8c under refluxing conditions in an alcoholic solvent such as EtOH and suitable base such as sodium ethoxide affords the pyrimidine 8d. De protection of the acetal under standard conditions such as TFA in EtOH at RT results in ring cyclization to afford 8e which can be converted to 8f by refluxing in phosphorous oxychloride. Alkylation of the NH can be accomplished using a suitable alkyl halide and a base such as sodium hydride in a suitable solvent such as DMF to give 8g. Finally conversion of the chloride 8g to the nitrile 8h can be accomplished either by treatment of 8g with potassium cyanide in DMSO or treatment of 8g with zinc cyanide in the presence of a suitable catalyst such as Pd dba and a ligand such as dppf in a polar solvent such a DMF.

Compounds with structure 9c may be prepared by the sequence depicted in Scheme 9. Structure 9a can be formed analogous to the conversion of 1b to 1d as outlined in Scheme 1. Treatment of an intermediate of type 9a with hydrazine forms the acyl hydrazide intermediate 9b. Acylation of the primary amino group of the acyl hydrazide with an appropriate acylation reagent bearing the desired Rsubstitution forms an acyclic bis acylated intermediate that can be subsequently cyclized in the presence of phosphoric acid en route to 9c.

Compounds with structure 10c may be prepared by the sequence depicted in Scheme 10. Structure 10a can be formed analogous to the conversion of 1b to 1d as outlined in Scheme 1. Treatment of alkyne 10a with a suitable alkyl azide that is either commercially available or formed in situ in the presence of a suitable copper source affords triazoles 10b. When Ris equal to a proton the material can subsequently be treated with a alkyl halide and base to access the internally substituted triazoles 10c.

Compounds of the present invention possess an asymmetric center at the carbon bearing the Rsubstituent which can be either R or S configuration. These enantiomeric mixtures may be separated or resolved to single enantiomers using chiral SFC chromatography. Racemic material can be resolved to enantiomerically pure compounds at the final step or one of the earlier steps in the route. For example intermediates 9a 9b or 9c in Scheme 9 can undergo chiral resolution to afford enantiopure isomers that may be carried on in the sequence to enantiomerically pure compounds. Alternatively enantiomeric resolution can be performed prior to the transformation of 1b to 1d. For example chiral resolution of intermediates of the type 1c 2d 3e 4d and 5b to single enantiomers may be further elaborated to enantiopure compounds of the type 1d 9a and 10a without additional chiral resolution. Characterization data may be of the chiral or racemic material. Unless otherwise noted the examples in the present invention are enantiomerically pure isomers R or S . Biochemical assay data is listed for the more active enantiomer if only one of the enantiomers is active.

The independent synthesis of diastereomers and enantiomers or their chromatographic separations may be achieved as known in the art by appropriate modification of the methodology disclosed herein. Their absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute stereochemistry or by vibrational circular dichroism VCD spectroscopy.

Throughout the synthetic schemes and examples abbreviations and acronyms may be used with the following meanings unless otherwise indicated 

The following examples are provided to more fully illustrate the present invention and shall not be construed as limiting the scope in any manner. Unless stated otherwise the following conditions were employed. All operations were carried out at RT that is at a temperature in the range 18 25 C. Reactions are generally done using commercially available anhydrous solvents under an inert atmosphere either nitrogen or argon. Microwave reactions were done using a Biotage Initiator or CEM Explorer system. Evaporation of solvent was carried out using a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure 4.5 30 mmHg with a bath temperature of up to 50 C. The course of reactions was followed by TLC and or tandem high HPLC followed by electron spray mass spectroscopy MS herein termed LCMS and any reaction times are given for illustration only. The structure of all final compounds was assured by at least one of the following techniques MS or proton nuclear magnetic resonance 1H NMR spectrometry and the purity was assured by at least one of the following techniques TLC or HPLC. H NMR spectra were recorded on either a Varian Unity or a Varian Inova instrument at 400 500 or 600 MHz using the indicated solvent when line listed NMR data is in the form of delta values for major diagnostic protons given in parts per million ppm relative to residual solvent peaks multiplicity and number of hydrogens conventional abbreviations used for signal shape are s. singlet d. doublet apparent t. triplet apparent m. multiplet br. broad etc. MS data were recorded on a Waters Micromass unit interfaced with a Hewlett Packard Agilent 1100 HPLC instrument and operating on MassLynx OpenLynx software electrospray ionization was used with positive ES or negative ion ES detection and diode array detection. Purification of compounds by preparative reverse phase HPLC was performed on a Gilson system using a YMC Pack Pro C18 column 150 20 mm i.d. eluting at 20 mL min with a water acetonitrile 0.1 TFA gradient typically 5 acetonitrile to 95 acetonitrile using a Sunfire Prep C18 OBD 5 M column 100 30 mm i.d. eluting at 50 mL min with a water acetonitrile 0.1 TFA gradient. Purification of compounds by preparative thin layer chromatography PTLC was conducted on 20 20 cm glass plates coated with silica gel commercially available from Analtech or E. Merck. Flash column chromatography was carried out on a glass silica gel column using Kieselgel 60 0.063 0.200 mm SiO or on a Biotage SiOcartridge system using the Biotage Horizon and Biotage SP 1 systems or a Teledyne Isco SiOcartridge using the CombiFlashRf system.

The following are representative procedures for the preparation of intermediates used to prepare the final products described in the Examples that follow thereafter. These examples are provided for the purpose of further illustration only and are not intended to be limitations on the disclosed invention.

It is understood that a chiral center in a compound may exist in the S or R stereo configurations or as a mixture of both. In some of the examples for intermediate compounds and final compounds such compounds having a racemic chiral center were separated into individual stereoisomers for example referred to as isomer A or enantiomer A or the like which refers to the observed faster eluting isomer and isomer B or enantiomer B or the like which refers to the observed slower eluting isomer and each such isomer may be noted in the example as either the fast or slow eluting isomer. When a single A or B isomer intermediate is used to prepare a downstream compound the downstream compound may take the A or B designation that corresponds to the previously used intermediate.

Any Intermediates described below may be referred to herein by their number preceded by I . For illustration in the example titled Intermediate 2 the racemic parent title compound would be referred to as Intermediate 2 or 1 2 and the separated stereoisomers are noted as Intermediates 2A and 2B or I 2A and I 2B . In some examples compounds having a chiral center were derived synthetically from a single isomer intermediate e.g. Example 1 was made using stereoisomer I 2B. Absolute stereochemistry R or S of each of the separated isomers was not determined unless specifically described otherwise. An asterisk may be used in a chemical structure drawing that indicates the location of a chiral center.

Methyl 2 pyridylacetate 6.81 mL 50 mmol was added dropwise to LHMDS 1.0M in THF 50 mL and THF 65 mL cooled to 0 C. After 30 min iodomethane 3.97 g 63.5 mmol was added to the solution. After stirring for 1 h at 0 C. the solution was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

Magnesium perchlorate 0.46 g 2.08 mmol was added to an acetonitrile 18 mL solution containing the intermediate from Step A 1.04 g 6.30 mmol . After stirring for 5 min NBS 1.35 g 7.55 mmol was added and the reaction solution was stirred at RT overnight. The solution was then partitioned between EtOAc and 1N aq. NaHCOsolution. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

A DMF 7 mL solution of malononitrile 0.413 g 6.24 mmol was added to a suspension of NaH 0.252 g 6.30 mmol 60 in DMF 9 mL cooled to 0 C. After 10 min a DMF 7 mL solution of the intermediate from Step B 1.438 g 5.89 mmol was added. The reaction solution was then stirred overnight at RT. The solution was then partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to obtain the title racemic product. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.59 1H d J 4.8 Hz 7.79 1H td J 7.7 1.8 Hz 7.50 1H d J 8.0 Hz 7.32 1H dd J 7.6 4.8 Hz 5.25 1H s 3.77 3H s 2.01 3H s . m z 230.2 M H . The racemic material was resolved by chiral SFC IA H column CO MeOH MeCN to obtain isomer I 1A faster eluting and isomer I 1B slower eluting .

Into a 1 L round bottom flask was placed 2 bromo 5 fluoropyridine 20 g 113.65 mmol 1.0 equiv 1 3 diethyl propanedioate 54.5 g 340.27 mmol 3.0 equiv picolinic acid 5.6 g 45.53 mmol 0.4 equiv CsCO 143 g 438.65 mmol 4.0 equiv CuI 4.3 g 22.58 mmol 0.2 equiv dioxane 500 mL . The resulting solution was stirred for 12 h at 100 C. in an oil bath. The resulting solution was quenched by the addition of 300 mL of water. The resulting solution was extracted with 2 200 mL of EtOAc and the organic layers combined and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 0 20 to give the title compound.

Into a 100 mL 3 necked round bottom flask was placed intermediates from Step A 46 g crude NaCl 20 g water 6 mL DMSO 90 mL . The resulting solution was stirred for 3 h at 180 C. in an oil bath. The resulting solution was diluted with 500 mL of EtOAc washed with 5 80 mL of water and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 0 20 to give the title compound.

Into a 500 mL round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed THF 200 mL LiHMDS 45 mL 1.1 equiv 1.0 M . This was followed by dropwise addition of the intermediate from Step B 7.5 g 40.9 mmol 1.0 equiv with stirring at 0 C. After stirring the resulting solution for 1 h at 0 C. a solution of iodomethane 5.82 g 41.0 mmol 1.0 equiv in THF 10 mL was added dropwise with stirring at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 3 h at 0 C. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of 200 mL of water. The resulting solution was extracted with 3 200 mL of EtOAc and the organic layers combined and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 0 20 to afford the title compound

Into a 100 mL round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was added the intermediate from Step C 1 g 5.07 mmol 1.0 equiv and THF 50 mL . This was followed by the addition of LiHMDS 5 mL 1.2 equiv 1.0M dropwise with stirring at 78 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 30 min at 78 C. Then NBS 1.27 g 7.14 mmol 1.4 equiv in THF 10 mL was added. The resulting solution was warmed to RT and stirred for 1 h. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of 50 mL of water. The resulting solution was extracted with 3 50 mL of EtOAc and the organic layers combined and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The residue purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 0 10 to afford the title compound.

Into a 50 mL round bottom flask was placed DMF 20 mL sodium hydride 260 mg 6.5 mmol 1.9 equiv 60 . This was followed by the addition of malononitrile 460 mg 6.96 mmol 2.0 equiv dropwise with stirring at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. To this was added the intermediate from Step D 950 mg 3.44 mmol 1.0 equiv in DMF dropwise with stirring at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 1 h at RT. The resulting solution was quenched with 200 mL of water and extracted with 300 mL of EtOAc. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The residue purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 0 20 . The racemic material was resolved using a chiral SFC IA column to afford isomer I 2A faster eluting and isomer I 2B slower eluting of the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 1.22 1.27 t J 6.9 Hz 3H 2.002 s 3H 4.19 4.29 m 2H 5.17 s 1H 7.47 7.57 m 2H 8.44 8.45 dd J 0.9 2.4 Hz 1H .

To a screw cap pressure vessel was added acetamide oxime 0.900 g 12.2 mmol and dimethyl methyl malonate 3.55 g 24.3 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 140 C. for 4 h. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

The intermediate from Step A 0.765 g 4.50 mmol NBS 0.960 g 5.39 mmol and AIBN 0.037 g 0.225 mmol in 20 mL of CClwas refluxed for 2 h. The mixture was cooled to RT filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product

To NaH 0.525 g 13.1 mmol 60 in 10 mL of DMF at 0 C. was added dropwise malononitrile 0.867 g 13.1 mmol in 10 mL of DMF. After stirring at RT for 20 min the intermediate from Step B 2.97 g 11.92 mmol in 5 mL of DMF was added. The resulting mixture was stirred for 3 h. The solution was then quenched with saturated aq. NHCl. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc dried with MgSO and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 4.83 1H s 3.91 3H s 2.48 3H s 2.10 3H s .

A mixture of acetamide 1.312 g 22.21 mmol and methyl chloroacetoacetate in 20 mL of 1 4 dioxane and 20 mL of toluene was heated at 120 C. for 4 h. The solution was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

To the intermediate from Step A 1.35 g 8.71 mmol and HMPA 6.24 g 34.8 mmol in 10 mL of THF at 78 C. was added dropwise an LDA solution 2.0 M 5.22 mL 10.5 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min and MeI 1.48 g 10.45 mmol was added dropwise. The resulting mixture was slowly warmed to RT. The reaction was quenched with saturated aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with brine dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

A mixture of the intermediate from Step B 2.336 g 13.81 mmol NBS 2.458 g 13.81 mmol and AIBN 0.113 g 0.690 mmol in 50 mL of CClwas refluxed for 1 h. The mixture was cooled to RT filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

To NaH 60 0.293 g 7.32 mmol in 10 mL of DMF at RT was added dropwise malononitrile 0.483 g 7.32 mmol in 5 mL of DMF. After stirring at RT for 15 min the intermediate from Step C 1.82 g 7.32 mmol in 10 mL of DMF was added. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 h at RT and then quenched with water. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.66 1H s 4.88 1H s 3.87 3H s 2.49 3H s 1.92 3H s . m z 234 M H .

Ethyl 2 methylcyanoacetate 5 g 39 mmol and hydroxylamine 2.6 g 39 mmol were dissolved in 50 mL of MeOH. The solution was heated at the 50 C. overnight. The solution was then concentrated and the residue purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

Acetic anhydride 4.6 mL 49 mmol was added to a pyridine 50 mL solution of the intermediate from Step A 2.6 g 16.2 mmol . The solution was heated at reflux for 1 h and then at RT overnight. The solution was then concentrated to remove most of the pyridine. The concentrated solution was diluted with EtOAc and washed twice with water. The organic layer was concentrated and the residue purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

A CCl 30 mL solution containing the intermediate from Step B 1.9 g 10.3 mmol NBS 3.56 g 20 mmol and AIBN 0.1 g was heated at reflux for 4 h. The solution was cooled to RT filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

DBU 2.56 mL 8.1 mmol was added dropwise to a 78 C. THF 20 mL solution of malononitrile 1.12 g 17 mmol and the intermediate from Step C 1.49 g 5.66 mmol . The reaction solution was stirred at 78 C. for 15 min and then at RT for 1 h. The solution was then concentrated and the residue purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to afford the title product as the racemate. H NMR ppm CHCl d 4.79 1H s 4.30 2H dd J 7.1 2.6 Hz 2.64 3H s 2.02 3H s 1.31 1.25 3H m .

t Butyl methyl malonate 12.35 g 71.0 mmol and N hydroxycyclopropanecarboximidamide 3.55g 35.5 mmol were combined and the reaction was heated to 120 C. for 5 h. The reaction was cooled to RT and directly purified by silica chromatography using a 0 to 30 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to afford the title product.

The title compound was prepared analogous to steps B through D of I 5. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.79 1H s 3.90 3H s 2.18 2.12 1H m 2.07 3H s 1.17 1.07 4H m .

2 2 Bromopyridin 4 yl acetic acid 5 g 23.1 mmol benzene 40.5 ml and MeOH 5.8 ml were added to a 250 mL flask then trimethylsilyldiazomethane 11.6 ml 23.1 mmol 2 M was added dropwise over 5 min. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 afforded the title compound.

The intermediate from Step A 2g 8.7 mmol Pd OAc 0.468 g 2.1 mmol DMF 43.5 ml and dppf 2.31 g 4.17 mmol were added to a 100 mL flask. The flask was purged with Nthree times. Hunig s base 7.59 ml 43.5 mmol and MeOH 31.7 ml 782 mmol were added via syringe. The flask was purged with Nthree times then was switched to a balloon with CO gas. The flask was vacuumed and refilled with CO three times and was heated to 75 C. under CO balloon 1 atm for 4 h. The reaction was cooled to RT and diluted with EtOAc 50 mL then filtered through a syringe filter. The filtrate was washed with water 50 mL brine 50 mL dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 afforded the title product.

LHMDS 5.26 ml 5.26 mmol 1 M was added to a 40 mL vial and cooled down to 0 C. under N. The Intermediate from Step B 1.1 g 5.26 mmol in THF 10.5 ml was added dropwise via syringe over 10 min and stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. Neat MeI 0.329 ml 5.26 mmol was added via syringe dropwise. After stirring at 0 C. for 45 min the reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 afforded the title product.

To a 100 mL flask intermediate from Step C 600 mg 2.15 mmol 80 acetonitrile 13.4 mL magnesium perchlorate 316 mg 1.4 mmol were added and stirred at RT for 5 min. NBS 928 mg 5.2 mmol was added and heated to 50 C. for 48 h. The reaction was cooled to RT diluted with EtOAc 50 mL washed with NaHCOsaturated solution 30 mL brine 30 mL dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 afforded the title product.

Sodium hydride 53.7 mg 1.34 mmol and DMF 5 mL were added to a 40 mL vial and cooled down to 0 C. under N. Malononitrile 89 mg 1.34 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added dropwise over 5 min and the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 15 min. The intermediate from Step D 390 mg 1.03 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added dropwise over 5 min. The reaction was warmed up slowly to RT over 3 h. The reaction was quenched by ice cold NHCl saturated solution 50 mL then extracted with EtOAc 50 mL . The organic phase was washed with brine 50 mL dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.89 1H d J 5.0 Hz 8.17 1H d J 2.0 Hz 7.53 1H dd J 5.0 2.0 Hz 4.60 1H s 4.07 3H s 3.88 3H s 2.09 3H s m z 288.01 M 1 .

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask were placed 5 methyl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 amine 20.0 g 173.68 mmol 1.0 equiv and HBr HO 50 mL . This was followed by the addition of Br 50 mL dropwise with stirring at 0 C. To this was added a solution of NaNO 30.4 g 440.58 mmol 2.5 equiv in water 50 mL dropwise with stirring at 0 10 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. in a water ice bath. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of NaSO sat. 100 mL . The pH value of the solution was adjusted to 8 9 with sodium hydroxide 4 N . The resulting solution was extracted with DCM 3 500 mL and the organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness to afford the title product.

Into a 1 L 3 necked round bottom flask were placed the intermediate from Step A 23 g 128.46 mmol 1.0 equiv 1 3 diethyl propanedioate 62.0 g 387.1 mmol 3.0 equiv CsCO 168 g 515.34 mmol 4.0 equiv CuI 4.9 g 25.73 mmol 0.2 equiv pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 6.36 g 51.66 mmol 0.4 equiv and dioxane 400 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 16 h at 100 C. in an oil bath. The solid was filtered out. The resulting mixture was diluted with EtOAc 1 L washed with brine 3 500 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 1 20 to give the title product.

Into a 250 mL round bottom flask were placed the intermediate from Step B 12 g 46.46 mmol 1.0 equiv DMSO 150 mL NaCl 5.4 g 92.4 mmol 2.0 equiv and water 1.68 g 2.0 equiv . The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at 180 C. in an oil bath. The resulting solution was diluted with EtOAc 1 L . The resulting mixture was washed with brine 3 300 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using DCM MeOH 30 1 to afford the title product.

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of LiHMDS 5.4 mL 1 N in THF 1.0 equiv in THF 50 mL . This was followed by the addition of the intermediate from Step C 1.0 g 5.37 mmol 1.0 equiv dropwise with stirring at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. To this was added a solution of iodomethane 760 mg 5.35 mmol 1.0 equiv in THF 50 mL dropwise with stirring at 20 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 2 h at 20 C. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of NHCl sat. 200 mL . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 2 1 to afford the title product.

Into a 100 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of the intermediate from Step D 300 mg 1.5 mmol 1.0 equiv in THF 20 mL . This was followed by the addition of LiHMDS 1.8 mL 1 N in THF 1.2 equiv dropwise with stirring at 78 C. in 30 min. To this was added NBS 374 mg 2.1 mmol 1.4 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 1 h at RT. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of NHCl sat. 100 mL . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 1 5 to give the title product.

Into a 8 mL round bottom flask were placed the intermediate from Step E 350 mg 1.25 mmol 1.0 equiv malononitrile 165 mg 2.5 mmol 2.0 equiv DMSO 4 mL potassium carbonate 173 mg 1.24 mmol 1.0 equiv and THF 1 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. in a water ice bath. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of brine 10 mL . The pH value of the solution was adjusted to 3 4 with aq. HCl 1 N . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was applied onto a silica gel column with DCM petroleum ether 1 1 . The racemic material was resolved via chiral chromatography IA column to afford isomers I 8A faster eluting and I 8B slower eluting MS ES m z 265 M 1 

Into a 100 mL round bottom flask were placed a solution of ethyl 2 1H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl propanoate prepared analogous to 1996 39 12 2354 from commercially available 2 ethyl 2 cyanopropanoate 5 g 29.38 mmol 1.0 equiv in toluene 20 mL . This was followed by the addition of acetyl acetate 4.5 g 44.08 mmol 1.3 equiv in toluene 10 mL dropwise with stirring at RT. The resulting solution was stirred 16 h at 110 C. The pH value of the solution was adjusted to 8 with sodium carbonate sat. . The resulting solution was extracted with DCM 3 100 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtrated. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 3 1 to afford the title product

Into a 100 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of the intermediate from Step A 3.5 g 19.0 mmol 1.0 equiv in THF 30 mL . This was followed by the addition of LiHMDS 3.8 g 22.71 mmol 1.2 equiv dropwise with stirring at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. To this was added NBS 4.7 g 1.40 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 0.5 h at 0 C. and additional 0.5 h at 25 C. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of sodium thiosulfatepentahydrate sat. 50 mL . The resulting solution was extracted with ether 3 100 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtrated. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 3 1 to give the title product

Into a 100 mL round bottom flask were placed the intermediate from Step B 2.7 g 10.26 mmol 1.0 equiv propanedinitrile 1.4 g 20.44 mmol 2.0 equiv DMSO 30 mL . This was followed by the addition of potassium carbonate 1.4g 9.98 mmol 1.0 equiv in several batches at 10 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 h at RT. The resulting mixture was quenched by the addition of water 50 mL . The pH value of the solution was adjusted to 3 4 with aq HCl 1 N . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL and the organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtrated. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 0 50 . The racemic material was resolved via chiral chromatography AD H column to afford isomers I 9A faster eluting and I 9B slower eluting . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 4.80 s 1H 4.33 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.60 s 3H 2.05 s 3H 1.31 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Into a 100 mL round bottom flask were placed ethyl 2 1H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl propanoate prepared analogous to 1996 39 12 2354 from commercially available 2 ethyl 2 cyanopropanoate 10 g 58.8 mmol 1.0 equiv and pyridine 40 mL . This was followed by the addition of cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride 8 g 76.5 mmol 1.3 equiv dropwise with stirring at ambient temperature. The resulting solution was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature and then heated to reflux for 4 h. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of water 150 mL . The resulting solution was extracted with ether 3 100 mL and the organic layers were combined washed with aq. HCl 1 N 3 100 mL and brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford the title product.

Into a 100 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of Nwere placed the intermediate from Step A 2.5 g 11.89 mmol 1.0 equiv and THF 30 mL . This was followed by the addition of LiHMDS 14.3 mL 1.2 equiv 1 N dropwise with stirring at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 0.5 h at 0 C. To this was added NBS 2.9 g 16.57 mmol 1.4 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 1.5 h at ambient temperature. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of 80 mL of NaSO sat. . The resulting solution was extracted with ether 3 100 Ml and the organic layers were combined. The resulting mixture was washed with NaSO 2 50 mL and brine 50 mL . The mixture was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford the title product.

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen were placed the intermediate from Step B 8 g 27.67 mmol 1.0 equiv DMSO 80 mL THF 20 mL and propanedinitrile 3.65 g 55.25 mmol 2.0 equiv . This was followed by the addition of potassium carbonate 3.82 g 27.64 mmol 1.0 equiv in portions at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 0.5 h at 0 C. The reaction progress was monitored by LCMS. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of water ice 200 mL . The pH value of the solution was adjusted to 5 with aq. HCl 2 N . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 4 150 mL and the organic layers were combined washed with brine 150 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using MeOH DCM 0 1 . The racemic material was resolved via chiral chromatography IA column MS ES m z 275 M 1 to afford isomers I 10A faster eluting and I 10B slower eluting .

Using essentially the same procedures described for the synthesis of Intermediates 1 to 10 the following compounds in Table 1 were made.

Diethyl 2 dicyanomethylene malonate prepared analogous to Sentman et. al. 1982 47 4577 2 g 9 mmol was dissolved in THF 23 mL and cooled to 25 C. and ethylmagnesium bromide 3.0 M 5.10 mL 15.3 mmol was added dropwise. The reaction was transferred to a 0 C. bath and stirred for an additional h. The mixture was quenched with sat d aq. ammonium chloride at 0 C. and diluted with EtOAc and water. The layers were separated and the organic layer was dried anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.42 1H s 4.30 4.32 4H m 2.24 2H d J 7.58 Hz 1.30 6H t J 7.08 Hz 1.04 3H t J 7.47 Hz .

Diethyl 2 dicyanomethylene malonate prepared analogous to Sentman et. al. 1982 47 4577 1 g 4.5 mmol was dissolved in THF 9 mL cooled to 25 C. and isopropylmagnesium chloride lithium chloride complex 1.3 M 5.19 mL 6.75 mmol was added dropwise. The reaction was stirred at 25 C. for 1 h then slowly warmed to RT over an additional 2 h. The mixture was quenched with sat d aq. ammonium chloride at RT and diluted with EtOAc and brine. The layers were separated and the organic layer was dried anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.48 1H s 4.38 4H q J 7.15 Hz 2.75 2.76 1H m 1.37 6H t J 7.18 Hz 1.17 6H d J 6.94 Hz .

A THF 45.0 ml solution of diethyl dicyanomethylidene propanedioate prepared analogous to Sentman et. al. 1982 47 4577 4.50 ml 4.5 mmol 1M solution in benzene was cooled to 0 C. and cyclopropylmagnesium bromide 9.00 ml 4.50 mmol and LiCl 0.191 g 4.5 mmol were added. The reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h and then warmed to RT while stirring for an additional 2 h. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc and quenched with saturated aq. NHCl. The layers were separated and the organic layer dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel column chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.41 1H s 4.38 4.26 4H m 1.52 1.45 1H m 1.33 6H t J 7.14 Hz 0.86 0.79 2H m 0.71 0.66 2H m .

To a flask containing anhydrous LiCl 25.8 mg 0.609 mmol in THF 1 mL was added a solution of ethynylmagnesium bromide 1.3 mL 0.64 mmol 0.5 M in THF . The reaction was stirred at RT for 25 min. The resulting solution was then quickly added dropwise via syringe to a solution of ethyl 3 3 dicyano 2 methylprop 2 enoate prepared according to Hagiware et. al. 1974 9 669 0.609 mL 0.609 mmol 1M solution in benzene in THF 22.5 mL at 10 to 20 C. The reaction was stirred for 10 min in the cooling bath then quenched with sat d aq. NHCl and then diluted with water and EtOAc. The layers were separated and the organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product. The title product was resolved via chiral chromatography OJ H to afford isomers I 18A faster eluting and I 18B slower eluting . H NMR 499 MHz CDCl 4.34 q 7.17 Hz 2H 4.31 s 1H 2.66 s 1H 1.80 s 3H 1.35 t J 7.14 Hz 3H .

A mixture of methyl 2 cyclopropyl 2 oxoacetate prepared similarly to 2007 56 1515 1521 800 mg 6.24 mmol and malononitrile 516 mg 7.8 mmol was stirred for 2 3 min. A solution of beta alanine 27.8 mg 0.312 mmol in water 535 l was added in small portions over 5 min period. The reaction was cooled in an ice bath and EtOH 350 l was added. The reaction was stirred at RT for 24 h. The reaction was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl ether. The ether layer was back extracted 2 with water. The ether layer was further diluted with EtOAc and dried over sodium sulfate . The combined organic layers were purified by silica gel column chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product.

To a flask containing anhydrous LiCl 144 mg 3.41 mmol in THF 2 mL was added a solution of ethynylmagnesium bromide 6.8 mL 3.41 mmol 0.5M in THF . The reaction was stirred at RT for 30 min. The resulting solution was cooled to 30 C. A solution of the intermediate from Step A 0.500 g 2.84 mmol in THF 5 mL was added. The reaction was stirred for 1 h in a cooling bath then raised up to RT slowly. The mixture was quenched with saturated aq. NHCl and then diluted with water and EtOAc. The layers were separated and the organic layer was dried with sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel column chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.41 1H s 3.93 3H s 2.63 1H s 1.31 1.24 1H m 1.03 0.96 1H m 0.92 0.79 2H m 0.77 0.67 1H m .

Methyl 2 oxobutanoate 15 g 129 mmol and malononitrile 12.80 g 194 mmol were added to a flask followed by the addition of 3 aminopropanoic acid 0.575 g 6.46 mmol as a solution in water 12.92 mL . EtOH 12.92 mL was added and the reaction was stirred for 2 h. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc and water. The layers were separated and the organic layer was dried anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient afforded the title product.

Ethynylmagnesium bromide 0.5 M 4.20 mL 2.1 mmol was quickly added dropwise to a mixture of the intermediate from Step A 0.23 g 1.40 mmol in THF 3.5 mL at 50 C. The mixture was slowly warmed in the bath for 30 min. The reaction was quenched with saturated aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with brine dried anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient to give the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.28 1H s 3.84 3H s 2.68 1H s 2.06 2.07 2H m 1.03 3H t J 7.44 Hz .

To oxazole 0.862 g 12.49 mmol in THF 28.4 mL at 78 C. was added n BuLi 5.45 mL 13.62 mmol 2.5 M in hexane dropwise. The reaction was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min and a solution of the intermediate from Step A of I 19 2 g 11.35 mmol in THF 10 mL was added. The resulting mixture was stirred below 15 C. for 1.5 h quenched with ice cold saturated aq. NHCl then extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel column chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 30 EtOAc Hexane afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.97 1H s 7.93 1H s 4.89 1H s 3.93 3H s 0.89 2H m 0.72 1H m 0.64 1H m 0.45 1H m m z 246.12 M 1 . The racemic material was resolved via chiral SFC AD H to obtain isomer I 21A faster eluting and isomer I 21B slower eluting .

Isopropyl magnesium chloride lithium chloride complex 2.62 ml 3.41 mmol was added dropwise to 4 iodoisoxazole 0.609 g 3.12 mmol in THF 10 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 1 h during which time the temperature rose to 18 C. A solution of methyl 3 3 dicyano 2 cyclopropylacrylate see Step A of I 19 0.5 g 2.84 mmol in THF 3 mL was added at 0 C. The resulting mixture was allowed to rise to RT slowly and stirred for 4 h then was quenched with ice cold saturated aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel column chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 EtOAc Hexane afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.74 1H s 8.53 1H s 4.59 1H s 3.89 3H s 1.08 1H m 0.91 2H m 0.61 1H m 0.52 1H m m z 246.13 M 1 .

Isopropylmagnesium chloride lithium chloride complex 5.24 ml 6.81 mmol was added dropwise to 4 iodoisopropyl 1H pyrazole 1.535 g 6.24 mmol in THF 10 mL at 0 C. and the reaction was warmed to RT and stirred for a total of 2 h. A solution of methyl 3 3 dicyano 2 cyclopropylacrylate see Step A of I 19 1 g 5.68 mmol in THF 4 mL was added at 0 C. The resulting mixture was allowed to rise to RT slowly and stirred overnight then was quenched with ice cold saturated aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel column chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 EtOAc Hexane afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.59 2H s 4.47 1H s 4.16 1H m 3.86 3H s 1.56 6H d J 5 Hz 0.91 1H m 0.81 2H m 0.64 1H m 0.46 1H m m z 287.13 M 1 .

To 3 bromo 5 methoxypyridine 0.756 g 4.02 mmol in toluene 12 mL and THF 3 mL at 78 C. was added n BuLi 1.61 mL 4.02 mmol 2.5 M in hexane dropwise. The reaction was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min and then a solution of ethyl 3 3 dicyano 2 methylprop 2 enoate prepared according to Hagiware et. al. 1974 9 669 0.6 g 3.65 mmol in benzene 1.2 mL was added. The resulting mixture was warmed to RT and quenched with saturated aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel column chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.39 1H d J 2.66 Hz 8.29 1H d J 2.00 Hz 7.22 1H t J 2.39 Hz 4.53 1H s 4.38 4.27 2H m 3.93 3H s 2.04 3H s 1.30 3H t J 7.13 Hz . The racemic material was resolved via chiral chromatography IA H column to obtain isomer I 24A faster eluting and isomer I 24B slower eluting .

Using essentially the same procedure described for Intermediates 15 24 the following compounds in Table 2 were made.

2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl ethanol 4.9 g 36.0 mmol was added in a flask 250 mL in a water bath at rt DCM 72.0 ml was added followed by TEA 15.05 ml 108 mmol DMAP 0.879 g 7.2 mmol and lastly TsCl 9.61 g 50.4 mmol . The reaction was stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was poured onto ice water 200 mL and the water phase was extracted with EtOAc 200 mL . The organic phase was dried by MgSO filtered and the solvent was evaporated under in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography 0 50 EtOAc in Hexanes afforded the title compound.

2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 8.88g 30.6 mmol and NaCN 1.649 g 33.6 mmol were added in a flask 100 mL DMSO 61.2 ml was added. flushed with Nfor 2 min then was heated to 90 C. for 3 h then 80 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled down to RT and added EtO 100 mL and water 100 mL were added followed by 10 min. of stirring. The phases were separated and the ether layer was washed with brine 50 mL 2 dried by MgSO filter and concentrated at RT at a pressure of 150 mmHg. The material was not concentrated completely. The title compound was carried onto the next step without further purification.

3 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl propanenitrile 4.4 g 30.3 mmol was added in a microwave vial 40 mL followed by propanol 60.6 ml . HCl gas was passed through the solution for 20 min at RT then sealed with a crimped cap. The reaction was heated to 90 C. for 2 h. The reaction was cooled to RT and the solids were filtered and rinsed with EtO 100 mL . The filtrate was concentrated to afford the title compound in 80 purity. The material was used without further purification. H NMR 500 MHz CDOH 4.03 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 2.66 2.61 m 2H 2.31 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 2.21 2.12 m 3H 1.80 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 1.68 1.63 m 2H 0.95 t J 7.0 Hz 3H .

Using essentially the same procedure described in Steps C F for the synthesis of Example 1 using Intermediate 34 or commercially available reagents the following compounds in Table 3 were made.

To a stirred solution of Jones reagent chromium trioxide HSOcomplex in water 20 ml 160 mmol in acetone 20 mL at 0 C. a solution of 4 4 5 5 5 pentafluoropentan 1 ol 7.12 g 40 mmol in acetone 30 mL was added dropwise. After the addition the mixture was removed from the ice bath and was stirred continuously at RT for 1 h. The mixture was poured into ice water and extracted with EtO. Crude ether mixture was extracted with aq. 2N sodium hydroxide. The inorganic layer was acidified with aq. 6 N HCl and the organic layer was extracted with EtO. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give the title product.

To a solution of the intermediate from Step A 25 g 0.13 mol in propanol 100 mL at 0 C. was added thionyl chloride 14.9 mL 0.195 mol . After addition the mixture was removed from the ice bath and was stirred continuously at RT for 5 h. The solution was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was diluted with EtOAc and poured into ice water. The organic layer was washed with aq. NaHCOsolution dried over NaSO then concentrated in vacuo to give the title product.

A mixture of 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 70 g 0.49 mol EtONa 117 g 1.72 mol and the intermediate from Step B 272 g 1.16 mol in EtOH 1 L was stirred in a sealed bottle at 120 C. overnight. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was diluted with HO 2 L and then adjusted to pH 6 with 2 N aq. HCl solution. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 1 L 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography using petroleum ether EtOAc 1 1 to give the title product.

The intermediate from Step C 43 g 0.145 mmol in POCl 250 mL was stirred at 115 C. overnight. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc 2 L and then washed with HO 1 L 5 . The organic layer was dried and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using petroleum ether EtOAc 5 1 to give the title product.

The intermediate from Step D 38 g 0.12 mol ZnCN 38 g 0.33 mol Pd dba 3.5 g dppf 4.3 g in DMF 1 L was stirred at 115 C. for 4 h. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using petroleum ether EtOAc 10 1 to give the title product.

MeAl 254 mL 0.51 mol 2 mol L was added dropwise to NHCl 27 g 0.51 mol in toluene 1 L and stirred at RT for 1 h. The intermediate from Step E 77.5 g 0.25 mol was then added and the solution was heated to 120 C. The mixture was stirred at 120 C. for 2 h and then cooled to RT. MeOH DCM and silica gel were added and stirred for 15 min and then the solid was filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated and the crude solid was suspended in THF and filtered again. The filtrate was concentrated and washed with petroleum ether EtOAc 10 1 100 mL . The solid was dried in vacuo to get the title product

Into an 8 mL vial were placed the intermediate from Step F 50 mg 0.16 mmol 1.0 equiv I 2B 49 mg 0.19 mmol 1.2 equiv potassium bicarbonate 19 mg 0.19 mmol 1.2 equiv and t butanol 2 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 16 h at 70 C. in an oil bath. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 5 mL . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL and the organic layers were combined and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified by silica chromatography using EtOAc petroleum ether 1 1 . The crude product was re crystallized from DCM hexanes in a ratio of 1 1 to afford the title product. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 8.93 brs 1H 8.67 s 1H 8.48 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.61 7.55 m 1H 7.49 7.43 m 1H 4.16 s 3H 3.58 3.52 m 2H 2.94 2.77 m 2H 1.93 s 3H MS ES m z 538 M 1 .

3 Amino 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 200 g 1.85 mol was dissolved in 1 L of DMF in a 2 L three necked flask. CsCO 260 g 2.03 mol was then added. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. and CDI 280g 1.93 mol was added slowly at 0 10 C. The solution was stirred for 6 h at 0 10 C. The solvent was concentrated. DCM 500 mL was added and the mixture was stirred for 0.5 h at RT. The solution was filtered and the cake washed with DCM 250 mL . An additional amount of DCM 250 mL was added to the solid and the mixture was stirred for 0.5 h at RT. The mixture was filtered and the cake washed again with DCM 250 mL . The cake was dried to give the title product.

To the intermediate from Step A 120 g 0.96 mol was added 500 mL of conc. HSOat 10 C. The resulting slurry was aged for 6.0 h at RT. CHCN 300 mL was added slowly at 0 10 C. The resulting mixture was filtered and the cake washed with 1 L of CHCN. The solids were dissolved in water 600 mL and 50 wt NaOH aq. solution was added until the pH of the mixture was 7. The mixture was concentrated and DMF 200 mL was added. The mixture was filtered and the cake washed with DMF 100 mL . Another aliquot of DMF 100 mL was added. The mixture was stirred for 0.5 h at RT filtered and the cake washed with DMF 200 mL . The organic layers were combined and concentrated to give the title product.

The title compound was prepared from the intermediate from Step B according to the procedure described in Steps C through F of Example 1.

The title compound was prepared from the intermediate from Step C and racemic I 2 using an analogous procedure to that described in Step G from Example 1. The racemic material was resolved via a chiral SFC IC column to afford Example 2A and 2B. H NMR ppm DMSO d 1.85 3H s 2.89 2.86 2H m 3.39 3.33 2H partially overlapping with HO 6.70 2H br s 7.73 1H t J 6.05 Hz 8.46 1H d J 2.69 Hz 8.53 1H d J 5.04 Hz 8.98 1H s 11.52 1H br s m z 496.14 M 1 .

To a 250 mL round bottom flask in a water bath at RT were added commercially available 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl methanol 20 g 164 mmol DCM 100 ml EtN 34.2 mL 246 mmol DMAP 2 g 16.38 mmol and TsCl 37.5 g 197 mmol and the reaction was stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was then poured into ice water 200 mL . The water phase was extracted with EtOAc 200 mL . The organic phases were combined and concentrated. The crude product was re dissolved in EtOAc 200 mL washed with water 200 mL brine 200 mL dried over MgSO filtered and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. The material was filtered through a one inch silica gel pad rinsed with EtOAc Hexanes 1 1 500 mL and concentrated to afford the title product.

To a 100 mL round bottom flask the intermediate from Step A 5 g 18.1 mmol sodium cyanide 0.976 g 19.91 mmol and DMSO 36.2 mL were added. The reaction was flushed with nitrogen for 2 min then was heated to 90 C. for 5 h followed by TLC. The reaction was cooled down to RT EtO 50 mL and water 50 mL were added and the resulting mixture was stirred for 10 min. The ether layer was washed with brine 50 mL 2 dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated at RT pressure at 150 mbar to afford the title compound.

To a 40 mL microwave vial the intermediate from Step B 3.3 g 70 w w 9.61 mmol and propanol 19.22 ml were added. HCl gas was bubbled through the reaction mixture for 20 min. The reaction vial was sealed and was heated to 90 C. for 1.5 h. The reaction was cooled down to RT and the solid was filtered off and rinsed with ether. The solution was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared from the intermediate from Step C according to the procedure described in Step C to Step F of Example 1.

The title compound was prepared from the intermediate from Step D and I 2B using an analogous procedure to that described in Step G from Example 1. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.88 1H s 8.51 1H s 7.65 1H m 7.60 1H m 4.12 3H s 3.37 2H d J 8.3 Hz 2.88 1H bs 2.75 2H m 2.49 2H m 1.94 3H s m z 496.14 M 1 .

The title product was prepared from commercially available 5 5 5 trifluoropentanoic acid using a procedure analogous to that described in Step B of Example 1.

The title compound was prepared from the intermediate from Step A using a procedure analogous to that described in Step C to Step F of Example 1.

The title compound was prepared from the intermediate from Step B and I 2B using a procedure analogous to that described in Step G from Example 1. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 8.67 s 1H 8.48 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.61 7.55 m 1H 7.48 7.43 m 1H 4.16 s 3H 3.40 3.30 m 2H 2.29 2.26 m 4H 1.93 s 3H .

The title product was prepared from commercially available methyl 2 2 3 difluorophenyl acetate and the intermediate from Step B in Example 1 using a procedure analogous to that described in Steps C to Step F from Example 1.

The title compound was prepared with the intermediate from Step A and I 3 using a procedure analogous to that described in Step G from Example 1. H NMR ppm DMSO d 8.98 1H s 7.31 7.35 1H m 7.17 3H s 4.51 2H s 4.00 3H s 2.34 3H s 1.91 3H s .

Into a 25 mL round bottom vial were placed 1 30 Table 3 120 mg 0.42 mmol 1.0 equiv I 2B 120 mg 0.46 mmol 1.1 equiv tert butanol 4 ml and potassium bicarbonate 84 mg 0.84 mmol 2.0 equiv . The resulting mixture was stirred for 16 h at 80 C. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of brine 10 mL . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL and the organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was applied onto a silica gel column with DCM MeOH 10 1 to afford the title compound as a diastereomeric mixture. The diastereomers were resolved by Chiral Prep HPLC Chiral P Lux SFC with 30 MeOH containing 0.2 diethylamine to afford both diastereomers of the title compound.

Using essentially the same procedures described in Examples 1 to 6 and using the appropriate intermediates the following compounds in Table 4 were made.

The title compound was prepared from 6 3 3 4 4 4 pentafluorobutyl 1 methyl d3 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 carboximidamide the intermediate from Step C of Example 2 and I 17 analogous to the procedure described in Step G of Example 1.

Hydrazine hydrate 0.40 mL 8.29 mmol was added to a MeOH 8 mL solution of the intermediate from Step A 0.315 g 0.58 mmol . The mixture was heated at 50 C. for 2 h cooled to RT and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography using a MeOH DCM gradient to give the title compound.

To a mixture of the intermediate from Step B 0.303 g 0.573 mmol cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 0.108 g 1.26 mmol and PyBOP 0.745 g 1.43 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added DIEA 0.370 g 2.86 mmol . The solution was stirred at RT for 18 h and water 10 mL was added. The material was extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography using MeOH DCM gradient to give title compound.

To the intermediate from Step C 0.35 g 0.586 mmol was added polyphosphoric acid 2 mL . The resulting mixture was heated at 125 C. for 18 h and cooled to RT. Water 5 mL was added and followed by solid KCOuntil pH 7. The material was extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by reversed phase HPLC using water acetonitrile 0.1 TFA to give the title compound. Resolution via chiral SFC AD column provided Isomer 38A faster eluting and Isomer 38B slower eluting of the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 11.62 1H s 9.00 1H s 7.14 2H s 3.37 3.25 2H overlapping with HO 2.94 2.81 3H m 2.28 2.22 1H m 2.00 1.94 1H m 1.18 1.14 2H m 1.03 0.98 2H m 0.68 0.53 3H m 0.40 0.34 1H m . m z 581 M H .

Using essentially the same procedures described for Example 38 the following compounds in Table 5 were synthesized.

A solution of I 19 375 mg 1.73 mmol in t BuOH 5 mL was added to the intermediate from Step C of Example 2 470 mg 1.45 mmol . The resulting solution was heated at 85 C. for 7 h. The reaction was then cooled to RT water 7 mL was added and the material reheated to 85 C. for 20 min then allowed to return to RT over several hours without stirring and allowed to stand at ambient temperature for 16 h. The resulting precipitate was collected to afford the title compound. Chiral separation using SFC on a Chiralcel OD column provided both Isomer A and Isomer B of the title compound.

Iodomethane 50 L 0.80 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of sodium azide 48 mg 0.74 mmol in DMF 2 mL in a vial wrapped with foil. The suspension was stirred for 16 h then water 1 mL copper sulfate 10 mg 0.06 mmol sodium ascorbate 96 mg 0.48 mmol and Isomer A from Step A 80 mg 0.161 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was heated at 40 C. for 72 h. The solution was diluted with EtOAc and washed with water. The organic layer was dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC ceric ammonium nitrate water 0.1 TFA modifier to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 11.43 1H s 9.00 1H s 8.15 1H s 7.03 2H s 4.06 3H s 3.47 3.29 2H m partially overlapping with HO 2.94 2.80 2H m 1.79 1.70 1H m 0.58 0.46 3H m 0.43 0.31 1H m . m z 553 M 1 .

The title compound was prepared with I 19 and the intermediate from Step F of Example 1. The racemic material was resolved by chiral resolution using Chiralpak IC column to afford Isomer A faster eluting and Isomer B slower eluting of the title compound.

Into a 10 mL vial were placed DMF 8 mL and MeI 66 mg 0.47 mmol 2.3 equiv . This was followed by the addition of sodium azide 53 mg 0.81 mmol 4.0 equiv at ambient temperature. The resulting solution was stirred for 16 h at ambient temperature. To this was added Isomer A from Step A 100 mg 0.20 mmol 1.0 equiv 5 1 2 dihydroxyethyl 4 hydroxy 3 sodiooxy 2 5 dihydrofuran 2 one 40 mg 0.20 mmol 1.0 equiv water 1 mL and copper sulfate 13 mg 0.4 equiv and the resulting mixture was stirred for 3 days at 50 C. The resulting solution was diluted with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL and the organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was applied onto a silica gel column with DCM MeOH 100 1 . Then the crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC MeCN water 0.05 TFA modifier to afford the title product 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.29 9.25 br 1H 8.77 s 1H 7.76 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 4.18 s 3H 4.12 s 3H 3.58 3.53 m 2H 2.90 2.76 m 2H 1.64 1.57 m 1H 0.66 0.56 m 4H MS ES m z 550 M 1 .

The title compound was prepared from I 18 and the intermediate from Step F of Example 1. The racemic material was resolved by chiral SFC IC H column to obtain Isomer A faster eluting and Isomer B slower eluting of the title compound.

To a 40 mL microwave vial Isomer A from Step A 590 mg 1.26 mmol and bromotris triphenylphosphine copper I 235 mg 0.25 mmol were added. The vial was capped and flushed with nitrogen for 2 min. DMSO 12.7 mL and 2 azidopropane 340 mg 3.8 mmol were added via syringe and the reaction was heated to 55 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled to RT diluted with EtOAc 50 mL washed with water 250 mL and brine 50 mL . The organic phase was stirred with NHOH 10 mL 2 1 h each washed with water 50 mL 2 dried by MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.94 1H s 8.01 1H s 4.89 1H m 4.15 3H s 3.48 2H m 2.92 2H m 1.90 3H s 1.60 6H dd J 6.7 3.4 Hz m z 552.26 M 1 .

The title compound was prepared from I 18 and the intermediate from Step B of Example 2. The racemic material was resolved by chiral resolution using a chiral SFC IC H column to afford Isomer A faster eluting and Isomer B slower eluting .

To sodium azide 111 mg 1.7 mmol in a microwave vial DMSO 2 mL was added and the vial was capped. Next MeI 107 l 1.7 mmol was added via syringe and the mixture was heated to 40 C. for 16 h. Isomer A from Step A 80 mg 0.17 mmol and bromotris triphenylphosphine copper I 63.4 mg 0.068 mmol were added in a microwave vial 4 mL capped and flushed with Nfor 2 min DMSO 1704 l was added and after everything was dissolved the methylazide solution was added and the reaction heated at 50 C. for 16 h. The mixture was cooled diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and washed with water 20 mL brine 20 mL and NHOH 8 mL . The mixture was stirred for 2 h and the organic layer separated off and treated again with NHOH 4 mL for 1 h. The organic was separated off and was extracted with brine 20 mL 2 then dried by MgSO filtered and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel chromatography 0 100 EtOAc gradient in hexanes afforded the title compound. m z 557.1 M 1 

The title compound was prepared from I 19 and the intermediate from Step F of Example 1. The racemic material was resolved by chiral resolution using SFC conditions 30 IPA 0.2 diethylamine CO IC H column to obtain Isomer A faster eluting and Isomer B slower eluting of the title compound.

To sodium azide 108 mg 1.665 mmol in a microwave vial DMSO 2 mL was added the vial was capped and then MeI 104 l 1.67 mmol added via syringe and heated to 40 C. for 16 h. Isomer A from Step A 80 mg 0.167 mmol and bromo tris triphenylphosphine copper I 62 mg 0.07 mmol were added in another microwave vial 4 mL the vial was capped and flushed with Nfor 2 min DMSO 1685 l was added and after everything was dissolved the methylazide solution was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 50 C. for 16 h. The mixture was cooled diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and washed with water 20 mL brine 20 mL and NHOH 8 mL . The mixture was stirred for 2 h and the organic layer separated off and treated again with NHOH 4 mL for 1 h. The organic layer was separated off and was extracted with brine 20 mL 2 then dried with MgSO filtered and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo. The resulting material was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 100 EtOAc gradient in hexanes . The material was further purified via reverse phase ceric ammonium nitrate water 0.1 TFA to afford the title compound. m z 538.1 M 1 

The title compound was prepared from I 17A and the intermediate from Step F of Example 1 analogous to Step G of Example 1.

Into an 8 mL vial were placed potassium carbonate 379 mg 2.8 mmol cyclopropanamine 98 mg 1.7 mmol copper sulfate 66 mg 0.41 mmol and MeOH 11.2 mL . To this was added 1H imidazole 1 sulfonyl azide hydrochloride 431 mg 2.1 mmol in water 5.6 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 5 h at RT. This was followed by the addition of sodium R 2 S 1 2 dihydroxyethyl 4 hydroxy 5 oxo 2 5 dihydrofuran 3 olate 109 mg 0.55 mmol and the intermediate from the previous step 160 mg 0.34 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred for 16 h at 70 C. The reaction mixture was quenched by the addition of ammonia 50 mL . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL and the organic layers combined. The resulting solution was washed with ammonia 3 50 mL and brine 50 mL . The mixture was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The crude product was purified by Prep HPLC water with 0.05 ammonia and MeCN 35 MeCN up to 50 in 8 min to afford the title compound H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 8.93 s 1H 8.02 s 1H 4.15 s 3H 3.97 3.91 m 1H 3.50 3.46 m 2H 2.98 2.84 m 2H 1.88 s 3H 1.31 1.15 m 4H MS ES m z 550 M 1 .

To a 4 mL microwave vial Isomer A from Step A of Example 56 100 mg 0.214 mmol and bromotris triphenylphosphine copper I 39.9 mg 0.04 mmol were added. The vial was capped and flushed with nitrogen for 2 min. DMSO 2144 l and azidotrimethylsilane 148 l 1.07 mmol were added. The reaction was set up in a microwave at 120 C. for 2 h. Upon cooling down to RT the reaction was purified by reverse phase HPLC MeCN water 0.1 TFA . The product TFA salt fractions were lyophilized overnight. The dry product TFA salt was dissolved in EtOAc 50 mL stirred with NHOH 6 mL 2 1 h each . The NHOH phase was extracted with EtOAc 20 mL 2 . The organic phase was combined and washed with brine 20 mL 2 and acidified to a pH 5 with acetic acid dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.93 1H s 7.85 1H s 4.15 3H s 3.48 2H m 2.91 2H m 1.91 3H s m z 510.07 M 1 .

The product of Example 60 100 mg 0.137 mmol 70 KCO 57.0 mg 0.412 mmol DMF 687 l and 2 bromopropane 15.64 l 0.165 mmol were added to a 4 mL vial. The reaction was run at RT for 48 h. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL washed with water 10 mL brine 10 mL dried with MgSO filtered and was concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography using a hexanes EtOAc gradient 0 100 afforded the title product. H NMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.93 1H s 7.68 1H s 4.84 1H m 4.15 3H s 3.48 2H m 2.91 2H m 1.89 3H s 1.56 6H dd J 6.6 1.6 Hz m z 552.06 M 1 .

Using essentially the same procedures described in Examples 54 61 the following compounds in Table 6 were made.

A mixture of the product of Example 56 51 mg 0.092 mmol and t butyl nitrite 0.08 mL 0.65 mmol was stirred at 60 C. for 20 min. The mixture was then cooled to RT and diluted with EtOAc and water. The organic layer was dried magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The material was purified by prep TLC using 1 2 Hexanes EtOAc gradient to afford the title product. H NMR ppm DMSO d 12.00 1H s 8.75 1H s 8.73 1H s 8.30 1H s 4.77 4.81 1H m 4.09 3H s 3.39 2H t J 7.88 Hz 2.87 2.95 2H m 1.83 3H s 1.48 6H dd J 6.73 1.94 Hz .

Intermediate from Step A of Example 38 330 mg 0.607 mmol was dissolved in 7M ammonia in MeOH 4.3 mL and heated at 70 C. in a sealed tube for 3 h. The MeOH NHwas removed under reduced pressure and the resulting material was suspended in DCM and purified by silica chromatography 0 7 MeOH in DCM gradient to afford the title product.

The intermediate from Step A 225 mg 0.43 mmol Example 54 and Lawesson s reagent 177 mg 0.43 mmol were stirred in 1 4 dioxane 3 mL at 80 C. for 18 h. Water 3 mL was then added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 80 C. for an additional 30 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting material was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with saturated aq. NaHCO. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a DCM MeOH gradient to give the title product.

To the intermediate from Step B 90 mg 0.17 mmol in EtOH 2 mL was added ethyl 5 bromo 2 2 dimethyl 4 oxopentanoate 63 mg 0.25 mmol . The solution was stirred at 80 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting material was resolved using SFC IC column to provide isomer 82A faster eluting and isomer 82B slower eluting of the title compound. m z 683.50 M 1 .

To a solution of Isomer 82B from Example 82 35 mg 0.05 mmol in THF was added 3M NaOH aq. solution 0.47 mL 1.3 mmol was added. The solution was heated to 50 C. for 96 h. 1N HCl 4 mL 4 mmol was added and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was then dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC using water acetonitrile 0.1 TFA . The fractions were concentrated in vacuo and the aq. mixture was made basic with 1M KCOaq. solution. The material was then extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with a 0.2 formic acid solution and brine dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 12.20 1H s 11.62 1H s 9.00 1H s 7.36 2H s 7.33 1H s 3.38 3.31 2H m partially overlapping with HO 2.94 2H s 2.92 2.82 2H m 1.85 1.77 1H m 1.12 3H s 1.09 3H s 0.67 0.62 1H m 0.58 0.50 2H m 0.46 0.38 1H m . m z 655 M 1 .

The title compound was prepared using a procedure analogous to that described in Steps A B from Example 38 starting from the ester intermediate prepared analogous to Step G of Example 1 from the intermediates from Step F of Example 1 and 1 14.

Into a 100 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen were added the intermediate from Step A 2.0 g 4.0 mmol 1.0 equiv THF 40 mL and TFA 0.52 g 4.64 mmol 1.15 equiv . This was followed by the addition of t butyl nitrite 1.2 g 11.99 mmol 3.0 equiv dropwise while stirring at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. and then concentrated in vacuo. To this was added t BuOH 40 mL . The resulting solution was allowed to react with stirring for additional 1 h while the temperature was maintained at 80 C. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of water 100 mL . The pH value of the solution was adjusted to a pH of 8 with NaHCO 1 N . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 4 100 mL and the organic layers were combined washed with brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was applied onto a silica gel column with MeOH DCM 2 to 5 . The crude was washed with DCM MeOH 3 3 mL in a ratio of 10 1 to afford the title product. The compounds were resolved via chiral SFC IA column to afford Isomer A faster eluting and Isomer B slower eluting of the title compound.

Isomer B from Step B 360 mg 0.65 mmol 1.00 equiv and DCM 5 mL were combined in a flask followed by the addition of TFA 2.5 mL . The resulting solution was stirred for 3 h at RT. The resulting mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The pH value of the solution was adjusted to a pH of 8 with NaHCO sat. . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL and the organic layers were combined. The resulting mixture was washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness to afford the title product.

Into a 5 mL microwave vial were placed the intermediate from the previous step 50 mg 0.113 mmol 1.0 equiv sodium azide 11 mg 0.17 mmol 1.5 equiv triethoxymethane 26 mg 0.17 mmol 1.5 equiv and AcOH 2.5 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at 80 C. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water ice 50 mL and the pH was adjusted to pH of 9 with sat d NaHCO. The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The residue was purified by preparative TLC DCM MeOH 20 1 . The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC MeCN Water 0.05 TFA modifier . The mixture was conc. in vacuo and sodium carbonate 1 mol L was added to adjust the pH to 10. The resulting solution was extracted with 3 50 mL of EtOAc and the organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The crude product was re crystallized from hexane EtOAc in a ratio of 5 1 to give the title compound 1H NMR CDOD 300 MHz ppm 9.54 s 1H 8.92 s 1H 4.14 s 3H 3.51 3.45 m 2H 2.99 2.81 m 2H 2.25 s 3H MS ES m z 511 M 1 .

Trimethyl aluminum 2.0 M toluene 32.5 mL 65.1 mmol was added to ammonium chloride 3.48 g 65.1 mmol suspended in toluene 100 mL at 0 C. The solution was then stirred at RT for 1 h to give a 0.49 M amino chloro methylaluminum solution in toluene. 4 4 5 5 5 Pentafluoropentanoic acid 2.5 g 13.0 mmol as described in Step A of Example 1 was added and the resulting mixture was left stirring at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and quenched with silica gel and 1 1 MeOH chloroform 50 mL . The resulting slurry was stirred vigorously for 30 min. The reaction mixture was filtered through a silica gel pad and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography using MeOH with 2M NH DCM gradient to give the title compound.

A mixture of the intermediate from Step A 1.01 g 5.29 mmol and NaOEt 0.72 g 10.6 mmol in EtOH 20 mL was stirred at RT for 20 min. A solution of ethyl 2 cyano 4 4 diethoxybutanoate 1.34 g 5.8 mmol in 20 mL of EtOH was added and the resulting mixture was refluxed for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT concentrated in vacuo and the residue was diluted with EtOAc. The solution was then washed with water dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography using MeOH with 2M NH DCM gradient to give the title compound.

To a solution of the intermediate from Step B 1.170 g 3.13 mmol in 50 mL of EtOH was added TFA dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 18 h and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound which was used in the next step without further purification.

A solution of the intermediate from Step C 0.88 g 3.1 mmol in POCl 10 mL was refluxed for 3 h. The resulting mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was diluted with diethyl ether washed with water dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography using hexanes DCM gradient to give the title compound.

To a suspension of NaH 0.2 g 5.0 mmol in DMF 5 mL at 0 C. was added a solution the intermediate from Step D 0.748 g 2.5 mmol in DMF 10 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 15 min and MeI 0.709 g 5.0 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was then stirred at RT for 1 h and partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic phase was washed with brine dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography using EtOAc hexanes gradient to give the title compound.

To a solution of the intermediate from Step E 0.681 g 2.17 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added zinc cyanide 0.255 g 2.17 mmol Pddba 0.199 g 0.217 mmol and dppf 0.241 g 0.434 mmol . The resulting solution was heated at 100 C. for 1 h. The reaction was cooled to RT diluted with water 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with brine dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography using EtOAc hexanes gradient to give the title compound.

Trimethylaluminum 2.0 M in toluene 18.9 mL 37.8 mmol was added dropwise to a suspension of ammonium chloride 2.02 g 37.8 mmol in 55 mL toluene cooled to 0 C. The solution was then stirred at RT for 1 h to give a 0.51 M amino chloro methylaluminum solution in toluene. This solution 27.9 mL 14.2 mmol was then added to the intermediate from Step F 0.541 g 1.8 mmol and then heated at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and quenched with silica gel and 1 1 MeOH chloroform 25 mL . The resulting slurry was stirred vigorously for 30 min. The reaction mixture was filtered through a silica gel pad 1 and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield the title compound.

A t BuOH 1.5 mL solution containing the intermediate from Step G 35 mg. 109 mmol I 2B 56.9 mg 0.22 mmol and potassium bicarbonate 22 mg 0.62 mmol was heated at 80 C. in a sealed tube for 24 h. The reaction was cooled to RT concentrated and purified via silica chromatography using a EtOAc gradient in hexanes to give the title product. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 11.24 1H s 7.63 1H d J 3.48 Hz 7.36 7.28 3H m 7.17 1H t J 8.75 Hz 6.66 2H s 3.84 3H s 3.35 3.28 2H partially overlapping with HO 2.91 2.78 2H m 1.80 3H s .

Into an 8 mL vial were placed the intermediate from Step G of Example 85 52 mg 0.16 mmol 1.0 equiv I 10B 38 mg 0.14 mmol 1.0 equiv potassium bicarbonate 16 mg 0.16 mmol 1.0 equiv and tert butanol 2 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 16 h at 70 C. in an oil bath. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and quenched by the addition of water 60 mL . The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 40 mL and the organic layers were combined. The resulting mixture was washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was applied onto a silica gel column with EtOAc petroleum ether 70 80 to give the title product. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.13 s 1H 7.30 7.23 m 2H 5.82 brs 2H 3.92 3.87 s 3H 3.59 3.49 m 2H 2.91 2.60 m 2H 2.16 2.06 m 1H 1.98 s 3H 1.20 1.11 m 4H MS ES m z 550 M H .

Using essentially the same procedures described in Examples 86 or steps A through D of Example 38 the following compounds in Table 7 were made.

sGC is a heme containing enzyme that converts GTP to secondary messenger cGMP. Increases in cGMP levels affect several physiological processes including vasorelaxation through multiple downstream pathways. The rate by which sGC catalyzes cGMP formation is greatly increased by NO and by recently discovered NO independent activators and stimulators. Heme dependent activators HDAs preferentially activate sGC containing a ferrous heme group. To determine the effect of sGC activators on enzyme activity the CASA assay was developed to monitor the generation of cGMP in a cell line that stably expresses the heterodimeric sGC protein.

A CHO K1 cell line stably expressing the sGC 1 1 heterodimer was generated using a standard transfection protocol. CHO K1 cells were transfected with plasmids pIREShyghsGC 1 and pIRESneo hsGC 1 simultaneously using FUGENE reagent. Clones that stably express both subunits were selected with hygromycin and neomycin for 2 weeks. Clone 7 was chosen for the assay and was designated CHO K1 sGC. CHO K1 sGC cells were maintained in F K12 medium containing 10 heat inactivated Fetal Bovine Serum FBS 100 g mL penicillin streptomycin 0.5 mg mL hygromycin and 0.25 mg mL G418. The cells were then cryopreserved in LN2. On the day of the assay cells thawed and resuspended in EBSS Assay Buffer EAB Sigma E3024 supplemented with 5 mM MgCl 10 mM HEPES 4 2 hydroxyethyl piperazine 1 ethanesulfonic acid and 0.05 BSA bovine serum albumin and cell density was then adjusted to 4 105 mL with EAB. IBMX 3 isobutyl 1 methylxanthin 0.5 mM was added to inhibit degradation of cGMP. Compounds were diluted from DMSO stock solutions and added to the assay at a final DMSO concentration of 2.5 . Cells were incubated with compounds in the presence and absence of 1 M of Diethylenetriamine nitric oxide adduct DETA NO Sigma 17018 for 1 hr at 37 C. At the end of the incubation period the reaction was terminated and the cells were lysed with the detection reagents from Cisbio Kits. The level of intracellular cGMP was determined using an HTRF based assay kit CisBio 62GM2PEC which detects the displacement of a fluorescence labeled cGMP from its specific antibody. The cGMP produced by test compounds was directly compared to the maximum cGMP production this value was set to equal 100 activation. of the published sGC HDA Compound A 

 Example 1 in WO 2010 065275 published Jun. 10 2010 . The test compounds activity were then expressed as a percentage of Compound A the standard in every experiment. This percent activation was calculated either in the presence or absence of DETA NO which was then plotted. IP and maximum fold induction was derived using ADA analysis software for 4P fit.

The compounds in the Examples of the instant invention had inflection points IP less than or equal to 10 M and more particularly less than or equal to about 1 M. Most preferred compounds had an IP of less than or equal to about 500 nM. Data for the compounds of the Examples is provided in Table 8.

Spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR male Charles River were implanted with DSI TA11PA C40 telemetry device Data Sciences Inc. St. Paul Minn. under isoflurane or ketamine metomidine anesthesia. The telemetry unit catheter was inserted into the descending aorta via the femoral artery and the telemetry device was implanted subcutaneously in the left flank area. Animals were allowed to recover from surgery for 14 days before the start of any studies. Blood pressure heart rate and activity signals from conscious freely moving rats were recorded continuously for 30 seconds every 10 min. On the day prior to administration of compound a single oral dose of vehicle 10 transcutol 20 Cremophor 70 water was administered to all animals to establish baseline control data. The blood pressure lowering efficacy of compound PO or vehicle was evaluated following a single oral gavage. Data were collected as hourly averages and changes in blood pressure were calculated by subtracting control baseline data on an hourly basis. Animals were maintained on normal diet with a 12 hour light dark cycle.

Maximum peak decreases of systolic blood pressure SBP in SHR at a particular P.O. dose mpk milligrams per kilogram for the following representative compounds are provided in Table 9. Category A SBP in SHRs 25 mmHg

