---

title: Voice and context recognition for bill creation
abstract: Methods and systems for facilitating payment of a bill are described. The methods use voice and context recognition to create an inventory of items for a specific user. When it is time to split the bill among a group at a table, each user is apportioned their share of the bill based on their inventory so that each user pays for what they ordered. The users may decide to split the bill differently, such as equally among themselves.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633383&OS=09633383&RS=09633383
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09633383
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140530
---
The present invention generally relates to facilitating payment of a bill such as a bill at a restaurant.

Many service businesses including restaurants entice customers with guarantees of prompt service. Any delays in taking and filling the customer order results in degradation of service and a loss of business. These delays can be caused for example by an incorrect order or by requests to split a bill.

When a plurality of persons dine at a restaurant for example and split the total bill it has been the general practice to declare their meals for payment and then for the server to calculate and charge their shares for the respective menu items. This request can be tedious and time consuming for the server. Especially in larger parties the party may wish to receive separate bills to properly split the check. Thus a need exists for a simpler way to split the bill.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The systems and methods described herein provide a faster and more efficient way for a bill to be split among a group. The present disclosure uses voice and context recognition to create an inventory of items for a specific user. This information can then be used to split the bill for all users at a table.

A group of users are seated at a table in a restaurant and each user provides their order by saying menu items out loud. A waiter device and the mobile devices of the users capture each voice order. A service provider receives the voice order each voice order is associated with a specific user and an inventory of items ordered by the specific user is created. When the group of users are ready to pay the bill the waiter device can transmit the total bill to each of the users at the table. The service provider then splits the bill according to the inventory of items ordered by each user so that each user can pay only for what they ordered.

The users at the table however may decide to split the bill differently. For example the users may specify what portions of the bill they want to pay or the users may agree to split the bill equally. In some embodiments the service provider identifies who among the people in the group the bill should go to. In other embodiments the service provider identifies subgroups within the group and combines the costs of members in the subgroup on one bill.

As shown in the system includes a first mobile device e.g. a smartphone a second mobile device e.g. a smartphone a waiter device e.g. a smartphone a beacon e.g. a radio frequency beacon or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacon and at least one service provider server or device e.g. network server device in communication over the network . The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

The first mobile device and second mobile device in one embodiment may be utilized by first user and second user to interact with the service provider server over the network . For example users and may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers with the service provider server and with each other via the mobile devices and .

The first mobile device and second mobile device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . The first mobile device in one embodiment may be utilized by the first user to interact with the service provider server over the network . The second mobile device in turn may be used by the second user to interact with the service provider server . For example the first user may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers with the service provider server via the mobile device . In various implementations the first mobile device may include a wireless telephone e.g. cellular or mobile phone a tablet a wearable computing device a personal computer a notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices.

The first mobile device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by the first user to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding payment etc. with the second user device waiter device beacon or with the service provider server over the network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to the first user via the user interface application .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the service provider server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network .

The first mobile device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to the first user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples the other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience.

In various implementations a user profile may be created using data and information obtained from cell phone activity over the network . Cell phone activity transactions may be used by the service provider server to create at least one user profile for the first user based on activity from the first mobile device e.g. cell phone and for the second user based on activity from the second mobile device . The user profile may be updated with each financial and or information transaction e.g. payment transaction purchase transaction etc. achieved through use of the mobile devices and . In various aspects this may include the type of transaction and or the location information from the mobile devices and . As such the profile may be used for recognizing patterns of potential fraud setting transaction limits on the user etc.

The first mobile device in one embodiment may include at least one user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the first mobile device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include one or more attributes related to the first user such as personal information related to the first user e.g. one or more user names passwords photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers social security number etc. and banking information and or funding sources e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user login request to the service provider server via the network and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the first user with a particular user account maintained by the service provider server .

Second mobile device may have similar applications and modules as first mobile device . Second mobile device may also include a user interface application and one or more other applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit second user to browse information over network . For example in one embodiment user interface application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet and communicate with service provider server .

Second mobile device may further include other applications such as security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email text IM and voice applications that allow second user to communicate through network receive messages from first user and create and manage funding sources. Second mobile device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of second mobile device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment recipient device authentication e.g. the phone number associated with second mobile device . Identifiers may be used by a service provider to associate second user with a particular account maintained by the service provider.

In some embodiments the mobile devices and each include a communication subsystem and which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystems and can depend on the communication network over which the mobile devices and are intended to operate. For example the mobile devices and can include communication subsystems designed to operate over a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network an Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network an LTE Direct network and a Bluetooth network.

First mobile device and second mobile device in one embodiment each include a geo location component adapted to monitor and provide an instant geographical location i.e. geo location of the devices and . In one implementation the geo location of the devices and may include global positioning system GPS coordinates zip code information area code information street address information and or various other generally known types of geo location information. In one example the geo location information may be directly entered into the devices and by a user via a user input component such as a keyboard touch display and or voice recognition microphone. In another example the geo location information may be automatically obtained and or provided by the devices and via an internal or external GPS monitoring component. In other embodiments the geo location can be automatically obtained without the use of GPS. In some instances cell signals or wireless signals are used. This helps to save battery life and to allow for better indoor location where GPS typically does not work.

In one aspect the first user and second user may elect to provide or may be prompted to provide permission for the release of geo location information. Accordingly the first user and second user may have exclusive authority to allow transmission of geo location information from the mobile devices and to the service provider server . In any instance the service provider server may communicate with the mobile devices and via the network and request permission to acquire geo location information from the mobile devices and for geo location based commerce.

One or more waiter devices may be configured like the mobile devices and . The waiter device is used by a wait person to receive voice orders from users and . As such the waiter device may include a voice sensor e.g. microphone to capture the voice or other sounds made by the users and . Once the order is received the waiter device can forward the voice order to a restaurant device or server not shown to process the order and or to the service provider server . The waiter device can also transmit a bill to the mobile devices and .

In various embodiments like mobile devices and waiter device also includes a communication subsystem which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. Accordingly the waiter device can include a communication subsystem designed to operate over a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network an Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network an LTE Direct network and a Bluetooth network.

Waiter device in one embodiment also includes a geo location component adapted to monitor and provide an instant geographical location i.e. geo location of the waiter device . In one implementation the geo location of the waiter device may include global positioning system GPS coordinates zip code information area code information street address information and or various other generally known types of geo location information. The geo location information may be directly entered into the waiter device by a user via a user input component such as a keyboard touch display and or voice recognition microphone or the geo location information may be automatically obtained and or provided by the waiter device via an internal or external GPS monitoring component. In other embodiments the geo location can be automatically obtained without the use of GPS. In some instances cell signals or wireless signals are used. This helps to save battery life and to allow for better indoor location where GPS typically does not work.

Beacon may be a hardware device including sensors that is separate from a user device and transportable or it can be a user device that includes Bluetooth technology. To prevent theft of beacons in cases where the beacon is transportable the beacon may be locked down such that it would not function if moved to another location without secure configuration changes. Beacon may be set up by merchants or individuals offering various items such as products and or services for sale. As defined herein a beacon is a short range communication device having a known or fixed location that provides a signal that can be detected by mobile devices within a certain proximity of the beacon. An example of a beacon is a radio frequency RF beacon e.g. Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon infrared beacon or a radio frequency identifier RFID tag. For example a BLE beacon can broadcast an RF signal that includes its position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude which can be detected by a mobile device. In some implementations the beacon can also advertise location based services provided by a beacon network. A beacon network encompasses a plurality of beacons in a geographic region.

Beacon is typically maintained by one or more service providers. When users and come in range of beacon a mobile application on the mobile devices and run by a service provider can wake up and connect to the beacon . Similarly when waiter device comes within range of beacon the waiter device can connect to the beacon . Mobile devices and and waiter device can then receive messages from beacon and beacon can receive messages from the mobile devices and and waiter device . In some implementations beacon is a BLE beacon. Beacon can transmit customized messages to the mobile devices and and waiter device based on the location of the mobile devices and and waiter device .

Beacon can output a wireless signal that can be detected by mobile devices and and waiter device when the devices are within a certain proximity of the beacon . Beacon may be a device that periodically or continuously transmits a signal such as a short distance wireless e.g. BLE medium distance wireless e.g. Wi Fi and or other electro magnetic and or electro magnetic transmissions. Power on beacon can be adjusted to communicate only within a desired range which may depend on intended message ranges. Mobile devices and and waiter device are configured to detect the transmitted signals from beacon such that when mobile devices and are located within the transmission range of beacon the signal may be detected.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a transaction processing entity or an online service provider which may provide processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between the first user the second user waiter device and beacon . As such the service provider server includes a service application which may be adapted to interact with the mobile devices and waiter device and or beacon over the network to facilitate the searching selection purchase and or payment of items by the users and . In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. eBay of San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between merchants and for example financial institutions.

The service application in one embodiment utilizes a payment processing application to process purchases and or payments for financial transactions between the users and and the waiter device . In one implementation the payment processing application assists with resolving financial transactions through validation delivery and settlement. As such the service application in conjunction with the payment processing module settles indebtedness between the users and and the waiter device wherein accounts may be directly and or automatically debited and or credited of monetary funds in a manner as accepted by the banking industry.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and merchant accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. first user and second user and merchants e.g. one or more merchants associated with the waiter device . For example account information may include private financial information of users and and each merchant associated with the one or more waiter devices such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between first user second user and the merchant associated with the waiter devices . In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation the users and may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and users and may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . User attributes may include personal information banking information and or funding sources. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate users and with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the service provider server .

In various embodiments the service provider server also includes a split bill application that splits the bill between users e.g. users and . The split bill application associates specific orders with specific users determines how to split a bill among users at a table and determines who to send the bill to. In certain embodiments the split bill application identifies the user who made the specific order by identifying the user s voice.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for facilitating payment of a bill is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In various embodiments the users and each register with a service provider which runs a mobile application. Registration may include signing up for the service and agreeing to any terms required by the service provider such as through a user device. In one embodiment the user device is a mobile computing device such as a smart phone a PC or a computing tablet. In other embodiments registration may be done completely through the user device partially through the user device or without using the user device such as through a phone call or in person visit to a representative of the payment service provider.

The user may be requested to provider specific information for registration such as but not limited to a name address phone number email address picture a user name for the account and a password or PIN for the account. The type of information may depend on whether the user already has an account with the service provider. Requested information may be entered through the user device or other means including voice or manual key entry. Once all the requested information is received and confirmed the service provider may create an account for the user.

First user and second user go out to a restaurant and are seated together at a table. It should be understood that although only two users are described as dining out together larger parties such as 10 or more people may constitute a party at a table.

A waiter or waitress carrying a waiter device that is running a service provider application then approaches the table. The service provider determines the location of the waiter device by determining which table the waiter device is visiting. In various embodiments each table is designated by RFID beacon e.g. beacon or a general location within a restaurant. For example the table may be associated with specific coordinates entered by a restaurant proprietor prior to opening the restaurant for business. When the waiter device visits the table the specific table may be selected in a variety of ways. For instance the waiter device may make a connection to the beacon so that the service provider server knows the location of the waiter device . In another example if the waiter device is not a smart device communication between the wait person s own personal smart device and the waiter device provides the location of the waiter device . In yet another example the waiter device may display all the tables associated with the restaurant and the waiter selects one table from the display.

In some embodiments the location of the users and is also determined by the service provider by determining which table the users and are seated at. For example the mobile devices and may connect with the beacon at the table or the mobile devices and may release geo location information to the service provider server .

Once the table is selected and the waiter is known to be at the specific table location the service provider application on the waiter device goes into listening mode. Similarly the mobile devices and are activated and also go into listening mode.

In some embodiments the waiter device makes a connection with each of the mobile devices and when the first user and the second user are seated. The proximity of the waiter device the first mobile device and the second mobile device allows the three devices to communicate through the beacon or the restaurant s Wi Fi. All three devices initially connect and periodically reconnect when orders are made until the bill is paid or the users and leave the restaurant.

At step the first user and second user order food items off a menu. The users and each verbally state what their order is. For example first user says I ll have the steak french fries and Caesar salad and the second user states I ll have the salmon spinach and mushroom soup. The waiter device first mobile device and second mobile device each receive the voice orders.

In certain embodiments the mobile devices and send the voice orders to service provider server for identification of the users making the order. In other embodiments the waiter device sends the voice orders to the service provider server .

At step the service provider server receives the voice orders and associates the orders with the users and . In some embodiments by virtue of the users and using voice applications on their mobile devices and the service provider server can understand which user is ordering through voice verification.

Voice verification or voice authentication may be used to associate specific orders with specific users. Voice authentication seeks to identify the speaker based solely on the spoken utterance. A speaker s identity can be verified using feature extraction and pattern matching algorithms wherein pattern matching is performed between features of an incoming voice sample and those of previously stored reference samples. The voice sample from a user is compared with a reference sample to verify an identity of the user. Features used for speech processing involve for example pitch frequency power spectrum values spectrum coefficients and linear predictive coding.

In various embodiments users and are prompted for a voice sample during registration with the service provider. The voice of the users and are recorded to create a voice scan or profile which is then stored. The voice profile in certain embodiments includes more than one phrase spoken by the user for added security as well as to allow identity verification by comparing alternate phrases such as by prompting the user to speak an additional phrase if the identity of the user is not verified with a first phrase.

In some embodiments the service provider server may interface with voice enabled intelligent personal assistant systems such as Siri or Google Now to obtain a reference voice sample for users and . In other embodiments the service provider server may integrate voice commands into its mobile application and get voice samples for users and . Once reference voice samples are acquired they may be stored on user devices on a service provider database or on a third party database.

Once each user voice at the table is identified the first mobile device affirms that the first user is speaking and making an order for steak french fries and salad and the second mobile device affirms that the second user is speaking and making an order for salmon spinach and soup. The first mobile device and second mobile device then confirm these orders with the waiter device . That is the first mobile device communicates to the waiter device that the first user has ordered steak french fries and salad and the second mobile device communicates to the waiter device that the second user has ordered salmon spinach and soup.

In some embodiments instead of the mobile devices and confirming the voice orders with the waiter device the mobile devices and can send voice profiles of the first user and second user to the waiter device . For example when the waiter device receives the voice orders the mobile devices and may send the voice profiles of the users to the waiter device . The waiter device can then use the voice profiles to identify which user is ordering what. For instance the waiter device may compare the received voice profiles with stored voice profiles of past customers.

In certain aspects the mobile devices and can determine whether first user is ordering or second user is ordering by determining whose voice is the loudest at the table. For example each mobile device may be equipped with a voice sensor or microphone to capture sounds made by the users at the table. The mobile devices at the table then talk amongst each other to determine which mobile device captured the loudest voice. When the loudest voice is identified the mobile device associated with the loudest voice can communicate to the waiter device that this specific user e.g. first user is making the order.

In some embodiments the waiter device includes smart glasses such as Google Glass . The wait person looks at the person at the table speaking and making the order. The waiter device is able to determine which person is ordering by for example image recognition.

Once each order at the table is associated with a user at step the waiter device transmits this information to the service provider and the service provider server creates an inventory of items ordered by the specific user and or the table as a whole. In other words a specific order is placed on a specific user s account. For example the steak french fries and salad are placed on a list for first user and salmon spinach and soup are placed on a list for second user . In this way the service provider keeps track of what each user ordered so that each user knows exactly what they ordered and how much of the bill they need to pay.

In some aspects the items ordered are displayed on each mobile device and so that the users and can verify their order. A list showing the ordered items cost for each ordered item and a total amount due on an order may be displayed on mobile devices and . This works to prevent incorrect orders that need to be sent back and unnecessary delays.

When the users and are finished with their meal they can request the bill. For example they can communicate to a wait person that they are ready to pay for the bill. At step the waiter device calculates the bill for the entire table and sends the bill to each mobile device at the table. In various embodiments each user e.g. first user and second user is provided with a display on their mobile device where they can see the cost of each item the cost of all items ordered by them as well as the cost of the entire check.

When each user is ready to pay at step the service provider server splits the bill according to the items ordered by each user so that each user pays for only what they ordered. So first user is presented with a bill for the steak french fries and salad and second user is presented with a bill for the salmon spinach and soup.

In some embodiments the users at the table may want the bill split in a way different than based on what they ordered. For example the users can identify specific portions of a check that they want to pay for or can agree to split the bill equally among everyone. This option may be available on their mobile device so that payment is calculated by dividing the total of the check by a certain number of people. In another instance the users at the table may decide to pay for one of the users because of a special occasion e.g. graduation or birthday . In this case each user can indicate on their phone the extra amount they wish to pay. In yet another example a group of friends may take turns paying for the bill and it may be the turn of one of the users to pay for the entire bill. This user can specify on his or her mobile device that he or she is paying the whole check.

In various embodiments the service provider server identifies who in the party the bill should be sent to. This can be based on past interactions between the members in the party age of the members in the party relationships between the members in the party and the context that the members of the party are in. By context is meant the surroundings and environment of the user including but not limited to time location social environment or combinations thereof. For example if the party includes an adult and a group of teenagers the service provider may send the bill to the adult because it is inferred that he or she is the parent. In another example the service provider determines that the party includes a male and female who are out on a date. The service provider sends the bill to the male. In yet another example the service provider determines it is Father s Day and sends the check to the oldest female in the party.

In some aspects the service provider server identifies subgroups within the party at the table and splits the bill according to the subgroup. If the members or a member in the subgroup decides that they do not want the bill split based on the subgroup the member s can specify on their mobile device what portion or how much of the bill they want to pay. The present disclosure allows a table to decide to pay individually as a group as a subgroup or any variation thereof.

The subgroup is a group within the party that usually pay together or that are likely to want to pay together. The members in the subgroup typically have some kind of relationship. A subgroup can be a family a married couple a dating couple an older family member and a younger family member a group of friends etc.

Subgroups can be identified based on past interactions and or transactions social network relationships subaccounts in an account with the service provider and or context. For example the service provider can determine that first user and second user have dined out together before and that first user usually pays for the meal. Based on this information the service provider combines the cost of the items ordered by first user and second user into a single bill communicates this cost to the first user and deducts this cost from the bill for the whole table. Subgroups can also be determined by using social networks. For instance the service provider may determine whether or not the first user and the second user are connected by a social network such as Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest Flickr etc. If the users and are directly connected the service provider can determine if they are family and what relationship they have e.g. parent child siblings cousins uncle or aunt nephew or niece grandparent grandchild etc. . In various embodiments the service provider can also determine the relative ages of the users and to decide who to send the check to. The service provider server can also determine whether users in the party are linked together by a service provider account. For example first user may have an account with the service provider and the first user specified a subaccount within the account that second user has access to. Based on this information the service provider groups the costs associated with first user and second user together and sends the bill to the first user . The service provider server may also determine who to group together based on calendar events or context. For example a user s calendar may indicate a friend s birthday graduation anniversary or holiday e.g. Mother s Day Father s Day etc. . If a date falls on a birthday for instance the service provider may exclude the birthday celebrant from the bill group the other people in the party and divide the bill amongst the group.

In a specific example the party at a table may be celebrating a wedding anniversary. Due to the special circumstances everyone in the party has agreed to pay for their own meals as well as an equal portion of the anniversary couple s meal. Also there happens to be a few married couples that want to combine the cost of their meals into one payment. The service provider groups the married couples into subgroups so that the costs of each couple s meal is combined on one bill. Moreover the service provider takes the cost of the anniversary couple s meal and divides it among the rest of the party e.g. individuals and subgroups . For example assume there are 7 people left in the party after removing the anniversary couple. Four of the people are married couples and the 3 remaining people are single. If the cost of the anniversary couple s meal is 100 then each married couple would pay about 28.50 and each single person would pay about 14.25 for the anniversary couple s meal.

At step the service provider server processes payment of the bill. The bill is paid in the way specified by the users at the table. In various embodiments each user or group of users share of the bill is deducted from their respective service provider accounts and transferred to an account of the restaurant.

A restaurant s ability to allows diners to efficiently split their bill avoids the arduous and often awkward or embarrassing task of each diner trying to manually calculate what they owe from a printed or handwritten bill that may be difficult to understand. The present disclosure allows each diner to determine exactly how much they need to contribute to the total outstanding bill and provides each diner flexibility on how much of the bill they want to pay. The present disclosure is also beneficial to business diners that require a receipt stating only their portion of the bill and exactly what they paid for.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system is illustrated suitable for implementing embodiments of the present disclosure including mobile devices and waiter device beacon and service provider server or device . System such as part of a cell phone a tablet a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components including one or more of a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a network interface component a display component or alternatively an interface to an external display an input component e.g. keypad or keyboard and a cursor control component e.g. a mouse pad .

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component . These may include instructions to process financial transactions make payments etc. In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of one or more embodiments of the disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Memory may be used to store visual representations of the different options for searching auto synchronizing making payments or conducting financial transactions. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the disclosure may be performed by system . In various other embodiments a plurality of systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the disclosure in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Although various components and steps have been described herein as being associated with mobile devices and waiter device beacon and service provider server of it is contemplated that the various aspects of such servers illustrated in may be distributed among a plurality of servers devices and or other entities.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

