---

title: System and method for controlling and organizing metadata associated with on-line content
abstract: A system and method are disclosed for controlling metadata associated with content on an electronic device that includes displaying interface screens for user entry of metadata control instructions, accepting user instructions, modifying metadata of applicable content, and associating the modified metadata with the applicable content. The system can export and/or store the applicable content along with modified metadata. The system can automatically modify metadata according to one or more profiles. Relevant profiles can be determined based on the export mechanism, destination or type of content. The system can add watermarks to indicate metadata modification. The system can display metadata for user modification. The content can include photos, videos or other content. The system can display metadata and geolocation indicators for each content item that indicate whether that item has associated metadata and geolocation information. The user can selectively modify meradata of selected content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09298943&OS=09298943&RS=09298943
owner: Deacon Johnson
number: 09298943
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140929
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 481 188 and issued as U.S. Pat. Ser. No. 8 849 819 filed on May 25 2012 entitled System and Method for Controlling and Organizing Metadata Associated with On Line Content which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 515 613 filed on Aug. 5 2011 entitled System and Method for Controlling and Organizing Metadata Associated with On Line Content both disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Smart phones are required to support global positioning system GPS capability by September of 2012. Other mobile devices and televisions are required to support GPS capability by 2018. Many mobile devices for example mobile phones associate metadata with content generated or captured by the mobile device for example photos. For a photo taken by a mobile device this metadata can include GPS data showing the location where the photo was taken a date showing when the photo was taken the name of the owner of the mobile device and other data such as comments or the names of the people in the photo. Typically this associated metadata stays with the photo and can be retrieved by recipients viewers of the photo including unintended recipients viewers of the photo. Users have limited control of this metadata especially after the content is sent to other users or shared through social networking photo sharing or other Internet sites.

Privacy issues due to metadata associated with on line content is a growing concern. Electronic device makers and service providers and many Internet sites provide varying capabilities to users to control metadata. Many electronic devices record and save metadata associated with content generated or stored on the device. Some device makers and service providers allow a user to view all or part of this stored metadata while others do not even allow the user to view the associated metadata. Some device makers and service providers allow limited editing of this stored metadata for example associating a name or other comment with content on the device. Social networking and photo sharing sites have different rules regarding metadata associated with uploaded or generated content. These sites maintain the metadata associated with content some of these sites allow users to show metadata associated with content and some allow users to edit some of the metadata associated with content.

The present system and method can be used to manage control and organize metadata associated with content on various types of electronic devices. These electronic devices can include but are not limited to mobile devices smart phones digital cameras computers and consumer electronic devices. The system can be part of the device operating system software a stand alone application or part of an integrated component embedded in a GPS capable device a camera a baseband or a system on chip SoC . The system can be used with various types of content including but not limited to digital images and digital videos. Many devices do not allow users to control personal information which is recorded as metadata and stored in content. GPS data also known as geolocation data or a geotag dates and name tags are examples of this metadata. Current image capture devices like mobile phones and digital cameras allow users to turn off geotagging GPS for their cameras but this method is not ideal for users who want to keep this metadata in their original photos but not include it when sharing their photos on the internet text or email. The present system enables users to have control over this metadata which is recorded and associated with digital content so they can remove personal information before sharing them on social networks email text and the internet but let them keep this metadata in their personal copies of the content.

A method is disclosed for controlling metadata associated with content on an electronic device. The method includes displaying interface screens on a display of the electronic device for user entry of instructions regarding metadata control accepting user instructions regarding metadata control through an input mechanism modifying metadata of applicable content in accordance with the user instructions and associating the modified metadata with the applicable content. Associating the modified metadata with the applicable content can include making an electronic copy of original content associating the modified metadata with the electronic copy the electronic copy being the applicable content and not modifying the metadata associated with the original content. Accepting user instructions regarding metadata control can include accepting a profile describing modifications to be made to the metadata. Modifying the metadata of applicable content can include automatically making the modifications described in the profile before exporting the applicable content along with the modified metadata.

The method can also include exporting the applicable content along with the modified metadata from the electronic device. Exporting the applicable content can include electronically mailing the applicable content over a network uploading the applicable content to a website over a network or sharing the applicable content with a third party.

The method can also include storing the applicable content along with the modified metadata in memory on the electronic device and marking the applicable content to indicate that the associated metadata has been modified. Marking the applicable content can include adding a watermark to the applicable content.

The method can include exporting the applicable content along with the modified metadata from the electronic device and accepting user instructions regarding metadata control can include accepting a plurality of profiles describing modifications to be made to the metadata and modifying the metadata of applicable content can include determining any relevant profiles of the plurality of profiles and automatically making the modifications described in the relevant profiles before exporting the applicable content along with the modified metadata. Determining any relevant profiles can include determining a user selected mechanism for exporting the applicable content or determining a user selected destination for exporting the applicable content or determining a type of content for the applicable content. Modifying the metadata of applicable content can include when no relevant profiles are found notifying the user that no relevant profiles were found and enabling the user to manually modify the metadata of the applicable content before exporting the applicable content.

The method can also include displaying a plurality of content items on the display of the electronic device and enabling user selection of the applicable content by selecting one or more content items of the plurality of content items. Displaying a plurality of content items can include displaying a watermark to indicate modified content items of the plurality of content items the metadata associated with the modified content items having already been modified by the system. The plurality of content items can include photos and or videos stored on the electronic device. Displaying a plurality of content items can include displaying a metadata indicator for each content item that indicates whether that content item has associated metadata information and or displaying a geolocation indicator for each content item that indicates whether that content item has associated geolocation metadata information. The method can also include displaying metadata information associated with the applicable content on the display of the electronic device. The method can also include enabling user modification of the displayed metadata information associated with the applicable content and associating the modified metadata information with the applicable content. The user interface screens can display a map with a pin indicating a desired location and modifying the metadata of applicable content can include modifying the location information in the metadata of the applicable content to be the desired location.

The interface screens can include an include author selection and an author entry field and modifying the metadata of applicable content can include deleting author information from the metadata of the applicable content when the include author selection is not selected overwriting the author information in the metadata of the applicable content with the entry from the author entry field when the include author selection is selected and the author entry field has an entry and not modifying the author information in the metadata of the applicable content when the include author selection is selected and the author entry field has no entry. The interface screens can include a watermark selection and modifying the metadata of applicable content can include adding a watermark to the applicable content when associating the modified metadata with the applicable content. The interface screens can include a filename field and modifying the metadata of applicable content can include changing the filename in the metadata of the applicable content to include the entry in the filename field when the filename field has an entry and not modifying the filename in the metadata of the applicable content when the filename field has no entry. The interface screens can include a remove date time selection and modifying the metadata of applicable content can include removing the date time information from the metadata of the applicable content when the remove date time selection is selected and not modifying the date time information in the metadata of the applicable content when the remove date time selection is not selected. The interface screens can include a remove location selection and modifying the metadata of applicable content can include removing the location information from the metadata of the applicable content when the remove location selection is selected and not modifying the location information in the metadata of the applicable content when the remove location selection is not selected. The interface screens can include a remove all selection and modifying the metadata of applicable content can include removing all of the identifying information from the metadata of the applicable content when the remove all selection is selected and not removing all of the identifying information from the metadata of the applicable content when the remove all location selection is not selected.

A system is disclosed for controlling metadata associated with content on an electronic device. The system includes a user interface with screens for display on the electronic device for entry of instructions regarding metadata control an input mechanism accepting the instructions through the user interface a metadata modification component modifying metadata associated with applicable content in accordance with the instructions and a metadata association component associating the modified metadata with the applicable content. The metadata association component can make an electronic copy of original content associate the modified metadata with the electronic copy and not modify the metadata associated with the original content the electronic copy being the applicable content. The system can also include a sharing component that prepares the applicable content along with the modified metadata for export from the electronic device. The sharing component can prepare the applicable content and the modified metadata for electronic mailing over a network for uploading to a website over a network or for electronic sharing with a third party. The system can also include a memory that stores the applicable content along with the modified metadata and a marking component that marks the applicable content to indicate that the associated metadata has been modified. The marking component can add a watermark to the applicable content.

The user interface can include screens for entry of a profile including instructions regarding metadata control and the input mechanism can accept the profile. The system can also include a sharing component that prepares the applicable content along with the modified metadata for export from the electronic device and the metadata modification component can automatically make the modifications described in the profile before providing the applicable content and the modified metadata to the sharing component.

The system can include a sharing component that prepares the applicable content along with the modified metadata for export from the electronic device and the input mechanism can accept a plurality of profiles describing modifications to be made to the metadata and the metadata modification component can determine any relevant profiles of the plurality of profiles and automatically make the modifications described in the relevant profiles of the plurality of profiles before providing the applicable content and the modified metadata to the sharing component. The metadata modification component can determine relevant profiles based on a user selected mechanism for exporting the applicable content or a user selected destination for exporting the applicable content or a type of content for the applicable content. When no relevant profiles are found the metadata modification component can notify the user that no relevant profiles were found and enables the user to manually modify the metadata of the applicable content before providing the applicable content to the sharing component.

The system can include a display component that displays a plurality of content items on the screen of the electronic device and the input mechanism can accept user selection of the applicable content by selecting one or more content items of the plurality of content items. The system can also include a marking component that marks content to indicate that the associated metadata has been modified and the display component can display a watermark to indicate modified content items of the plurality of content items the metadata associated with the modified content items having already been modified by the system. The content items can include photos and or videos stored on the electronic device. The display component can display a metadata indicator for each content item that indicates whether that content item has associated metadata information. The display component can display a geolocation indicator for each content item that indicates whether that content item has associated metadata information that includes geolocation information. The system can also include a metadata display component that displays metadata information associated with the applicable content on the display of the electronic device. The metadata modification component can enable user editing of displayed metadata information associated with the applicable content and associate the edited metadata information with the applicable content. The user interface can include a map with a pin indicating a desired location and the metadata modification component can modify the metadata location information of the applicable content to be the desired location.

The user interface can include an include author selection and an author entry field and the metadata modification component can delete the author information from the metadata of the applicable content when the include author selection is not selected overwrite the author information in the metadata of the applicable content with the entry from the author entry field when the include author selection is selected and the author entry field has an entry and not modify the author information in the metadata of the applicable content when the include author selection is selected and the author entry field has no entry. The system can include a marking component for marking content to indicate that the associated metadata has been modified and the user interface can include a watermark selection field where the marking component adds a watermark to the applicable content when the watermark selection field is selected and the metadata of the applicable content is modified and does not add a watermark to the applicable content when the watermark selection field is not selected. The user interface can include a filename field and the metadata modification component can change the filename in the metadata of the applicable content to include the entry in the filename field when the filename field has an entry and not change the filename in the metadata of the applicable content when the filename field has no entry. The user interface can include a remove date time selection and the metadata modification component can remove the date time information from the metadata of the applicable content when the remove date time selection is selected and not modify the date time information in the metadata of the applicable content when the remove date time selection is not selected. The user interface can include a remove location selection and the metadata modification component can remove the location information from the metadata of the applicable content when the remove location selection is selected and not modify the location information in the metadata of the applicable content when the remove location selection is not selected. The user interface can include a remove all selection and the metadata modification component can remove all of the identifying information from the metadata of the applicable content when the remove all selection is selected and not remove all of the identifying information from the metadata of the applicable content when the remove all selection is not selected.

The embodiments of the present invention described below are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed in the following detailed description. Rather the embodiments are chosen and described so that others skilled in the art may appreciate and understand the principles and practices of the present invention.

The present system can be used to manage control and or organize metadata associated with content on various types of electronic devices. These electronic devices can include but are not limited to mobile devices smart phones digital cameras computers including pad laptop and desktop computers running various operating systems and consumer electronic devices. The system can be embedded as part of the device operating system a stand alone application or in an integrated circuit IC chip that is part of a GPS capable device a camera a baseband or a system on chip SoC . The system can be used with various types of content including but not limited to digital images and digital video in compressed or uncompressed formats.

Many devices do not allow users to control personal information which is recorded as metadata and stored in content for example photos. GPS data also known as geolocation data or a geotag dates and name tags are examples of this metadata. Current image capture devices like mobile phones and digital cameras allow users to turn off geotagging GPS for their cameras but this method is not ideal for users who want to keep this metadata in their original photos but not include it when sharing their photos on the internet text or email. The present system enables users to have control over this metadata which is recorded and associated with digital content so they can remove or modify personal information before sharing the content on social networks email text and the internet but let them keep this metadata in their personal copies of the content.

The system can provide the capability to perform some or all of the following functions on various types of electronic devices. The system can enable metadata removal editing and viewing with the purpose of sharing or exporting content with which the metadata is associated for example through social networks email text blogs photo websites and etail eBay Craigslist etc . The system can enable watermarking via an overlay on the content or a mark on a bottom corner or other location of the content for example a photo. The watermark can signify that the metadata associated with the content has been removed edited. The system can save content to a designated folder or overwrite the original content for export to other applications. The system can be set to remove all metadata on sharing of content which will allow users to automatically remove metadata when sharing content on line for example photos videos. The system can be an embedded feature for a smartphone OS for example Apple iOS Google Android Microsoft Win7 Java Blackberry Symbian etc. . The system can be an embedded application in chip components ICs for integrating into consumer electronics devices as embedded controls for example digital cameras hard drives connected consumer electronics devices smart TVs etc. 

Exemplary embodiments of the system implementing some of the above functionality are described below. These embodiments are directed to a smart phone implementation but cam also be implemented on computers or other electronic devices. The content discussed with these embodiments is generally photos but other types of content having associated metadata can be managed by the system. Exemplary user interface screens for these exemplary embodiments are shown and the associated functionality is described. The system can be used by various types of users including mothers with children photographers people that use singles sites and social networking sites and people that use or provide content to social networking news eye on or blogger sites etc. The system can be used for photos videos and other content that is captured or stored by the electronic device or content received from other devices or persons and forwarded. The system can be used to view edit and or add metadata. The system can also be used to prepare content by removing or editing metadata before exporting emailing or uploading to another user or to a website.

The system can overwrite original content or create a folder for edited content content with the metadata removed or edited as desired by the user. The system can include free versions and paid versions. A free version can enable a limited number of photos to be processed and then periodically ask the user through pop up windows or other methods to upgrade based on a timer or the number of photos processed by the system. The free version can disable some of the user controlled features for example content watermarking A paid version can unlock more or all features and allow the user to have more control over the system settings. The system can store anonymous usage data in a server database. This usage data can include number of application downloads number of application starts amount of time the application is open number of application failures number of photos added number of photos processed amount of hidden data removed amount of GPS data removed number of thumbnails removed number of dates removed number of titles changed number of times taken by data is changed number of photos shared through email number of photos shared through various social networking and photo sharing sites for example Facebook Flickr Twitter Picasa Photobucket WordPress etc. or other data of interest. This usage data can be sent to a metrics database created on a system server when an internet connection is detected and otherwise stored locally until an internet connection is detected. Data reporting frequency can be set to a certain time period or usage amount or other parameter and can be changed through the system server or otherwise.

In this embodiment the content section shows an array of cells where each cell contains a thumbnail of a photo or other content managed by the system. The content can be organized and displayed in various other arrangements as would be obvious to those of skill in the art. A check box in a cell indicates that the user has selected the content in that cell . A system icon in a cell indicates that the content in that cell has already been modified by the system. The system icon can indicate content that has been modified in the current session or can indicate content that has been modified by the system whether in the current or prior sessions.

In this embodiment the command bar provides a modify content icon a share content icon a launch camera icon an add content icon and a trash or delete content icon . The modify content icon can bring up a modify content interface to modify the content selected in the content section as indicated by the check box in the cell . The share content icon can bring up a content sharing interface to share the content selected in the content section as indicated by the check box in the cell . The launch camera icon can bring up a camera interface to take pictures to be managed by the system. The add content icon can bring up an add content interface to add content to be managed by the system. The delete content icon can delete the content selected in the content section as indicated by the check box in the cell so that that content is no longer managed by the system. The delete content icon only affects the copies of the selected content being managed by the system but does not affect the original or other copies of the content that may be stored elsewhere by the user. A confirm window can be brought up when the delete content icon is selected asking for the user to select yes or no before actually deleting the copies of the selected content being managed by the system.

The exemplary screens also include device status indicators and controls that are commonly found on a smart phone. These device status indicators and controls may differ based on smart phone manufacturer operating system service provider or other factors. Equivalent device status indicators and controls can be implemented in computers and other consumer electronic devices using tool bars drop down menus and other interface means know to those of skill in the art. The screens include a status indicators bar and device controls that include a home icon a menu icon a back icon and a search icon . The status indicators bar can include status information for the device for example active applications signal level etc. In general the device controls have the following functions though they can be programmed to perform different functions depending on the conditions. The home icon can take the user out of the system application and to a home screen for the device. The menu icon can bring up an overlay window with commands relevant to the current screen of the system application for example a settings icon to go to a settings interface see and an information icon to bring up information about the system. The back icon can take the user back to the prior screen without executing any further actions on the current screen. The search icon can bring up a search interface relevant to the current application.

In this embodiment the photo section shows an array of cells where each cell contains a thumbnail of a photo managed by the system. The photos can be organized and displayed in various other arrangements as would be obvious to those of skill in the art. A check box in a cell indicates that the user has selected the photo in that cell . The number of photos selected in the parameter bar can be increased or decreased as the user selects or deselects cells in the photo section . An unselected cell can be selected by clicking on the unselected cell with a pointing device or tapping on the unselected cell with a touch screen. A selected cell can be deselected by clicking on the selected cell with a pointing device or tapping on the selected cell with a touch screen.

The command bar of the select photos interface includes an add button and a cancel button . When the add button is selected the photos selected by the user in the photo section can be added to the photo album previously selected in the photo albums section of the add content interface . When the cancel button is selected all of the photos in the photo section can be deselected and the user can start over selecting photos to add to the photo album previously selected in the photo albums section of the add photos interface . Alternatively when the cancel button is selected the system can exit the select photos interface without adding selected photos to a photo album and return to the add content interface .

By selecting the menu icon a menu of commands can be overlaid on the view photo interface . In this embodiment the menu of commands includes a modify photo icon a share photo icon a photo details icon a settings icon a delete photo icon and an info icon . The modify photo icon can bring up a modify photo interface to modify the photo displayed in the photo viewer . The share photo icon can bring up a photo sharing interface to share the photo displayed in the photo viewer . The details icon can display the metadata associated with the photo displayed in the photo viewer . An exemplary listing of metadata is shown in . The settings icon can bring up a settings interface for the system. The delete photo icon can delete the photo displayed in the photo viewer . The info icon can bring up an information screen providing information about the system including for example a short description of the system a system version identifier a link to a website regarding the system and some usage information for the user device for example number of photos modified number of photos shared etc.

The manage accounts section of the settings interface can include a listing of social network and photo sharing websites. This listing of social network and photo sharing websites can be those selected by the user or a default list with functionality to add or remove sites. When a particular site from the manage accounts section is selected a social networking photo sharing interface for that particular site can be displayed. The social networking photo sharing interface can include an application programming interface for the selected site and a back button for example the device control to return to the settings interface .

In this embodiment the photo section shows an array of cells where each cell contains a thumbnail of a photo managed by the system or photos in the currently selected photo album. The photos can be organized and displayed in various other arrangements as would be obvious to those of skill in the art. A check box in a cell indicates that the user has selected the photo in that cell for modification. A system icon in a cell indicates that the photo in that cell has already been modified by the system. The system icon can indicate photos that have been modified in the current session or can indicate photos that have been modified by the system whether in the current or prior sessions. In this embodiment the command bar provides an edit icon an all icon and a delete or remove icon .

The user can select individual photos for modification by selecting individual cells indicated by the check boxes . Alternatively the user can select the all icon to select all of the photos in the photo section . If all of the photos in the photo section are currently selected then selecting the all icon can deselect all of the photos in the photo section . The edit icon can bring up a photo metadata modification interface to modify the photos that are selected in the photo section as indicated by the check boxes in the cells . The remove icon can remove the photos that are selected in the photo section as indicated by the check boxes in the cells so that those photos are no longer subject to modification in this session of the modify photo interface . A confirm window can be brought up when the remove photo icon is selected asking for the user to select yes or cancel before actually removing the selected photos. If the user selects yes then the photos can be removed and the user returned to the previous screen and if the user selects cancel then the photos can not be removed and the user returned to the previous screen.

The user can enter a filename in the Filename field to be associated with all of the photos selected in the photo section of the modify photo interface . If only one photo is selected then that photo receives the name entered in the Filename field . If multiple photos are selected then a numerical suffix can be added to the filenames for each of the photos for example Vacation  Vacation  etc. If the Filename field is left blank then no change is made to the filename in the metadata. The user can enter an author name in the Author field to be associated with all of the photos selected in the photo section of the modify photo interface . If on the settings screen the Include Author checkbox is checked and an author name was entered in the Taken By field then that author name can appear in the Author field . If the remove date time checkbox is checked then the date time fields are blanked out in the metadata for the selected photos otherwise no change is made to the date time in the metadata. If the remove location checkbox is checked then the location and GPS fields are blanked out in the metadata for the selected photos otherwise no change is made to the location and GPS fields in the metadata. If the remove all checkbox is checked then all of the fields are blanked out in the metadata for the selected photos otherwise no additional fields are changed in the metadata.

In this embodiment the photo section shows an array of cells where each cell contains a thumbnail of a photo managed by the system or photos in the currently selected photo album. The photos can be organized and displayed in various other arrangements as would be obvious to those of skill in the art. A check box in a cell indicates that the user has selected the photo in that cell for modification. A system icon in a cell indicates that the photo in that cell has already been modified by the system. The system icon can indicate photos that have been modified in the current session or can indicate photos that have been modified by the system whether in the current or prior sessions. In this embodiment the command bar provides a share icon an all icon and a remove icon .

The user can select individual photos for sharing by selecting individual cells indicated by the check boxes . Alternatively the user can select the all icon to select all of the photos in the photo section . If all of the photos in the photo section are currently selected then selecting the all icon can deselect all of the photos in the photo section . The share icon can bring up a sharing selection interface to select the methods for sharing the photos selected in the photo section . The remove icon can remove the photos that are selected in the photo section as indicated by the check boxes in the cells so that those photos are no longer subject to sharing in this session of the photo sharing interface . A confirm window can be brought up when the remove photo icon is selected asking for the user to select yes or cancel before actually removing the selected photos. If the user selects yes then the photos are removed and the user is returned to the photo sharing interface and if the user selects cancel then the photos are not removed and the user is returned to the photo sharing interface .

If the user selects the Email option then the system can open the appropriate electronic mail client on the device attach the photos and allow the user to enter the e mail addresses of the intended recipients. If the user selects the MMS option then the system can open the appropriate messaging client on the device attach the photos and allow the user to enter the phone numbers of the intended recipients. When sending photos using the MMS option the system can automatically reduce the photos to small file size. If the user selects one of the various social networking photo sharing or other website options then the system can open an Internet browser on the device accessing the user s home page on the selected site and upload the selected photos. The system can include user selectable default profiles to be applied to content based on the method selected for exporting sharing of the content. After exporting sending uploading the selected photos using the selected sharing options the user can be returned to the sharing selection interface . Alternatively if the device or photo sharing client exits the user from the system then when the user returns to the system the system can return to the photo sharing interface with the same photos selected for sharing.

Before sharing exporting selected content the user can elect to modify or remove the metadata information associated with a content item manually or by using predetermined profiles or both. Manual modification of the metadata information for an individual content item can be done when the metadata information is displayed for that content item using the overlay indicators . Users can also create any number of customized profiles for metadata modification. These customized metadata profiles can include for example a custom location for all shared content preset taken by information comments website address copyright and other metadata information available in EXIF IPTC XMP or other metadata fields. The geolocation directional and altitude data can also be modified or added manually or by using customized profiles.

When selected content items are shared exported if no modification profile has been selected then the content will be shared with no further metadata modification. A profile can be created to modify specific metadata fields automatically or manually.

A default profile can be selected or created for the system to remove or modify all or specific metadata fields associated with content items before they are shared. For example a standard profile for removing all metadata for any shared content can be the default profile option. Other standard profile options can include but are not limited to removing geolocation data removing date and time data adding or overwriting taken by data and or adding copyright data. An unlimited number of profiles can be created or selected by the user to be automatically applied to any content that is shared from the device or application and different profiles can be used for different types of content or in different situations. In other words once an automatic profile has been selected it can be applied to all content as it is shared unless the profile has been set to show a decision prompt when content is shared.

A common use for modifying or adding geolocation metadata as an automatic profile is for sharing artwork and photography on photo sharing and social network sites and automatically providing business address information. Automatic profiles can be created for EXIF IPTC XMP or other format metadata that include automatically modifying and removing specific metadata fields or deleting the entire metadata file and its contents. Geolocation metadata is often stored in EXIF metadata fields so use of an automatic profile to remove all geolocation data from content as it is shared would include deleting any geolocation metadata in an associated EXIF metadata file. When a profile has been implemented by the system it will automatically apply to all content items to which it is associated when that content is selected and or exported and or shared from the device. For example text instant message email internet website online storage social network local storage file transfer and other methods for transferring digital content.

At block the metadata modification component determines if there is a profile for the particular content type to be shared. If there is an applicable preselected profile for the content type then at block the metadata modification component applies the content type profile to the content and at block the content is shared exported and or saved with the modified metadata. If there is not an applicable preselected profile for the content type then control moves to block .

At block the metadata modification component determines if there is a preselected general default profile to be applied to content before it is shared. If there is a preselected general default profile then at block the metadata modification component applies the default profile to the content and at block the content is shared exported and or saved with the modified metadata. If there is not a preselected general default profile then control moves to block .

At block the metadata modification component allows the user to manually modify the metadata associated with the selected content or to select one or more profiles to be used on the content. At block the metadata modification component applies any user selected profiles to the metadata associated with the content. Then at block the content is shared exported and or saved with the modified or unmodified metadata.

While exemplary embodiments incorporating the principles of the present invention have been disclosed hereinabove the present invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. Instead this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention using its general principles. Further this application is intended to cover such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this invention pertains and which fall within the limits of the appended claims.

