---

title: Superconducting multi-bit digital mixer
abstract: A superconducting multi-bit digital mixer, designed using rapid single flux quantum (RSFQ) logic, for multiplying two independent digital streams, at least one of these comprising a plurality of parallel bit lines, wherein the output is also a similar plurality of bit lines. In a preferred embodiment, one of the digital streams represents a local oscillator signal, and the other digital stream digital radio frequency input from an analog-to-digital converter. The multi-bit mixer comprises an array of bit-slices, with the local oscillator signal generated using shift registers. This multi-bit mixer is suitable for an integrated circuit with application to a broadband digital radio frequency receiver, a digital correlation receiver, or a digital radio frequency transmitter. A synchronous pulse distribution network is used to ensure proper operation at data rates of 20 GHz or above.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276615&OS=09276615&RS=09276615
owner: Hypres, Inc.
number: 09276615
owner_city: Elmsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140603
---
The present application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 847 023 filed Mar. 19 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 744 541 issued Jun. 3 3014 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 196 494 filed Aug. 2 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 401 600 issued Mar. 19 2013 which claims benefit of priority from Provisional Patent Application 61 369 927 Superconducting and semiconductor superconductor hybrid systems and devices and methods for packaging and manufacturing thereof filed Aug. 2 2010 the entirety of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under U.S. Office of Naval Research Contracts N00173 07 C 4002 and N00014 08 C 0603. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to digital radio frequency receiver technology and more particularly a digital downconverter circuit implemented using superconducting electronic components.

In a digital radio frequency receiver sometimes known as a software radio or software defined radio or SDR the conversion to digital is carried out directly on the RF signal coming from the antenna. As indicated in the same set of operations need to be carried out as in but now in the digital domain. These include a digital LO a digital mixer really a digital multiplier and a digital decimation filter DDF the digital equivalent of a low pass filter . These digital operations are implemented without noise interference or non ideal behavior and may be easily reprogrammed for different communication parameters. Furthermore the digital radio frequency receiver is compatible with a very broad RF bandwidth which may comprise a plurality of communication signals. These advantages are increasingly desirable for modern RF receivers. However a requirement of the digital radio frequency approach is that for optimum performance the RF ADC must operate at a very high sample rate typically multi GHz and in some cases also needs a plurality of parallel data bits to increase the dynamic range. This high rate requirement is because the sampling should be above the Nyquist rate twice the highest frequency component of the signal but in some cases the radio frequency signal can be undersampled so long as the sampling is precisely timed. Assuming that undersampling is not or cannot be used the following mixer and digital filter must also operate at the very high data rate with a plurality of data bits. These requirements have limited the availability of such a digital radio frequency receiver. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 956 640 7 928 875 7 903 456 7 876 869 7 728 748 7 701 286 7 680 474 7 598 897 7 443 719 7 362 125 7 313 199 7 280 623 6 781 435 Muhammad K. Staszewski R. B. Leipold D. Digital RF processing toward low cost reconfigurable radios IEEE Communications Magazine August 2005 Volume 43 Issue 8 pages 105 113 Brock D. K. Mukhanov O. A. Rosa J. Superconductor digital RF development for software radio IEEE Communications Magazine February 2001 Volume 39 Issue 2 page s 174 179 Saulnier G. J. Puckette C. M. IV Gaus R. C. Jr. Dunki Jacobs R. J. Thiel T. E. A VLSI demodulator for digital RF network applications theory and results IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications October 1990 Volume 8 Issue 8 page s 1500 1511 each of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Superconducting electronics using rapid single flux quantum RSFQ circuits provide the world s fastest digital circuits operating at rates of up to 40 GHz and higher . And indeed very fast RSFQ ADCs digital mixers and digital filters have been demonstrated. However most of these circuits have been relatively small circuits operating on a single bitstream of data. See for example U.S. application Ser. No. 11 966 897 Oversampling Digital Receiver for Radio Frequency Signals D. Gupta and U.S. Pat. No. 7 280 623 Digital RF Correlator for Multipurpose Digital Signal Processing D. Gupta et al. both of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

For the case of a superconducting digital mixer several designs of a fast single bit RSFQ digital mixer were presented by Kirichenko et al. Superconducting Digital Mixer U.S. Pat. No. 7 680 474 expressly incorporated herein by reference one of which is shown schematically in . This is based on the mapping convention of where binary multiplication of a bipolar signal maps onto the exclusive OR XOR function of a unipolar binary signal.

To improve this technology and to make it more practical multibit implementations must be developed. The present invention focuses on the development of an integrated multibit digital mixer based on RSFQ technology building upon the foundations of an earlier single bit mixer of Kirichenko.

The present technology provides an XOR based mixer cell similar to that in which can be used to design and lay out as an integrated circuit a multi bit mixer cell which can also perform at data rates of tens of GHz. Two preferred embodiments are presented an n 1 mixer in which an n bit digitized data stream is mixed with a 1 bit LO and a 1 k mixer in which a 1 bit data stream is mixed with an k bit LO where n and k represent integers greater than 1. Both embodiments are organized into single bit slices that can be tiled together in an IC to scale to a structure with an arbitrary number of bits. Furthermore both embodiments make use of a shift register SR as a code generator for the LO incorporate a synchronous pulse distribution network SPDN for proper multibit timing and are otherwise very similar in design and performance. The data and the LO may operate at different clock rates since the mixer elements themselves are asynchronous. Furthermore it is shown how the multibit mixer may be integrated with a multi bit ADC and a multi bit DDF to form an improved multi bit digital radio frequency receiver.

Note that in these cases each bit is processed separately in parallel no carry operations are required for this procedure. This is illustrated with the 3 bit multiplication table in using the same mapping convention per bit as in . Note also that this mapping cannot be directly extended to full n k multiplication where carry operations would be necessary making the required circuit much more complicated.

A block diagram for an I Q digital 1 k mixer according to the invention is shown in with two 1 k mixers data and LO clock lines. Each mixer is comprised of k slices typically arrayed vertically each slice comprised of a cell structure such as that shown in . This generates a k bit mixer output for each of the two I and Q channels. Unlike the block diagram of which shows a separate LO generator the circuit of preferably integrates the multi bit LO generator elements for each bit into the mixer slice itself. Note specifically the shift register SR on the right of which comprises the LO generator for the given bit. Prototype mixer circuits with a 1 3 3 bit LO and a 3 1 3 bit input data are presented below in more detail with IC fabrication and experimental test results confirming proper operation.

An alternative embodiment of a 1 k multi bit mixer is also presented which comprises an external LO generator rather than the internal LO generator as shown in . In this example with a block diagram as shown in the LO multi bit code is synthesized in advance and stored in a room temperature memory with a fast readout. This multi bit code is then serialized and sent out to the superconducting circuit as a single bit sequence in order to avoid timing skew between the bits . This LO code is then deserialized and resynchronized in a fast cache memory that is integrated with the multi bit mixer. Further details of this embodiment are described below.

Multi bit digital mixer circuits of the invention are not limited to application to a digital downconverter in a digital radio frequency receiver. They may also be used in a digital correlation receiver where a more general synthesized digital signal may be used instead of a digital local oscillator. Alternatively a similar multi bit digital mixer may be used as the digital upconverting element in a digital radio frequency transmission system.

It is therefore an object to provide a multi bit digital mixer comprising at least one Josephson junction configured in a circuit to receive a first digital input signal and a second digital input signal and to generate a multi bit parallel output signal representing the multiplication product of the first digital input signal and the second digital input signal.

The second digital input signal may be received from a digital local oscillator. The digital LO signal may be generated using a shift register.

The first digital input signal may be communicated over at least one matched pair of complementary binary inputs.

The circuit may comprise a plurality of bit slices having a corresponding bit slice for each parallel bit of the output signal.

The circuit may comprise at least one respective XOR based mixer cell for each bit of the multi bit parallel output signal.

Each of the first digital input signal and the second digital input signal or both may comprise a multi bit signal. The multi bit signals may be parallel or serial.

At least one of the first and second digital input signals may comprise a multi bit parallel signal which incorporates a synchronous pulse distribution network SPDN for proper multibit timing. The SPDN may provide global bit synchronization for both input signals.

The circuit may comprise at least one asynchronous RSFQ mixer. For example the mixer may be an asynchronous XOR device.

The first digital input signal and the second digital input signal may have respectively different clock rates.

The first digital input signal may receive a signal derived from an analog to digital converter and the second digital input signal receives a signal derived from a digital local oscillator. The analog to digital converter may receive a modulated radio frequency signal and the circuit may be configured to mix the modulated radio frequency signal to generate the multi bit parallel output signal representing at least a difference frequency of the modulated radio frequency signal and the digital local oscillator.

The circuit may be configured to generate the multi bit parallel output signal representing the multiplication product of the first digital input signal and the second digital input signal substantially without a carry operation.

The circuit may further comprise a semiconductor circuit configured to generate at least one of the first digital input signal and the second digital input signal further comprising an interface circuit configured to present information from the semiconductor circuit to the circuit comprising the at least one Josephson junction.

The circuit may also comprise a semiconductor circuit further comprising an interface circuit configured to present information from the circuit comprising at least one Josephson junction to the semiconductor circuit.

The circuit may be configured as a digital down converter of a digital radio frequency receiver receiving analog radio frequency information modulated on a carrier having a carrier frequency of at least 250 MHz comprising a superconducting analog to digital converter having a sampling rate of at least 1 GHz and a multi bit output. Thus for example a 40 GHz analog to digital converter may be processed to produce a 3 bit signal at a rate of 5 GHz.

The circuit may be configured to produce an updated multi bit parallel output signal at a rate of at least 20 GHz.

The circuit may be configured as a receiver for receiving quadrature phase modulated signals further comprising an analog to digital converter digitizing a radio frequency signal at a digital sample rate of at least 1.5 GHz wherein at least two local oscillator signals are provided by at least one shift register configured as a code generator to each of at least two multi bit digital mixers each multi bit mixer being configured to produce a multi bit parallel output signal representing the multiplication product of the digital output of the analog to digital converter and a respective representation of the local oscillator signals wherein the local oscillator signals are respectively time shifted replicas of each other.

Another object provides a digital mixing method comprising receiving two asynchronous rapid single quantum flux RSFQ signals at least one of the received RSFQ signals comprising a plurality of parallel bits wherein each signal bit is represented as complementary signal pairs ensuring proper timing of the plurality of parallel bits of the two asynchronous RSFQ signals with a synchronous pulse distribution network SPDN and mixing the properly timed two asynchronous RSFQ signals with an array of XOR based asynchronous mixer cells at least one for each parallel bit line.

Digital down conversion requires multiplication of a digitized radio frequency signal with a digital local oscillator signal. A first generation digital radio frequency receiver following was developed by HYPRES Inc. see D. Gupta et al. Digital Channelizing Radio Frequency Receiver . vol. 17 no. 2 pp. 430 437 June 2007 expressly incorporated herein by reference also known as an All Digital Receiver ADR . This included a 1 1 bit mixer to process a 1 bit data stream from a modulator ADC and a 1 bit square wave from a local oscillator. The next steps in the development of improved digital radio frequency receivers are the processing of either n bit data streams from advanced low pass LP or band pass BP modulators or the use of a k bit local oscillator stream.

The present approach is based on the design and successful testing of the 1 1 bit mixer A. Kirichenko et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 680 474 shown in . The multiplication table for the 1 1 bit mixer and its mapping convention for a bipolar data stream D and a particular local oscillator code C are shown in . This allows one to treat multiplication as an exclusive OR XOR function with data and code inputs.

Note that the original design of a 1 1 bit mixer differs slightly from the improved one shown in . In its original version the D cell D flip flop or DFF and inverter N cell were combined into a D cell with complementary outputs DFFC and a multiplexer cell MUX was used instead of a matched pair of RSN cells RS flip flops with nondestructive readout . Functionally these two designs are largely equivalent and while the original design was slightly more compact it was less robust and more susceptible to stray magnetic fields limiting its performance margins. Furthermore the logic for generating the four phases of the local oscillator was modified using the Multiphase Clock Circuit of D. Kirichenko U.S. Pat. No. 7 786 786 expressly incorporated herein by reference to overcome the susceptibility of the earlier design to any error in the toggle flip flop TFF or simply T tree causing a permanent phase slip between I and Q streams. This multiphase clock circuit comprised a chain of D flip flops.

The rule of action for the design in can also be formulated as data bit D reads complement code complement data reads C. This statement is a guide to understand the block diagram depicted in . The input data stream D is converted into two streams D and its complement by splitting and passing input data through a D cell and an inverter N . These data are then mixed in I and Q channels which are each formed by a pair of RSN cells. Set S and reset R input terminals of each RSN pair are controlled by an LO code in such a way that either D or its complement data stream can go through the RSNs. There is no signal collisions at the mixer s I and Q outputs MI and MQ in because either D or its complement exist and only one RSN cell of a pair is set by the applied code. The LO code in this particular 1 1 bit mixer implementation is generated by applying an LO clock LOCLK to a binary tree of toggle flip flops T . The bit streams shown next to the T cells illustrate how an input bit sequence from LOCLK generates the LO codes C and . Note also that the data clock CLK and LO clock LOCLK are distinct and can be at different frequencies the mixer elements themselves are asynchronous.

The mapping convention for the 1 1 bit mixer can be generalized to a k bit mixer as illustrated in . One can see that the multiplication function can be replaced by an bit parallel exclusive OR XOR operation and the mixing function can be rephrased as a simple rule D reads out C .

The key element of a bit slice of the 1 k bit mixer is a pair of RSN cells with their states controlled by an LO code and read out by D or its complement . The multi bit mixer LO code can be quite complicated and simple approaches like the binary tree of T flip flops do not work. To generate LO code for each slice a shift register SR based structure depicted in was developed which represents the internal structure of the cell labeled SR at the right of . The SR is initialized by a set local oscillator SLO pulse sent to all SR stages. The resulting state of a particular D cell depends on its connectivity with the SLO distribution line. The SLO pulse either goes in or passes by the D cell of a particular SR stage. Then the LO clock LOCLK reads out the content of the leftmost D cell and shifts the rest from right to left. Finally all SR stages will be read out by LOCLK pulses and then be rewritten by another SLO pulse. Note that SLO pulses can be derived from the LOCLK sequence by sending them to a frequency divider LO FD in . The required SLO pulse frequency depends on the length of LO code representation. The propagation of SLO pulses between bit slices is controlled by the LOCLK as shown in . Note that the LO sequence in is hard wired by the structure of the cells in the sequence is 1100 from left to right.

As shown in the generated LO code goes to a pair of cells composed of a D cell and an inverter N to be converted into complementary streams of C and . States of RSN cells are controlled by C and but read out by D and complement as a result of performing a mixing function.

The 1 k bit mixer described above can be converted into an n 1 bit mixer without making many changes to the building blocks. Assuming that an n bit input data stream can be delivered to the I and Q mixers through a properly modified SPDN and then convert each data bit into a complementary pair of D and inside a bit slice the block diagram depicted in is arrived at. This differs from the 1 k bit mixer only by the addition of a pair of D cell and an inverter on the left side of block diagram in .

The block diagram in of the entire I Q n 1 mixer looks similar to 1 k mixer but the SPDN for the n 1 mixer distributes n bit data instead of a one bit number and its complement. All pulses inside the SPDN are controlled by the clock and their delays to I and Q mixers are equalized.

Several chips were designed to test our k bit and n bit mixers and their components. All chips were fabricated using the HYPRES superconducting Nb Josephson junction IC process with critical current density J 4.5 kA cm. The chip layout of a 1 3 mixer is shown in . This matches the block diagram in except for the addition of frequency divider CLKFD. This is used to generate the Nyquist clock and other pulses required for the digital decimation filters DDFs that follow the I Q mixer. They are delivered to the DDFs by the SPDN. The LO and CLK frequency dividers were kept separate to avoid common locking of both frequencies.

For testing purposes a 3 bit LO code I and Q components with a length of 8 was used as presented in with the time dependence of the weighted magnitude of the 3 bit LO code plotted in . During testing the LO code of I and Q LSBs was deliverately kept all 1s and all 0s and codes of the other two bits shifted by 90 . This artificial code is read out to the RSN pair based mixing units thence to be read out by either D or its complement . If all applied data D are 1s the mixer s output is inverted code. If data are not applied all 0s the mixer s output is just a replication of the stored LO code.

This superconducting 1 3 mixer chip was tested at a temperature T 4.2 K using a low frequency 0.5 MHz for convenience. shows the results illustrating the correct behavior. Note that the correct output sequence of 8 pulses appears after the SLO pulse with the predetermined delay of 3 CLK pulses that is a signature of the 1 k mixer s design.

A 3 1 mixer with an LO code I and Q as shown in was designed and tested with the time dependence of the 1 bit LO code shown in . Note that the LO code is identical for all I or Q bits but shifted by 90 from each other. An automated low frequency testing setup was used to test this chip at low frequency kHz . illustrates the correct operation of the chip when a test sequence of four 3 bit 0s and eight 3 bit 1s is applied. Four 0s are read out as LO code once but eight 1s are read out as inverted code two times in full agreement with .

Although the functionality of these chips was tested for convenience at low frequencies the circuit designs are expected to function up to frequencies of order 20 GHz and higher.

Multi bit mixers are parts of future digital radio frequency receivers that also comprise ADCs and digital decimation filters with appropriate output drivers. shows the layout of a LP ADR all digital receiver on a 10 10 mm superconducting chip with the mixer layout of located between the ADC on the left and the DDF on the right.

Multi bit mixers of both types provide binary weighted outputs so they should be fed into the appropriate slices of the digital decimation filter. The geometry of the ADR chip is configured in such a way that the l bit output of I Q mixer matches the l bit input of the corresponding I Q DDF. Such an interface between the I Q mixer and a corresponding DDF also requires an additional adaptor block the block labeled MDDF in to synchronize their timing. The DDF used features a clock skew of one clock per bit slice. The interface is designed to delay the l bit output of the mixer by sending it through a co flow shift register with the number of stages equal to l. As a result the mixer s outputs are properly delayed and matched to the timing of the DDF.

Multi bit mixers provide an increased number of input bits for the DDF. That requires an increase in the number of bit slices for the DDF. The chip shown in has two I and Q filters each comprising 17 bit slices that occupy almost all the chip space available for filters in this particular configuration.

The embodiments of the multi bit digital mixer presented above incorporate an integrated hard wired digital LO circuit. These are compact and efficient but in some cases a reprogrammable digital LO may be desirable. This may be achieved using an external digital generator but the ultra high speed operation of this digital mixer circuit requires careful consideration of synchronization. In the approach illustrated in a large capacity room temperature semiconductor memory was combined with a fast cryogenic RSFQ cache integrated on the same chip with an RSFQ digital signal processor. The asymmetric nature of the required memory operation fast readout infrequent addressing no writing functions allows utilization of pipeline loading in order to avoid latency issues.

For multi bit mixing or correlation the room temperature memory should ideally supply multi bit words at the sampling clock frequency 20 30 GHz . However it is impractical to send all bits in parallel due to inevitable inter bit jitter during transmission over the rather long distance between a room temperature memory module and a cryogenic RF DSP. To avoid this problem data was serially supplied and then on chip data deserialization and re synchronization performed. In the serialized coded LO data is labeled SC and the serializer clock is labeled SCCLK.

A particular objective was to find a commercially available memory unit with a relatively deep storage capacity at least 64 Mbit and capable of providing a 30 Gbps single bit output data. These requirements match well to those of Arbitrary Bit Sequence Generators ABSGs such as the Sympuls BMG 30G 64M 30 GBit s pattern generator see for example www.sympuls aachen.de en bmg.html . This generates programmable binary sequences operating with an external clock generator between 1 and 30 Gbit s with up to 64 Mb of memory.

The main function of the cache circuit is to receive high speed serial data SC from the ABSG at room temperature perform data synchronization find end of word and deserialize data into parallel output words for the digital mixer. To facilitate synchronization the last bit in the data word was reserved as the end of word bit.

The deserializing cache memory modules are integrated with the multi bit digital mixer on the same chip. In order to facilitate the integration the previous design of the 1 k multi bit mixer was modified. shows the block diagram adapted for integration with the cache memory circuits. This comprises two deserializer DS units one each for the I and Q channels with a clock control unit CU that controls both of them. The various clock and data signals are synchronized in a synchronous pulse distribution network SPDN very similar to that in .

The cell based design of single bit slices of the mixer blocks in is shown in similar to that in . Specifically a buffer the rightmost DFF was placed between the deserializer and the mixer for synchronizing the master clock CLK of the mixer with the LO code C. The LO code is stored in RSN cells for several sampling clock CLK cycles until the next parallelized LO code arrives. With this timing design the cache and the mixer can operate under different independent clocks SCCLK and CLK . Thus the room temperature memory does not have to be synchronized with the RSFQ processor master clock. The LO code loaded to the mixer LO inputs can be used for multiple cycles of RF data.

In a prototype device demonstration due to space limitations on the test chip 5 mm 5 mm it was decided to limit the LO word length to 3 bits for I and Q components. Consequently the 8 bit cache was divided into a 4 bit block I DS and a 4 bit block Q DS in order to accommodate 1 bit for synchronization 6 bits for the LO code payload 3 bit I and 3 bit Q and 1 bit for monitor.

This design is adequate for digital radio frequency channelizing receivers since the LO code is relatively short. The loading rate of the room temperature memory limits the maximum frequency of the LO for a 30 Gbps loading rate a 3.75 GHz maximum LO frequency can be realized. For higher LO frequencies multiple parallel cache modules would have to be used in a pipelined fashion. For longer templates necessary for a digital radio frequency cross correlation receiver a longer on chip cache would be required.

The present embodiments are considered in all respects to be illustrative and not restrictive and all changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced within. The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The disclosure shall be interpreted to encompass all of the various combinations and permutations of the elements steps and claims disclosed herein to the extent consistent and shall not be limited to specific combinations as provided in the detailed embodiments.

