---

title: Sensor unit and motion detection device
abstract: A sensor unit includes a sensor section adapted to detect a motion, and an announcement section adapted to announce a state of an output signal of the sensor section.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09643069&OS=09643069&RS=09643069
owner: SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
number: 09643069
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140807
---
The entire disclose of Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 164823 filed Aug. 8 2013 is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In recent years a device for analyzing a motion of a test object a human has been demanded in a variety of fields.

By analyzing the motion form of the test object an athlete such as a trajectory of a swing of sports equipment such as a golf club tennis racket or a baseball bat to thereby select the sports equipment suitable for the test object and improve the motion form based on the analysis result improvement in athletic ability can be achieved.

As such an analysis device and an analysis method of the motion for example JP A 2010 110382 discloses a motion detection device using an optical motion capture device and an analysis method. The device is for shooting a measurement target object a test object and sports equipment attached with a marker using an infrared camera or the like and then calculating the movement trajectory of the marker using the image thus shot to thereby analyze the motion.

Further as the analysis device and the analysis method of a motion for example JP A 2008 73210 discloses a motion detection device and an analysis method for detecting the motion of the test object due to a swing of sports equipment using an inertia sensor attached to the test object and then analyzing the motion based on the motion data of the test object output from the inertia sensor. Such a device does not require a motion capture device such as an infrared camera and therefore has an advantage that handling is simple and easy.

Here when detecting the motion of the test object using an angular velocity sensor or the like as the inertia sensor and then analyzing the motion it is required to remove a bias of the inertia sensor. In other words it is required to determine an origin of the motion of the test object.

The bias is a collective term including a zero bias occurring in the initial state prior to the start of the motion of the test object and in which the angular velocity is zero and a drift due to an external factor such as a power supply fluctuation or a temperature fluctuation.

In order to remove the bias it is required to obtain a bias value in the initial state. For example in the swing analysis of a golf club a rest period in which the test object stops is set before starting the swing. Then the bias value in the initial state is determined based on a signal output from the angular velocity sensor or the like in the rest period. In other words the origin of the motion of the test object is determined.

However since the motion swing is started after visually checking a display device of the analysis device in order to confirm that the bias value and the origin of the motion are determined there is a possibility that the appropriate swing analysis cannot be achieved due to the deviation of the visual line of the test object. Further in the case of adopting a method in which other people than the test object checks the display device and the motion swing is started in response to a sign such as a voice since other people than the test object are involved there is a problem of lacking convenience of the motion analysis.

An advantage of some aspects of the invention is to solve at least a part of the problems described above and the invention can be implemented as following forms or application examples.

A sensor unit according to this application example includes a sensor section adapted to detect a motion of a measurement object and an announcement section adapted to announce a state of an output signal of the sensor section.

According to such a sensor unit there is provided the announcement section adapted to announce the state of the output signal of the sensor section for detecting the motion of the measurement object. Therefore in the case of detecting the motion of the test object due to the swing of the sports equipment using the sensor unit it is possible for the test object gripping the sports equipment to sense the state of the output signal of the sensor section without losing the posture. Therefore according to such a sensor unit in the case in which the test object grips the sports equipment and makes a motion swing the reliability of the detection of the motion can be enhanced.

In the sensor unit according to the application example described above it is preferable that the announcement section announces whether or not the measurement object of the sensor section is in a rest state.

According to such a sensor unit it is possible to detect the motion of the measurement object with the sensor section and then announce that the measurement object is in the rest state. Therefore in the case of detecting the motion of the test object due to the swing of the sports equipment since the test object senses the rest state and then starts the motion the bias in the output signal of the sensor section in the rest state can be removed.

In the sensor unit according to the application example described above it is preferable that the announcement section performs a first determination on whether or not a value of an output signal of the sensor section becomes lower than a first threshold value in a predetermined period and announces whether or not the first determination is positive.

According to such a sensor unit the first determination on whether or not the value of the output signal of the sensor section becomes lower than the first threshold value is continuously performed for a predetermined period and then the announcement section can announce the result. Therefore by using the output value of the sensor section when the measurement object is in the rest state as the first threshold value the determination on whether or not the measurement object is in the rest state can continuously be performed for a predetermined period.

Therefore by starting the motion after sensing the fact that the rest state lasts for a predetermined period the accuracy of removal of the bias in the output signal of the sensor section in the rest state can be enhanced.

In the sensor unit according to the application example described above it is preferable that the announcement section performs a second determination on whether or not a value of an output signal of the sensor section exceeds a second threshold value and announces whether or not the second determination is positive.

According to such a sensor unit the second determination on whether or not the value of the output signal of the sensor section exceeds the second threshold value is performed and then the announcement section can announce the result. Therefore by using the maximum detectable output value of the sensor section in detecting the motion of the measurement object or an output value corresponding to the preferable motion as the second threshold value it is possible to perform the determination on the fact that the motion of the measurement object causes an overrange with respect to the measurement range of the sensor section or on the fact that the motion of the measurement object is preferable.

In the sensor unit according to the application example described above it is preferable that the announcement section announces whether or not transmission of an output signal of the sensor section to another device connected to the sensor unit is complete.

According to such a sensor unit the announcement section can announce whether or not the transmission of the output signal of the sensor section to another device connected to the sensor unit is complete.

Therefore it is possible to make the test object performing the swing of the sports equipment to be the measurement object sense the fact that the output signal due to the motion detected by the sensor section has been transmitted to other devices and thus the subsequent measurement can promptly be performed.

In the sensor unit according to the application example described above it is preferable that the announcement section makes an announcement using at least one of light a sound and a vibration.

According to such a sensor unit by announcing the state of the output signal of the sensor section using at least one of the light and the sound the announcement section can make the test object performing the swing of the sports equipment to be the measurement object visually or aurally sense the state.

In the sensor unit according to the application example described above it is preferable that there is further included a housing adapted to house the sensor section and at least a part of the announcement section is disposed on a side surface of the housing.

According to such a sensor unit since the announcement section is disposed on the side surface of the housing the announcement by the announcement section can easily be sensed from the outside of the sensor unit. Therefore it is possible to make the test object performing the swing of the sports equipment to be the measurement object easily sense the announcement by the announcement section.

In the sensor unit according to the application example described above it is preferable that there is further included a holding section adapted to attach the housing to the measurement object and at least a part of the announcement section is provided across ends of the holding section.

According to such a sensor unit the sensor unit is attached to the measurement object via the holding section and the announcement section is provided to the holding section. Therefore it is possible to make the test object sense the announcement by the announcement section provided to the holding section irrespective of the attachment position of the sensor unit.

A motion detection device according to this application example includes the sensor unit described above and an analysis unit adapted to analyze the motion of the measurement object.

According to such a motion detection device the sensor unit is provided to the measurement object. The sensor unit is provided with the announcement section for announcing the state of the motion detection device and the state of the output signal from the sensor section based on the motion of the measurement object. Therefore when detecting the motion of the test object due to the swing of the sports equipment using the sensor unit it is possible for the test object gripping the sports equipment to sense the state of the output signal of the sensor section without losing the posture. Therefore according to such a motion detection device in the case in which the test object grips the sports equipment and makes a motion swing the reliability of the analysis of the motion can be enhanced.

In the motion detection device according to the application example described above the sensor unit transmits an output signal of the sensor section to the analysis unit the analysis unit analyzes the output signal and then transmits a trigger signal to the announcement section of the sensor unit when a predetermined condition representing the state of the output signal is fulfilled and the announcement section makes an announcement upon reception of the trigger signal.

According to such a motion detection device the announcement section can receive the trigger signal representing the state of the output signal in the analysis unit and then announce the state of the output signal in the analysis unit based on the trigger signal. Therefore it is possible to make the test object sense the fact that the output signal of the sensor section has been transmitted to the analysis unit and at the same time prompt the test object to start the subsequent measurement or to redo the measurement.

Hereinafter some embodiments of the invention will be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings. It should be noted that in the drawings described hereinafter the dimensions and the ratios of the constituents are arbitrarily made different from those of the actual constituents in some cases in order to provide the constituents with recognizable sizes in the drawings.

The motion detection device including a sensor unit according to the first embodiment is a device for detecting a motion of a test object M shown in and using the motion form of the test object M such as a swing trajectory of a golf club or other sports equipment such as a tennis racket or a baseball bat for the motion analysis.

Hereinafter the case of applying the motion detection device to the golf club will be explained as an example of the embodiment.

The motion detection device shown in and A through C is configured including the sensor unit the announcement section and the analysis unit .

The sensor unit is configured including the sensor section a housing for housing the sensor section and a holding section .

The sensor section is configured including the announcement section a sensor and a control section . Further the sensor section is housed in the housing described later.

The sensor is capable of detecting a predetermined physical quantity due to the motion and then outputting a signal corresponding to the physical quantity such as acceleration angular velocity velocity or angular acceleration thus detected.

The sensor is provided with three axis detection acceleration sensors and hereinafter collectively referred to as three axis acceleration sensors for detecting the acceleration in X axis Y axis and Z axis directions. Further the sensor is provided with three axis detection gyro sensors angular velocity sensors and hereinafter collectively referred to as three axis gyro sensors for detecting the angular velocity in the X axis Y axis and Z axis directions. The sensor is provided as a six axis detection motion sensor including the three axis acceleration sensors and the three axis gyro sensors.

Here as the three axis gyro sensors the angular velocity sensors through there can be used vibrating angular velocity sensors. The vibrating angular velocity sensor vibrates a vibrating body at a constant frequency. When the acceleration is applied to the vibrating body a Coriolis force is generated and the vibrating body vibrates in a different direction due to the Coriolis force. By detecting the displacement due to the Coriolis force to thereby detect the angular velocity the physical quantity due to the motion can be detected.

It should be noted that in the motion detection device according to the present embodiment the configuration of the sensor is not particularly limited but can arbitrarily be changed in accordance with the measurement object on which the motion detection is performed.

The control section is configured including a data processing section A a power supply section B and a communication section C. To the control section there are connected the sensors through and through the announcement section described later and the analysis unit .

The data processing section A performs packet data conversion on the output signals of the sensors through and through together with for example temporal information time base . Further the data processing section A transmits the signal obtained by the packet data conversion to the communication section C. It should be noted that in the explanation below the signal obtained by converting the output signals of the sensors through and through into the packet data is referred to as a motion output signal . 

The communication section C performs a process of transmitting the motion output signal the packet data which has been transmitted from the data processing section A to the analysis unit . It should be noted that the transmission method between the sensor unit and the analysis unit is not particularly limited and wireless communication or the like can be used.

The control section is provided with the power supply section B which supplies electric power necessary for the operations of the sensor the control section and so on. The configuration of the power supply section B is not particularly limited and a primary battery e.g. a dry cell battery or a lithium battery and a secondary battery e.g. a nickel metal hydride battery or a lithium ion battery can be used. It should be noted that the power supply section B can also be provided to the analysis unit to supply the sensor section with the electric power.

The holding section is an attachment for attaching the sensor section to the sports equipment which is the detection object of the motion detection device in order to detect the swing trajectory of the sports equipment.

The holding section is the attachment for attaching the sensor section to the sports equipment such as the golf club as shown in in the case of applying the motion detection device to the golf club . The shape of the holding section is not particularly limited but is only required to make it possible to mount the sensor section on a shaft or a grip and at the same time attach the sensor section so as to be detachably fitted in the case of applying the motion detection device to the golf club . Further it is preferable for the sensor section to be attached to the golf club so that the announcement section described later face to the same direction as an end of the grip . It should be noted that the holding section can also be changed arbitrarily in accordance with the type of the sports equipment.

As shown in the announcement section is provided to the sensor section . As shown in the announcement section is configured including light emitting sections . The announcement section is provided for visually announcing the state of the output signal of the sensor section and a variety of states of the motion detection device to the test object M. The announcement section is for announcing the state of the output signal of the sensor section and a variety of states of the motion detection device to the test object M using the blink of the light emitting sections . The announcement section of the motion detection device according to the present embodiment is configured including a first light emitting section and a second light emitting section as an example. The first light emitting section and the second light emitting section use a light emitting element such as a light emitting diode and are therefore capable of emitting light with a plurality of colors e.g. red and green . Therefore the announcement section can announce the state of the motion output signal of the sensor section and a variety of states of the motion detection device using the difference in color of the light emitted by the light emitting sections .

It should be noted that it is preferable for the announcement section to be disposed on a side surface an exterior surface of the housing of the sensor section .

For example in the case of mounting the sensor unit on the back side of the shaft of the golf club described later if the announcement section is disposed only on the obverse surface of the housing the test object M is hindered from visually recognizing sensing the light emission by the announcement section in some cases. Therefore by disposing the announcement section also on the side surface of the housing it is possible to make the test object M visually recognize sense the light emission by the announcement section irrespective of the mounting configuration of the sensor unit . Further it is preferable for the announcement section to be disposed on the both ends in the width direction e.g. a direction intersecting with the direction in which the shaft extends of the housing of the sensor unit . In the swing of the golf club it is possible to make the test object M visually recognize sense the light emission by the announcement section irrespective of the dominant arm.

As shown in the analysis unit is configured including a processing section CPU a communication section an operation section a ROM a RAM a nonvolatile memory and a display section .

The communication section performs a process of receiving the motion output signal the packet data transmitted from the sensor unit and then transmitting the motion output signal to the processing section . The operation section performs a process of obtaining operation data from the test object M or a subsidiary not shown and then transmitting the operation data to the processing section . The ROM stores a program for the processing section to perform a variety of calculation processes and control processes and various programs data and so on to realize application functions. The RAM is a storage section used as a working area of the processing section and temporarily storing for example the program and data retrieved from the ROM the data input from the operation section and the result of the calculation performed by the processing section with the various programs and application functions. The display section is for displaying the processing result of the processing section as letters graphs or other images. The display section corresponds to for example a CRT an LCD and a touch panel display. It should be noted that it is also possible to arrange that the functions of the operation section and the display section are realized by a single touch panel display.

The processing section is configured including an operation section a determination section and an analysis section . The processing section performs a variety of calculation processes analysis processes determination processes etc. on the motion output signal received from the sensor unit via the communication section in accordance with the program stored in the ROM .

The processing section performs the operational treatment of the motion output signal transmitted from the sensor unit using the operation section . Further the processing section performs the determination on whether or not the test object M is in the rest state based on the result of the operational treatment using the determination section and at the same time stores a bias value of the sensor in the RAM . In other words the determination section determines whether or not the golf club attached with the sensor unit is in an origin state of the swing.

Further the processing section performs the operational treatment of the motion output signal transmitted from the sensor unit using the operation section . The processing section performs the determination on whether or not the motion detection has appropriately been performed based on the result of the operational treatment using the determination section . Further the processing section performs the motion analysis of the measurement object based on the result of the operational treatment using the analysis section . The processing section transmits a trigger result signal regarding the determination on the rest state the determination on the appropriateness of the motion detection the completion of the motion analysis result and so on to the announcement section .

It should be noted that as the analysis unit a personal computer a smartphone including a tablet terminal or the like having the function described above can be used.

As shown in in the case in which the swing motion of the golf club by the test object M is detected using the motion detection device and then the swing is analyzed using the motion analysis method described later the test object M can recognize the state of the motion detection device by visually recognizing the light emission by the announcement section . Therefore it is possible for the test object M to make a swing without deviating from the visual line e.

It should be noted that if the housing of the sensor section comes into sight view field of the test object M the test object M is bothered when making a swing and there is a possibility that the swing becomes different from the usual swing. Therefore it is preferable for the housing of the sensor section to be mounted on the back side of the shaft viewed from the test object M in the rest state at address prior to making the swing of the golf club . In such a case by disposing the announcement section on the side surface of the housing of the sensor section as described above the test object M can visually recognize sense presence or absence of the light emission by the announcement section with ease.

The motion analysis method according to the present embodiment includes a measurement preparation process a motion measurement process a transmission process for transmitting the motion output signal obtained in the motion measurement process to the analysis unit and an analysis process for analyzing the motion output signal transmitted in the transmission process. Further the motion analysis method includes a rest state announcement process for announcing the completion of the measurement preparation process a measurement completion announcement process for announcing the completion of the motion measurement process and a transmission completion announcement process for announcing the completion of the transmission of the motion output signal from the sensor unit to the analysis unit .

Each of the processes of the motion analysis method using the motion detection device will be explained step by step with reference to the flowchart shown in . It should be noted that as the explanation of the motion analysis method a motion analysis method with the motion detection device applied to the golf club will be explained.

The measurement preparation process is a process for performing the measurement preparation of the motion and is a process for measuring the bias of the sensor prior to the start of the motion swing .

Here the bias is a collective term including a bias occurring in the initial state prior to the start of the motion of the test object M and in which the angular velocity is zero and a drift due to an external factor such as a power supply fluctuation or a temperature fluctuation.

In the measurement preparation process the motion output signal output in the case in which the test object M is in the rest state a so called address state while gripping the golf club is obtained by the analysis unit in the step S.

In the measurement preparation process the operational treatment of the motion output signal obtained by the analysis unit is performed using the operation section in the step S.

In the measurement preparation process the motion output signal operated by the operation section and the value of the motion output signal in the rest state as a first threshold value previously recorded on the ROM are compared to each other and then a first determination on whether or not the motion output signal becomes lower than the value of the motion output signal in the rest state as the first threshold in a certain period is performed by the determination section in the step S. It should be noted that the certain period for the determination is arbitrarily set in accordance with the measurement object and is set to 3 seconds in the present embodiment. In the case in which it is determined in the step S that the motion output signal is within the range of the rest state the process proceeds to the announcement of REST STATE IS DETECTED in the step S and at the same time the motion output signal at that moment is stored in the RAM as the bias value. Further in the case in which it is determined in the step S that the motion output signal is out of the range of the rest state the announcement of REST STATE DETECTION ERROR in the step S is performed and then the process returns to the step S to begin again with the acquisition of the motion output signal in the rest state.

The rest state announcement process is a process of announcing the result of the determination on whether or not the golf club and the test object M gripping the golf club are in the rest address state based on the motion output signal in the measurement preparation process described above.

In the rest state announcement process in the case in which it is determined in the step S that the golf club and the test object M gripping the golf club are in the rest state based on the motion output signal the announcement of REST STATE IS DETECTED is performed in the step S. The present announcement is also an announcement of the start of the motion of the measurement object.

Further in the rest state announcement process in the case in which it is determined in the step S that the golf club and the test object M gripping the golf club are not in the rest state based on the motion output signal the announcement of REST STATE DETECTION ERROR is performed in the step S.

The rest state announcement process is performed by the light emitting sections provided to the announcement section . Here the announcement of REST STATE IS DETECTED by the announcement section is performed using the blink and the emission colors of the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section . The announcement section can change the emission colors and the blinking patterns in accordance with the information to be announced to the test object M. shows an example of the emission colors and the blinking patterns of the light emitting sections of the announcement section .

The announcement of REST STATE IS DETECTED in the step S is performed using the emission colors and the announcement blinking patterns shown in the announcement class 3 of as an example. In the announcement class 3 the emission color of the first light emitting section is set to green and the first light emitting section is made to emit the light for a predetermined time while the second light emitting section is kept OFF. Thus the announcement of REST STATE IS DETECTED is provided to the test object M.

The announcement of REST STATE DETECTION ERROR in the step S is performed using the emission colors and the announcement blinking patterns shown in the announcement class 7 of as an example. In the announcement class 7 the emission color of the second light emitting section is set to red and the second light emitting section is made to emit the light for a predetermined time while the first light emitting section is kept OFF. Thus the test object M is provided with the announcement of REST STATE DETECTION ERROR and at the same time prompted to further keep the rest address state.

The motion measurement process is a process of measuring the motion swing of the test object M gripping the golf club . The motion measurement process is a process of performing the measurement of the motion swing of the test object M using the sensor installed in the sensor unit .

In the motion measurement process the acceleration and so on due to the motion of the test object M is obtained as the motion output signal from the sensor unit in the step S.

The transmission process is a process of transmitting the motion output signal based on the motion swing of the test object M gripping the golf club obtained in the motion measurement process to the analysis unit .

In the transmission process the motion output signal obtained in the step S is transmitted from the sensor unit to the analysis unit .

In the transmission process a second determination on whether or not an error e.g. over range or missing is included in the motion output signal transmitted to the analysis unit in the step S is performed by the determination section in the step S. Further in the transmission process the second determination on whether or not the acceleration and so on due to the motion exceed a predetermined value is performed by the determination section in the step S based on the motion output signal transmitted to the analysis unit in the step S.

The error determination is performed by comparison with the normal motion output signal previously recorded on the ROM as a second threshold value. Further the determination of the acceleration and so on due to the motion is performed by comparison with the motion output signal previously recorded on the ROM as the second threshold value. It should be noted that the determination of the acceleration and so on due to the motion can also be performed using an arbitrary value of the motion output signal such as the maximum value or the minimum value of the motion output signal of the test object M as the second threshold value.

In the case in which it is determined in the step S that no error is included in the motion output signal or in the case in which the motion output signal exceeds the predetermined second threshold value in the case in which the condition of the threshold is fulfilled the process proceeds to the announcement of MEASUREMENT IS GOOD in the step S. Further in the case in which it is determined in the step S that the motion output signal includes an error the process proceeds to the announcement of MEASUREMENT ERROR in the step S and then the process returns to the step S to perform the motion analysis again from the acquisition of the motion output signal in the rest state.

The announcement of MEASUREMENT IS GOOD in the step S is performed using the emission colors and the announcement blinking patterns shown in the announcement class 2 of as an example. In the announcement class 2 the emission color of the first light emitting section is set to red while the emission color of the second light emitting section is set to green. In the announcement class 2 the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section are made to emit the light alternately. Thus the announcement of MEASUREMENT IS GOOD is provided to the test object M.

Further the announcement of MEASUREMENT ERROR in the step S is performed using the emission colors and the announcement blinking patterns shown in the announcement class 1 of as an example. In the announcement class 1 the emission colors of the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section are set to red and the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section are made to emit the light simultaneously at regular intervals. Thus the test object M is provided with the announcement of MEASUREMENT ERROR and at the same time prompted to perform the motion analysis again from the acquisition of the motion output signal in the rest state in the step S.

In the transmission process the determination of the completion of the transmission of the motion output signal transmitted to the analysis unit in the step S is performed by the determination section in the step S. The determination of the completion of the transmission is performed by receiving the start parity and the stop parity added by the data processing section A provided to the sensor unit to the motion output signal the packet data to be transmitted. In the case in which the stop parity can be received before a predetermined time previously stored in the ROM elapses after receiving the start parity in the step S it is determined that the transmission is completed and the process proceeds to the announcement of TRANSMISSION IS COMPLETE in the step S. Further in the case in which the stop parity fails to be received before the predetermined time elapses the process proceeds to the announcement of TRANSMISSION ERROR in the step S and then the process returns to the step S to perform the motion analysis again from the acquisition of the motion output signal in the rest state.

The announcement of TRANSMISSION IS COMPLETE in the step S is performed using the emission colors and the announcement blinking patterns shown in the announcement class 4 of as an example. In the announcement class 4 the emission color of the second light emitting section is set to green. In the announcement class 2 the first light emitting section is kept OFF while the second light emitting section is made to emit the light at regular intervals. Thus the announcement of TRANSMISSION IS COMPLETE is provided to the test object M.

Further the announcement of TRANSMISSION ERROR in the step S is performed using the emission colors and the announcement blinking patterns shown in the announcement class 6 of as an example. In the announcement class 6 the emission color of the first light emitting section is set to red while the emission color of the second light emitting section is set to green. The first light emitting section and the second light emitting section are made to emit the light simultaneously at regular intervals. Thus the test object M is provided with the announcement of TRANSMISSION ERROR and at the same time prompted to perform the motion analysis again from the acquisition of the motion output signal in the rest state in the step S.

The analysis process is a process of analyzing the motion output signal which is based on the motion swing of the test object M gripping the golf club obtained in the motion measurement process and then transmitted to the analysis unit .

In the motion analysis process the analysis of the motion output signal based on the motion swing of the test object M transmitted to the analysis unit is performed in the step S based on a predetermined analysis program stored in the ROM . Further in the motion analysis process the analysis result is displayed on output to the display section .

In the motion analysis process the determination of the result obtained by the analysis in the step S is performed by the determination section in the step S. The determination of the analysis result is performed based on the analysis result previously stored in the ROM .

In the motion analysis process the analysis result of the motion output signal analyzed in the step S and an analysis result hereinafter referred to as a reference analysis result in a predetermined range previously recorded on the ROM are compared to each other and the determination on whether or not the analysis result is within the range of the reference analysis result is performed by the determination section in the step S.

In the case in which it is determined in the step S that the analysis result is within the range of the reference analysis result the process proceeds to the announcement of ANALYSIS IS COMPLETE in the step S. Further in the case in which it is determined in the step S that the analysis result is out of the range of the reference analysis result the process proceeds to the announcement of ANALYSIS ERROR in the step S and then the process returns to the step S to begin again with the acquisition of the motion output signal in the rest state.

The announcement of ANALYSIS IS COMPLETE in the step S is performed using the emission colors and the announcement blinking patterns shown in the announcement class 8 of as an example. In the announcement class 8 the emission colors of the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section are set to green. In the announcement class 8 the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section are made to emit the light simultaneously at regular intervals. Thus the announcement of ANALYSIS IS COMPLETE is provided to the test object M.

Further the announcement of ANALYSIS ERROR in the step S is performed using the emission colors and the announcement blinking patterns shown in the announcement class 5 of as an example. The emission colors of the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section are set to red. In the announcement class 5 the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section are made to emit the light simultaneously at regular intervals. Thus the test object M is provided with the announcement of ANALYSIS ERROR and at the same time prompted to perform the motion analysis again from the acquisition of the motion output signal in the rest state in the step S.

The series of processes of the motion analysis method are completed with the announcement of ANALYSIS IS COMPLETE in the step S.

It should be noted that in the motion analysis method described above the steps on and after the announcement of REST STATE IS DETECTED in the step S are performed continuously. Further in the analysis method described above the announcements in the respective steps on and after the announcement of REST STATE IS DETECTED in the step S can arbitrarily be omitted or added.

According to the motion detection device related to the first embodiment described above the following advantages can be obtained.

According to such a motion detection device it is possible to make the test object M gripping the sports equipment visually recognize the state of the motion detection device using the light emission by the announcement section without losing the posture.

Therefore according to such a motion detection device it is possible for the test object M to make a motion swing while gripping the sports equipment without diverting the visual line e and the attention. Therefore the natural motion swing posture can be detected and thus the reliability of the motion analysis can be enhanced.

The motion detection device according to the second embodiment is different in the configuration of the announcement section compared to the motion detection device explained in the description of the first embodiment.

Other configurations and the motion analysis method are roughly the same as those of the motion detection device and the motion analysis method in the above description of the first embodiment. Therefore the motion detection device will be explained while roughly the same configurations are denoted with the same reference symbols or the same reference numbers and partially omitted from the explanation.

The sensor unit constituting the motion detection device according to the present embodiment is configured including the sensor section and the holding section not shown in . The sensor section is configured including the announcement section the sensor and the control section which are housed in the housing .

Similarly to the motion detection device in the description of the first embodiment the sensor section is provided with the announcement section .

The announcement section is configured including acoustic sections . The announcement section is provided for aurally announcing various states of the motion detection device to the test object M. The announcement section is for announcing the various states of the motion detection device to the test object M with sounds generated by the acoustic sections . The announcement section of the motion detection device according to the present embodiment is configured including as an example a first acoustic section for sounding with a high note a high pitch sound and a second acoustic section for sounding with a low note a low pitch sound .

The motion analysis method using the motion detection device according to the present embodiment is roughly the same as the motion analysis method using the motion detection device in the above description of the first embodiment but is different in the announcement patterns for announcing the states of the motion detection device to the test object M.

In the method of announcing the states of the motion detection device to the test object M adopted in the motion analysis method according to the present embodiment the announcement is aurally performed using the sounds generated by the acoustic sections . Further the announcement is performed using the combinations of the pitches of the first acoustic section and the second acoustic section . It is possible for the motion detection device to announce a plurality of pieces of information such as the states of the motion detection device and the analysis result of the motion output signal by changing the intervals of the sounds generated by the acoustic sections.

The announcements in the motion analysis method according to the present embodiment are performed using the announcement patterns set in the announcement classes 11 through 18 shown in corresponding to the announcement classes 1 through 8 shown in in the announcements of the motion analysis method in the description of the first embodiment. Further the first acoustic section and the second acoustic section in the motion detection device correspond to the first light emitting section and the second light emitting section in the motion detection device . Specifically the announcements are performed replacing the light emission by the light emitting sections with the sounding by the acoustic sections and replacing the emission colors of the light emitting sections with the pitches the high note and the low note of the acoustic sections .

Other parts of the configuration of the motion detection device and the motion analysis method using the motion detection device are substantially the same as those of the configuration of the motion detection device and the motion analysis method using the motion detection device in the description of the first embodiment and therefore the explanation thereof will be omitted.

According to the motion detection device related to the second embodiment described above the following advantages can be obtained.

According to such a motion detection device it is possible to make the test object M gripping the sports equipment aurally recognize the state of the motion detection device using the sounds generated by the announcement section without losing the posture. Therefore according to such a motion detection device it is possible for the test object M to make a motion swing while gripping the sports equipment without diverting the visual line e and the attention. Therefore the natural motion swing posture can be detected and thus the reliability of the motion analysis can be enhanced.

It should be noted that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described above but various modifications or improvements can be provided to the embodiments described above. Some modified examples will be described below.

In the first embodiment and the second embodiment described above the announcement section is provided to the sensor section of the sensor unit . However the invention is not limited to this configuration but the announcement section can also be provided to the holding section as shown in . It is sufficient that the test object M can sense the light and the sound generated by the announcement section and the visual line e for visually recognizing the light emission of the light emitting sections is not blocked.

Thus it is possible to suppress the eccentricity of the centroid of the sports equipment such as the golf club to thereby realize the motion detection and the motion analysis with higher accuracy.

In the first embodiment and the second embodiment the announcement section announces a variety of states with the light or the sound to make the test object M sense the states. However the invention is not limited to this configuration but it is possible for the announcement section to announce a variety of states using vibrations and conduct the vibrations to the test object M via the sports equipment attached with the sensor unit to thereby make the test object M sense the states.

Thus it is possible to give an announcement only to the test object M and thus it is possible to inhibit the test object M from misidentifying the light and the sound from other than the motion detection device as the announcement to itself to thereby realize the motion detection and the motion analysis with high reliability.

