---

title: Electronic device, audio device, and method for supplying power to the audio device
abstract: An apparatus and method for supplying power to an audio device is provided. An electronic device includes an audio device connector comprising a microphone terminal configured to receive an audio signal of a microphone from an audio device, at least one audio terminal configured to output the audio signal to the audio device, a ground terminal, a power supply unit configured to selectively generate one of a first power and a second power to be supplied to the audio device through the microphone terminal, and a controller configured to identify whether the audio device has a type that includes an additional function unit based on a voltage at the microphone terminal, and to control the power supply unit to apply one of the first power and the second power to the microphone terminal correspondingly to the type of the audio device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621986&OS=09621986&RS=09621986
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09621986
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140828
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Mar. 24 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0034294 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Audio devices like earphones ear microphones headphones headsets and the like are connected to and used by electronic devices. An audio device may include a speaker. The audio device may also include a microphone. The audio device including the speaker and microphone may output audio received from the electronic device to the speaker or may output audio received from the microphone to the electronic device.

The audio device may further include an additional function unit such as a radio receiver block an Active Noise Canceling ANC block and the like. The radio receiver block may be used to listen to the radio. The ANC block may be used to reduce the noise surrounding the audio device. For example the ANC block may reduce the surrounding noise by receiving surrounding sound performing phase inversion on an audio signal of the surrounding sound and superposing the result on the audio signal.

The microphone of the audio device may be driven by power supplied from the electronic device. To drive the microphone the electronic device may supply power with a current of a few milliAmperes mA or less than 1 mA to the audio device. The additional function unit such as the radio receiver block or the ANC block may require greater consumption current than the microphone does. To drive the ANC block a current of a few tens mA for example is necessary.

An additional power line may be connected between the electronic device and the audio device in order for power to drive the additional function unit to be supplied to the audio device from the electronic device. The audio device may also include a battery to drive the additional function unit instead of being supplied with power from the electronic device.

A connection of a typical structure used to connect the electronic device and the audio device may not have an additional power line. Accordingly with the connection of the typical structure the electronic device may not be able to supply power to the audio device to drive the additional function unit. In the case the audio device includes a battery to drive the additional function unit the audio device may have increased volume and weight. Furthermore whether to drive the additional function unit of the typical audio device may not be controlled by the electronic device.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device to supply an audio device with power to drive an additional function unit of the audio device through a connection of a typical structure.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device to supply an audio device with power corresponding to whether an additional function unit is included in the audio device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device to supply or stop supplying an audio device with power corresponding to whether an additional function unit is included in the audio device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device to control whether to drive an additional function unit of an audio device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device to control whether to drive an additional function unit of an audio device according to an instruction from the audio device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an audio device connector including a microphone terminal configured to receive an audio signal of a microphone from an audio device at least one audio terminal configured to output an audio signal to the audio device and a ground terminal a power supply unit configured to selectively generate one of a first power and a second power to be supplied to the audio device through the microphone terminal and a controller configured to identify whether the audio device has a type that includes an additional function unit based on a voltage at the microphone terminal and control the power supply unit to apply one of the first power and the second power to the microphone terminal correspondingly to the type of the audio device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an audio device connector including a microphone terminal configured to receive an audio signal of a microphone from an audio device at least one audio terminal configured to output an audio signal to the audio device and a ground terminal a power supply unit configured to selectively generate one of a first power and a second power to be supplied to the audio device through the microphone terminal and a controller configured to identify an instruction as to whether to drive an additional function included in the audio device based on a voltage at the microphone terminal and control the power supply unit to apply one of the first power and the second power to the microphone terminal correspondingly to the instruction.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an audio device connector including a microphone terminal configured to receive an audio signal of a microphone from an audio device at least one audio terminal configured to output an audio signal to the audio device and a ground terminal a first power supply unit configured to generate a first power to be supplied to the audio device through the microphone terminal a second power supply unit configured to generate a second power to be supplied to the audio device through one of the microphone terminal and the audio terminal and a controller configured to identify an instruction as to whether to drive an additional function included in the audio device based on a voltage at the microphone terminal and control the second power supply unit to apply the second power to one of the microphone terminal and the audio terminal in response to an instruction to drive the additional function unit.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method for supplying power to an audio device in an electronic device is provided. The method includes identifying whether the audio device has a type that includes an additional function unit based on a voltage at a microphone terminal for receiving an audio signal of a microphone from the audio device and applying one of a first power and a second power to be supplied to the audio device through the microphone terminal to the microphone terminal correspondingly to the type of the audio device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method for supplying power to an audio device in an electronic device is provided. The method includes identifying an instruction as to whether to drive an additional function unit included in the audio device based on a voltage at a microphone terminal for receiving an audio signal of a microphone from the audio device and applying one of a first power and a second power to be supplied to the audio device through the microphone terminal to the microphone terminal correspondingly to the instruction.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method for supplying power to an audio device in an electronic device is provided. The method includes identifying an instruction as to whether to drive an additional function unit included in the audio device based on a voltage at a microphone terminal for receiving an audio signal of a microphone from the audio device and applying among a first power to be supplied to the audio device through the microphone terminal and a second power to be supplied to the audio device through one of the microphone terminal and an audio terminal for outputting an audio signal to the audio device the second power to one of the microphone terminal and the audio terminal in response to an instruction to drive the additional function unit.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an audio device is provided. The audio device includes an electronic device connector including a microphone terminal configured to output an audio signal of a microphone from an electronic device at least one audio terminal configured to receive an audio signal from the electronic device and a ground terminal an additional function unit configured to be driven by power input from the electronic device through the microphone terminal and perform an additional function and a type setup unit configured to provide a voltage indicating that the audio device has a type that includes the additional function unit to the electronic device through the microphone terminal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an audio device is provided. The audio device includes an electronic device connector including a microphone terminal configured to output an audio signal of a microphone from an electronic device at least one audio terminal configured to receive an audio signal from the electronic device and a ground terminal an additional function unit configured to be driven by power input from the electronic device through the microphone terminal and perform an additional function and a driving instruction unit configured to provide a voltage indicating an instruction as to whether to drive the additional function unit to the electronic device through the microphone terminal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an audio device is provided. The audio device includes an electronic device connector including a microphone terminal configured to output an audio signal of a microphone from an electronic device at least one audio terminal configured to receive an audio signal from the electronic device and a ground terminal an additional function unit configured to be driven by power input from the electronic device and perform an additional function a power input unit configured to apply power input through a terminal at which a voltage greater than a set level is detected among the microphone terminal and the audio terminal to the additional function unit as driving power and a driving instruction unit configured to provide a voltage indicating an instruction as to whether to drive the additional function unit to the electronic device through the microphone terminal.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The following with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Ordinal numbers as herein used such as first second etc. may modify various components of various embodiments but do not limit those components. For example these terms do not limit order and or importance of corresponding elements. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. For example a first user device and a second user device refer to two different user devices although both of them are user device. For example a first element may be named a second element without departing from the scope of the various embodiments of the present disclosure. Similarly the second element also may be named the first element.

It should be noted that if it is described that one element is coupled or connected to another element former element may be directly coupled or connected to latter element but they may be coupled or connected together through at least one intervening element. Conversely when one element is directly coupled or directly connected to another element it may be construed that they are coupled or connected together without the intervention of some other element.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the various embodiments of the present disclosure belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

For example the electronic device in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of smart phones tablet Personal Computers PCs mobile phones video phones e book readers laptop PCs netbook computers Personal Digital Assistants PDAs Portable Multimedia Players PMPs Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 audio layer 3 MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras and wearable devices e.g. Head Mounted Devices HMDs such as electronic glasses electronic clothes electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic accessories electronic tattoos or smart watches .

In some various embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance. The smart home appliance may include at least one of televisions Digital Video Disc DVD players audio systems refrigerators air conditioners cleaning machines ovens microwaves washing machines air purifiers set top boxes TV sets e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders and electronic albums.

In some various embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of a variety of medical equipment e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT photographing device ultrasonic device etc. navigation devices Global Positioning System GPS receivers Event Data Recorders EDRs Flight Data Recorders FDRs car infotainment devices marine electronic devices e.g. marine navigation systems gyro compass and the like avionics security devices car head units industrial or home robots banking agency s Automatic Teller Machines ATMs or Point of Sales POSs for shops.

In some various embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of furniture or building part of a structure including a communication capability electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring instruments e.g. meters for water electricity gas or radio waves .

The electronic device in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one or more combinations of the aforementioned devices. In addition the electronic device in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. It will be obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic device is not limited to the aforementioned examples.

An audio device in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of for example an ear microphone a headphone and a headset. It will be obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art that the audio device is not limited to the ear microphone the headphone or a headset.

Referring to in a network environment an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an Input Output I O interface a display and a communication interface . The bus may be a circuitry for interconnecting the enumerated elements of the electronic device and delivering communications e.g. control messages among them.

The processor may for example receive requests and or commands from the enumerated elements for example the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface and or the like via the bus interpret the requests and or commands and perform an operation and or data processing according to the interpreted request or command.

The memory may store a command and or data received from the processor or other elements for example the input output interface the display the communication interface the sensor module and the like or may store command and or data generated by the processor or other elements. The memory may include for example programming modules such as kernel middleware Application Programming Interface API application and the like. Each of the programming modules may be implemented in software firmware hardware or two or more combinations thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like to be used to carry out an operation and or function implemented by the other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API or the application . Furthermore the kernel may provide an interface for the middleware the API or the application to access respective elements of the electronic device to control or manage them.

The middleware may act as intermediary for the API or the application to communicate data with the kernel . In addition the middleware may perform control operations e.g. scheduling or load balancing in response to a task request received from the application by way of placing a high priority on at least one application included in the application to use system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory or the like of the electronic device .

The API is an interface for the application to control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. an instruction for file control window control image processing text control and the like.

In accordance with various embodiments the application may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a healthcare application e.g. an application for measuring quantity of motion or blood sugar or environmental information application e.g. an application for providing atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application involved in information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example an electronic device . The application involved in such information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for relaying particular information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing an external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a functionality for notifying the external electronic device for example the electronic device of notification information generated in any other application e.g. the SMS MMS application the email application the healthcare application or the environmental information application of the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may for example receive the notification information from the external electronic device for example the electronic device and provide the notification information to the user. The device management application may manage for example install delete or update for example a function of at least a part of an external electronic device for example the electronic device that communicates with the electronic device for example activating deactivating the external electronic device or a few components or adjusting brightness or resolution of a display an application operated in the external electronic device or a service provided from the external electronic device for example a call service or a message service .

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an application designated depending on an attribute for example a type of electronic device of an external electronic device for example the electronic device . For example in case the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to music replay. Similarly in case the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to healthcare. In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of applications received from an application designated for the electronic device or an application received from an external electronic device for example the server or the electronic device .

The I O interface may deliver instructions or data entered by the user through the I O device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory or the communication interface for example via the bus . For example the I O interface may provide data for a user touch input through the touch screen to the processor . The I O interface may also output a command or data received from the processor the memory or the communication interface via the bus through the I O device e.g. a speaker or the display . The I O interface may include an audio module. The audio device such as the earphone ear microphone headphone or headset may be connected to the audio module.

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wired or wireless communication and may communicate with an external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of Wi Fi BT Near Field Communication NFC GPS or cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband Wibro or Global System for Mobile Communications GSM .

The wired communication may include at least one of Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard RS 232 or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

In accordance with an embodiment the network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of computer network Internet Internet of things or telephone network.

In accordance with an embodiment a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external device may be supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

In accordance with an embodiment a controller may include a processor and a memory for storing information required by the processor . The controller which is a central processing unit may control general operations of the electronic device and perform operations of a method for supplying power to the audio device as will be discussed later in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure.

In the following various embodiments an ear microphone will be taken as an example of the audio device but the audio device is not limited to the ear microphone. Also an Active Noise Canceling ANC block will be taken as an example of an additional function unit included in the audio device but the additional function unit is not limited to the ANC block.

Referring to an audio device for example an ear microphone may be connected to an electronic device . In the embodiment of the electronic device is connected to the ear microphone through their respective 4 pole connectors each including a left L channel audio terminal a right R channel audio terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal.

The electronic device may include an audio device connector a power supply unit a coder decoder codec and a controller . The ear microphone may include an electronic device connector an ANC block an L channel speaker an R channel speaker a microphone a type setup unit a volume up switch a volume down switch a send end switch and resistors and .

The audio device connector may include an L channel audio terminal for outputting an L channel audio signal to the ear microphone an R channel audio terminal for outputting an R channel audio signal to the ear microphone a ground terminal and a microphone terminal for receiving an audio signal of a microphone from the ear microphone . The electronic device connector may include an L channel audio terminal for receiving an L channel audio signal from the electronic device an R channel audio terminal for receiving an R channel audio signal from the electronic device a ground terminal and a microphone terminal for outputting an audio signal of a microphone to the electronic device .

For example the audio device connector may be implemented in a form of a jack and the electronic device connector may be implemented in a form of a plug. Once the electronic device connector shaped like a plug is inserted into the audio device connector shaped like a jack the audio device connector may be connected to the electronic device connector such that the L channel audio terminal the R channel audio terminal the ground terminal and the microphone terminal of the audio device connector correspond to the L channel audio terminal the R channel audio terminal the ground terminal and the microphone terminal of the electronic device connector .

The terminals and of the audio device connector may be connected to the codec . The codec may output an audio signal to the L channel audio terminal and the R channel audio terminal and may receive an audio signal of a microphone from the microphone terminal .

The power supply unit may selectively generate one of first power and second power to be supplied to the ear microphone through the microphone terminal . The first power may be used as driving power for the microphone and the second power may be used as driving power for the ANC block .

The controller may be implemented by a processor like an Application Processor AP that may be included in the electronic device . For example the controller may be implemented by the processor of the electronic device shown in .

The controller may receive a voltage at the microphone terminal as an input. If the controller corresponds to an AP the controller may receive the voltage at the microphone terminal through an Analog to Digital Converter ADC port. Thus the controller may recognize the voltage through the ADC port in a digital value.

The controller may identify whether the ear microphone has a type that includes the ANC block based on the voltage at the microphone terminal . The controller may control the power supply unit to supply the microphone terminal with power corresponding to the type of the ear microphone . If the controller identifies that the ear microphone has a type that does not include the ANC block the controller may control the power supply unit to supply the first power to the microphone terminal . If the controller identifies that the ear microphone has a type that includes the ANC block the controller may control the power supply unit to supply the second power to the microphone terminal .

The power supply unit may include a power unit a switch and resistors and . The power supply unit may generate power under control of the controller . The power unit may be a power converter such as a Low DropOut LDO that generates power from a battery source of the electronic device . The switch and resistors and may be connected between an output of the power unit and the microphone terminal . The switch may be controlled by the controller to apply the power output by the power unit to the microphone terminal through one of the resistors and . The first power corresponds to power applied to the microphone terminal through the switch and the resistor from the power unit and the second power corresponds to power applied to the microphone terminal through the switch and the resistor from the power unit .

The resistor may have higher resistance than the resistor does. The resistor may have resistance corresponding to a consumption current of the microphone . The resistor may have resistance corresponding to a consumption current of the ANC block . For example the resistance of the resistor may be 2.2 k and the resistance of the resistor may be 100 . Accordingly the second power has higher current than the first power does.

The L channel audio terminal R channel audio terminal and microphone terminal of the electronic device connector may be connected to the ANC block . The ANC block may be driven by power input through the microphone terminal from the electronic device . The ANC block may perform ANC processing on L and R channel audio signals input through the L and R channel audio terminals and respectively from the electronic device and output the processing results through respective L and R channel speakers and .

The microphone a pair of the volume up switch and resistor connected in series a pair of the volume down switch and resistor connected in series and a pair of the send end switch and resistor connected in series may be connected in parallel between the microphone terminal and the ground terminal . The volume up switch volume down switch and send end switch may be automatic reset type push button switches that may be turned on if pressed and turned off if released. The volume up switch may be used as a volume up key to instruct the electronic device to increase the volume. The volume down switch may be used as a volume down key to instruct the electronic device to decrease the volume. The send end switch may be used as a send end key to instruct the electronic device to start or stop calling.

The resistors and may have different resistance values. For example the resistance of the resistor may be 619 the resistance of the resistor may be 221 and the resistance of the resistor may be 50 . Accordingly when the volume up switch volume down switch and send end switch are each turned on a corresponding voltage at the microphone terminal may be different each other. Therefore the electronic device may identify a type of a turned on switch among the volume up switch volume down switch and send end switch based on the voltage at the microphone terminal .

The type setup unit may be connected to the microphone terminal . The type setup unit may provide a voltage indicating that the ear microphone has a type that includes the ANC block to the electronic device through the microphone terminal . The type setup unit may include a resistor connected between the microphone terminal and the ground. The resistor may have different resistance from resistors and .

If the ear microphone connected to the electronic device does not include the resistor a voltage due to the resistor may not appear at the microphone terminal . Accordingly the electronic device may identify whether the ear microphone has a type that includes the ANC block based on the voltage at the microphone terminal .

If the controller identifies that the ear microphone has a type that does not includes the ANC block the controller may control the switch to apply output power of the power unit to the microphone terminal through the resistor as the first power. If the controller identifies that the ear microphone has a type that includes the ANC block the controller may control the switch to apply output power of the power unit to the microphone terminal through the resistor as the second power.

Referring to an audio device for example an ear microphone may be connected to the electronic device . In the embodiment of the electronic device is connected to the ear microphone through their respective 4 pole connectors each including a Left L channel audio terminal a Right R channel audio terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal.

The electronic device was described in connection with and thus the overlapping description of the electronic device will be omitted herein. Unlike the ear microphone shown in the ear microphone has a type of audio device that does not include the ANC block . Thus the ear microphone does not include the type setup unit as shown in .

The ear microphone may include an electronic device connector an L channel speaker an R channel speaker a microphone a volume up switch a volume down switch a send end switch and resistors and . The electronic device connector may include an L channel audio terminal an R channel audio terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal .

The electronic device connector L channel speaker R channel speaker microphone volume up switch volume down switch send end switch and resistors and of the ear microphone may correspond to the electronic device connector L channel speaker R channel speaker microphone volume up switch volume down switch send end switch and resistors and shown in respectively. Thus the same description of ear microphone as that of the ear microphone of will be omitted herein.

Since the ear microphone does not include such an ANC block the L channel speaker and R channel speaker may be directly connected to the L channel audio terminal and R channel audio terminal respectively.

Referring to an audio device for example an earphone may be connected to the electronic device . In the embodiment of an occasion where the earphone having a 3 pole connector that includes an L channel audio terminal R channel audio terminal and ground terminal is connected to the electronic device having the 4 pole connector that includes the L channel audio terminal R channel audio terminal ground terminal and microphone terminal.

The electronic device was described in connection with and thus the overlapping description of the electronic device will be omitted herein. Unlike the ear microphone shown in the earphone has a type of audio device that does not include the ANC block . Thus the earphone does not include the type setup unit as shown in .

The earphone may include an electronic device connector an L channel speaker and an R channel speaker . The electronic device connector may include an L channel audio terminal an R channel audio terminal and a ground terminal .

For example once the electronic device connector shaped like a plug is inserted into the audio device connector shaped like a jack the audio device connector may be connected to the electronic device connector such that the L channel audio terminal the R channel audio terminal and the ground terminal of the audio device connector correspond to the L channel audio terminal the R channel audio terminal and the ground terminal of the electronic device connector . In the electronic device connector the ground terminal is formed in the place of the microphone terminal that corresponds to the microphone terminal of the audio device connector . Accordingly the ground terminal and microphone terminal of the audio device connector may all be connected to the ground terminal of the electronic device connector .

Referring to for example once one of the ear microphone of the ear microphone of and the earphone of is connected to the electronic device shown in the electronic device operates the power unit and controls the switch to apply output power of the power unit to the microphone terminal through the resistor as the first power in operation . It is common for the electronic device to recognize whether an audio device such as an ear microphone or earphone is connected thereto and thus the associated detailed description will be omitted herein.

In operation the electronic device may determine a voltage at the microphone terminal and in operation the electronic device may identify whether the audio device connected to the electronic device has a type that includes an ANC block.

In operations to the electronic device may apply one of the first power and second power to be supplied to the audio device through the microphone terminal to the microphone terminal based on the type of the audio device.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the identified type of the audio device is an ANC ear microphone including the ANC block. If the audio device connected to the electronic device has a type that does not include the ANC block such as the ear microphone of or the earphone of in operation the electronic device may apply the first power to the microphone terminal . If the type of the audio device connected to the electronic device is an ANC ear microphone that includes the ANC block such as the ear microphone shown in in operation the electronic device may apply the second power to the microphone terminal instead of the first power. Therefore the ANC block of the ear microphone may be driven by power input through the microphone terminal .

Accordingly an electronic device may supply the audio device with power corresponding to whether the audio device includes an additional function unit. The electronic device may supply power to drive the additional function unit of the audio device such as the ear microphone to the audio device through the connector of a typical structure. Therefore the audio device like the ear microphone may drive the additional function unit with the power supplied through a connector of a typical structure without need for a battery to drive the additional function unit.

Furthermore the electronic device may control whether to drive the additional function unit of the audio device by supplying or stopping supplying the audio device with power corresponding to whether the audio device includes the additional function device.

In operation the electronic device may display an indication that an ANC function is operating by the ANC block of the ear microphone through a display device such as a display or an indicator of the electronic device . In operation the electronic device may stop displaying the indication that the ANC function is operating by the ANC block of the ear microphone .

Referring to an audio device for example an ear microphone may be connected to an electronic device . In the embodiment of the electronic device is connected to the ear microphone through their respective 4 pole connectors each including an L channel audio terminal an R channel audio terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal.

The electronic device may include an audio device connector a power supply unit a codec and a controller . The ear microphone may include an electronic device connector an ANC block an L channel speaker an R channel speaker a microphone an ANC driving instruction switch a volume up switch a volume down switch a send end switch and resistors and .

The electronic device may correspond to the electronic device shown in . Accordingly the audio device connector the power supply unit the codec and the controller may also correspond to the audio device connector the power supply unit the codec and the controller respectively. Furthermore an L channel terminal an R channel terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal of the audio device connector may also correspond to the L channel terminal the R channel terminal the ground terminal and the microphone terminal of the audio device connector of respectively. A power unit a switch and resistors and of the power supply unit may also correspond to the power unit the switch and the resistors and of the power supply unit of respectively. Thus the detailed description of the electronic device that overlaps with the electronic device will be omitted herein.

In this embodiment the ear microphone includes the ANC driving instruction switch in place of the type setup unit included in the ear microphone shown in . Thus the electronic device connector ANC block L channel speaker R channel speaker microphone volume up switch volume down switch send end switch and resistors and may correspond to the electronic device connector ANC block L channel speaker R channel speaker microphone volume up switch volume down switch send end switch and resistors and shown in respectively. Also an L channel terminal an R channel terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal of the electronic device connector may correspond to the L channel terminal the R channel terminal the ground terminal and the microphone terminal of the electronic device connector of respectively. Thus the detailed description of the ear microphone that overlaps with the ear microphone will be omitted herein.

The ANC driving instruction switch and the resistor may be connected in series between the microphone terminal and the ground. The ANC driving instruction switch may operate as a driving instruction unit. The driving instruction unit may provide a voltage indicating an instruction as to whether to drive the ANC block to the electronic device through the microphone terminal .

The ANC driving instruction switch may be used as an ANC key to instruct the electronic device whether to drive the ANC block . The ANC driving instruction switch may be an automatic reset type push button switch that is turned on if pressed and turned off if released.

The resistor may have different resistance from the resistors and . For example the resistance of the resistor may be 1.2 k the resistance of the resistor may be 619 the resistance of the resistor may be 221 and the resistance of the resistor may be 50 . Accordingly when the ANC driving instruction switch volume up switch volume down switch and send end switch are each turned on a corresponding voltage at the microphone terminal may be different each other. Therefore the electronic device may identify a type of a turned on switch among the ANC driving instruction switch volume up switch volume down switch and send end switch based on the voltage at the microphone terminal .

The controller may identify an instruction as to whether to drive the ANC block included in the ear microphone based on the voltage at the microphone terminal . Whenever the ANC driving instruction switch is turned on a voltage corresponding to the resistor may be input to the controller through the microphone terminal from the ear microphone . The controller may recognize the voltage corresponding to the resistor input through the microphone terminal as an ANC key input that instructs whether to drive the ANC block . If there is an ANC key input while the ANC block is not driven the controller may identify the ANC key input as an instruction to drive the ANC block and if there is an ANC key input while the ANC block is driven the controller may identify the ANC key input as an instruction to stop driving the ANC block . If the controller is applying the first power to the microphone terminal the controller may determine that the ANC block is not being driven. If the controller is applying the second power to the microphone terminal the controller may determine that the ANC block is being driven.

The controller may control the power supply unit to supply the microphone terminal with one of the first and second power that corresponds to the instruction as to whether to drive the ANC block . In response to the instruction to drive the ANC block from the ear microphone the controller may control the switch to apply output power of the power unit to the microphone terminal through the resistor as the second power. In response to the instruction to stop driving the ANC block from the ear microphone the controller may control the switch to apply output power of the power unit to the microphone terminal through the resistor as the first power.

Referring to once the ear microphone is connected to the electronic device in operation the electronic device may activate the power unit and control the switch to apply output power of the power unit to the microphone terminal through the resistor as the first power.

In operation the electronic device may determine a voltage at the microphone terminal and in operation the electronic device may identify an ANC key input to instruct whether to drive the ANC block based on the voltage at the microphone terminal .

If there is the ANC key input in operation the electronic device may determine whether the ANC block is being driven. If the electronic device is applying the second power to the microphone terminal the electronic device may determine that the ANC block is being driven. If the electronic device is applying the first power to the microphone terminal the electronic device may determine that the ANC block is not being driven.

If the ANC block is not being driven in operation the electronic device may determine that the ANC key input instructs to drive the ANC block and may drive the ANC block by applying the second power to the microphone terminal . If the ANC block is being driven in operation the electronic device may determine that the ANC key input instructs to stop driving the ANC block and may stop driving the ANC block by applying the first power to the microphone terminal instead of the second power.

Accordingly the electronic device may control whether to drive the ANC block based on the instruction from the ear microphone .

In operation the electronic device may display an indication that an ANC function is operating by the ANC block of the ear microphone through a display device such as a display or an indicator of the electronic device . In operation the electronic device may stop displaying the indication that the ANC function is operating by the ANC block of the ear microphone .

Referring to an audio device for example an ear microphone may be connected to an electronic device . In the embodiment of the electronic device is connected to the ear microphone through their respective 4 pole connectors each including an L channel audio terminal an R channel audio terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal.

The electronic device may include an audio device connector a first power supply unit a second power supply unit a codec and a controller . The ear microphone may include an electronic device connector an ANC block a power input unit an L channel speaker an R channel speaker a microphone an ANC driving instruction switch a volume up switch a volume down switch a send end switch and resistors and .

The audio device connector may include an L channel terminal an R channel terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal . An L channel terminal an R channel terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal of the audio device connector may correspond to the L channel terminal the R channel terminal the ground terminal and the microphone terminal of the audio device connector of respectively. The electronic device connector may include an L channel terminal an R channel terminal a ground terminal and a microphone terminal . The L channel terminal R channel terminal ground terminal and microphone terminal of the electronic device connector may correspond to the L channel terminal the R channel terminal the ground terminal and the microphone terminal of the electronic device connector of respectively.

The terminals to of the audio device connector may be connected to the codec . The codec may correspond to the codec shown in . The codec may output an audio signal to the L channel audio terminal and the R channel audio terminal and may receive an audio signal of a microphone from the microphone terminal .

The first power supply unit may generate first power to be supplied to the ear microphone through the microphone terminal . The second power supply unit may generate second power to be supplied to the ear microphone through one of the microphone terminal and the R channel audio terminal . The first power may be used as driving power for the microphone and the second power may be used as driving power for the ANC block .

The ANC block L channel speaker R channel speaker microphone ANC driving instruction switch volume up switch volume down switch send end switch and resistors and of the ear microphone may correspond to the ANC block L channel speaker R channel speaker microphone ANC driving instruction switch volume up switch volume down switch send end switch and resistors and shown in respectively. Thus the detailed description of the ear microphone that overlaps with the ear microphone of will be omitted herein.

The controller may correspond to the controller shown in . The controller may identify an instruction as to whether to drive the ANC block included in the ear microphone based on the voltage at the microphone terminal . Whenever the ANC driving instruction switch is turned on a voltage corresponding to the resistor may be input to the controller through the microphone terminal from the ear microphone . The controller may recognize the voltage corresponding to the resistor input through the microphone terminal as an ANC key input that instructs whether to drive the ANC block . If there is an ANC key input while the ANC block is not driven the controller may identify the ANC key input as an instruction to drive the ANC block and if there is an ANC key input while the ANC block is driven the controller may identify the ANC key input as an instruction to stop driving the ANC block . If the controller is applying the first power to the microphone terminal the controller may determine that the ANC block is not being driven. If the controller is applying the second power to the microphone terminal or the R channel audio terminal the controller may determine determined that the ANC block is being driven.

The controller may control the second power supply unit to supply the second power to one of the microphone terminal and the R channel audio terminal in response to the instruction to drive the ANC block .

The first power supply unit may include a first power unit and a resistor . The first power supply unit may generate the first power under control of the controller . The first power unit may be a power converter such as an LDO that generates power from a battery source of the electronic device . The resistor may be connected between an output of the first power unit and the microphone terminal .

The second power supply unit may include a second power unit a resistor and switches and . The second power supply unit may generate the second power under control of the controller . The second power unit may be a power converter such as an LDO that generates power from a battery source of the electronic device . The switch may receive output power of the second power unit through the resistor and apply the power to one of the microphone terminal and the switch . The switch may apply one of power input from the switch and an R channel audio signal input from the codec to the R channel audio terminal .

The resistor may have higher resistance than the resistor does. The resistor may have resistance corresponding to a consumption current of the microphone . The resistor may have resistance corresponding to a consumption current of the ANC block . For example the resistance of the resistor may be 2.2 k and the resistance of the resistor may be 100 . Accordingly the first power has higher current than the second power does.

The controller may determine whether the electronic device is in an active microphone state in response to an instruction to drive the ANC block . The active microphone state may be state where the microphone may be allowed to be used for example during calling voice recording voice recognition etc. If it is not in the active microphone state it means that the microphone is not being used for example while multimedia content like a song is reproduced. The controller may control the second power supply unit to apply the second power to the microphone terminal if it is not in the active microphone state. The controller may control the second power supply unit to apply the second power to the R channel audio terminal if it is in the active microphone state.

In response to the instruction to drive the ANC block while not in the active microphone state the controller may control the switches and to apply output power of the second power unit to the microphone terminal through the resistor and the switch as the second power. In response to the instruction to drive the ANC block while in the active microphone state the controller may control the switches and to apply output power of the second power unit to the R channel audio terminal through the resistor the switch and the switch as the second power.

In the ear microphone the R channel audio terminal the microphone terminal and the ANC block may all be connected to the power input unit . The power input unit may apply power input through a terminal at which a voltage above a set level is detected among the R channel audio terminal and the microphone terminal to the ANC block as driving power.

The power input unit may include a power input identifier and a switch . The power input identifier may identify a terminal at which a voltage higher than the set level is detected among the R channel audio terminal and the microphone terminal . The switch may apply power input through a terminal identified by the power input identifier among the R channel audio terminal and the microphone terminal to the ANC block as driving power.

In the embodiment of the controller controls the second power supply unit to apply the second power to the microphone terminal while the electronic device is not in the active microphone state. The switch may apply the second power input through the resistor from the second power unit to the microphone terminal . Therefore the switch of the ear microphone may apply the second power input through the microphone terminal to the ANC block as driving power.

Referring to configurations of the electronic device and ear microphone may be the same as those of . However illustrates an occasion where the controller controls the second power supply unit to apply the second power to the R channel audio terminal while the electronic device is in the active microphone state. The switch may apply the second power input through the resistor from the second power unit to the R channel audio terminal instead of the R channel audio signal. Therefore the switch of the ear microphone may apply the second power input through the R channel audio terminal to the ANC block as driving power.

Referring to once the ear microphone is connected to the electronic device in operation the electronic device may activate the first power unit to apply output power of the first power unit to the microphone terminal through the resistor as the first power.

In operation the electronic device may determine a voltage at the microphone terminal and in operation the electronic device may identify an ANC key input to instruct whether to drive the ANC block based on the voltage at the microphone terminal .

If there is the ANC key input in operation the electronic device may determine whether the ANC block is being driven. If the electronic device is applying the second power to the R channel audio terminal or the microphone terminal the electronic device may determine that the ANC block is being driven. If the electronic device is applying the first power to the microphone terminal the electronic device may determine that the ANC block is not being driven.

If the ANC block is not being driven the electronic device may determine that the ANC key input instructs to drive the ANC block and may determine whether it is in the active microphone state in operation . If it is not in the active microphone state in operation the electronic device may control the second power supply unit to apply the second power to the microphone terminal as shown in thereby driving the ANC block . If it is in the active microphone state in operation the electronic device may control the second power supply unit to apply the second power to the R channel audio terminal as shown in thereby driving the ANC block . Accordingly even while the microphone is used the ANC block may be driven.

If the ANC block is being driven in operation the electronic device may determine that the ANC key input instructs to stop driving the ANC block and may stop applying the second power to the microphone terminal or the R channel audio terminal but apply the first power to the microphone terminal thereby stopping driving the ANC block in operation .

In operations and the electronic device may display an indication that an ANC function is operating by the ANC block of the ear microphone through a display device such as a display or an indicator of the electronic device . In operation the electronic device may stop displaying the indication that the ANC function is operating by the ANC block of the ear microphone when applying the first power to the microphone terminal .

While the description in connection with takes an example of applying the second power to the microphone through the R channel audio terminal it would be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that the power may be applied to the ear microphone through the L channel audio terminal instead of the R channel audio terminal in the similar way.

Referring to the electronic device may include one or more processors a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module an input module a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator or a motor but is not limited thereto.

The processor may include one or more Application processors APs or one or more Communication Processors CPs . The processor may correspond to the processor shown in . While the AP and CP are both included in the processor in the embodiment of each of the AP and CP may be included in a different IC package. In an embodiment the AP and CP may be included in a single IC package.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware and software elements connected to the AP by running an operating system or application programs and perform various data processing and operation. The AP may be implemented in for example a System on Chip SoC . In accordance with an embodiment the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The CP may manage data links in communication among different electronic devices over a network and perform communication protocol conversion. The CP may be implemented in for example an SoC. In an embodiment the CP may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function. The CP may also identify and authenticate the electronic device in the communication network for example by means of the SIM card . The CP may also provide a voice call service a video call service a text messaging service and or a packet data service to the user.

Furthermore the CP may control data communication of the communication module . While in the embodiment of some components like the CP power management module or memory are each illustrated to be a separate component the AP may include at least one of the components e.g. CP in another embodiment.

In accordance with an embodiment the AP or the CP may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or other components connected to the AP or the CP and then process the command or data. In addition the AP or the CP may store data received from at least one of the other components or generated by at least one of the other components in a non volatile memory.

The SIM card may include a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular position in the electronic device . The SIM card may include a unique identification information such as Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information such as International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal memory and or an external memory . The memory may correspond to the memory shown in . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory such as Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or the like or a non volatile memory such as One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory or the like. In an embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may include a flash drive such as compact flash CF Secure Digital SD Micro Secure Digital Micro SD Mini Secure Digital Mini SD extreme Digital xD memory stick or the like. The external memory may be operationally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces.

Although not shown the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be included in for example the communication interface shown in . The wireless communication module may include any of Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Global Positioning System GPS or Near Field Communication NFC . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function with wireless frequencies. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a Local Area Network LAN card or a modem for connecting the electronic device to a network e.g. Internet LAN Wireless Area Network WAN communication network cellular network satellite network or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The RF module may process transmission reception of voice or sound. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA not shown . The RF module may further include some parts for wireless communication i.e. for transmitting or receiving RF signals over the air such as conductors wires etc.

The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G an RGB Red Green Blue sensor H a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K or an Ultra Violet UV sensor L and Infrared IR sensor not shown . The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or convert information measured or detected by monitoring the electronic device to an electric signal. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor or a finger print sensor or the like.

The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more of the sensors included in the sensor module .

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The input module may be included in the I O interface shown in . The touch panel may recognize touch inputs in at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods. The touch panel may further include a controller not shown . In case of the capacitive method physical contact or proximity detection may be possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer function. In this regard the touch panel may provide the user with a tactile response.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented in a way identical or similar to how a touch input of a user is received or by using a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include for example a physical button. The key may further include an optical key a keypad or a touch key. The ultrasonic input device may use an input tool that generates an ultrasonic signal and enable the electronic device to determine data by sensing the ultrasonic signal to a microphone for example the microphone thereby enabling wireless recognition. In an embodiment the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device such as a network a computer or a server through the communication module .

The display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The display may correspond to the display shown in . The panel may be any of a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLEDs and the like. The panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may also be incorporated with the touch panel in a single module. The hologram device may make three Dimensional 3D images holograms in the air by using light interference. The projector may render an image onto an external screen by light projection. In accordance with an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit to control the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical communication interface or a D subminiature D sub interface . The interface may be included in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD MultiMedia Card MMC interface or IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert sound to electrical signals or electrical signals to sound. The audio module may be included in the I O interface shown in . The audio module may process sound information input or output through any of a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone . In addition to the earphone any audio device such as an ear microphone a headphone and a headset may be connected to the audio module .

The camera module may be a device for capturing images and videos and may include in an embodiment one or more image sensors e.g. front and back sensors a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash such as an LED or xenon lamp.

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not shown a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery fuel gauge may be included in the power management module .

The PMIC may be mounted on an IC or an SOC. A charging method may be divided into wired and wireless charging methods. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent overvoltage or overcurrent from being induced from a charger. In an embodiment the charger IC may be used in at least one of a wired charging scheme and a wireless charging scheme. The wireless charging scheme may include a magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic wave based scheme and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier or the like may be added for wireless charging.

The battery fuel gauge may measure an amount of remaining power of the battery a voltage a current or a temperature while the battery is being charged. The battery may save electricity and supply power. The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate a particular state of the electronic device or a part of the electronic device e.g. the AP the particular state including for example a booting state a message state or charging state. The motor may convert electric signals to mechanical vibration.

Although not shown a processing unit for supporting mobile TV such as a GPU may be included in the electronic device . The processing unit for supporting mobile TV may process for example media data conforming to a standard for Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the aforementioned components of the electronic device may include one or more parts and a name of the part may vary with a type of the electronic device. The electronic device in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned components omit some of them or include other additional component s . Some of the components may be combined into an entity but the entity may perform the same functions as the components may do.

The term module may refer to a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination thereof. The term module may be interchangeably used with a unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be a minimum unit or part of an integrated component. The module may be a minimum unit or part of performing one or more functions. The module may be mechanically or electrically implemented. For example the module may include at least one of Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chips Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs or Programmable Logic Arrays PLAs that perform some operations which have already been known or will be developed in the future.

At least a part of the device e.g. modules or their functions or method e.g. operations may be implemented as instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium in the form of a programming module. The instructions when executed by one or more processor e.g. the processor may cause the processor to carry out a corresponding function. The computer readable storage medium may be the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented by the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include a module program routine set of instructions process and the like for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable storage medium may include a hardware device configured to store and perform program instructions e.g. programming module such as magnetic media such as hard discs floppy discs and magnetic tapes optical media such as Compact Disc ROMs CD ROMs and Digital Versatile Discs DVDs magneto optical media such as floptical disks ROMs RAMs Flash Memories and the like. Examples of the program instructions may include not only machine language codes but also high level language codes which are executable by various computing means using an interpreter. The aforementioned hardware devices may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to carry out various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

The electronic device in accordance with the various embodiments of the present disclosure may receive and store a program that includes instructions from a program provider connected wirelessly or by wire for the electronic device to perform the method for supplying power and the program provider may be the external electronic device or the server as shown in . The program provider may include a memory for storing the program a communication module for performing wired or wireless communication with the electronic device and a processor for sending the program to the electronic device automatically or upon request of the electronic device.

Modules or programming modules in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one or more of the aforementioned components omit some of them or further include other additional components. Operations performed by modules programming modules or other components in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may be carried out sequentially simultaneously repeatedly or heuristically. Furthermore some of the operations may be performed in a different order or omitted or include other additional operation s .

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

