---

title: Method and apparatus for creating a time-sensitive grammar
abstract: The disclosure relates to creating a time-sensitive grammar. A device receives a plurality of data points, identifies a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points, each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points, generates a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps, and combines the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time-sensitive sequence of data points. The generic time factor may be inserted into the time-sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462456&OS=09462456&RS=09462456
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09462456
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141119
---
Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service and a fourth generation 4G service e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE or WiMax . There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA etc.

User devices generally track information related to a user s use of the device such as the location of the device battery usage WiFi access and or interactions with other devices e.g. emails calls short message service SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages web browsing history proximity detections etc. and store this information in user log files. The user device can construct various grammars based on these log files to aid in determining information about the user such as behaviors interests important locations e.g. home work etc.

The following presents a simplified summary relating to one or more aspects and or embodiments associated with the mechanisms disclosed herein to create a time sensitive grammar. As such the following summary should not be considered an extensive overview relating to all contemplated aspects and or embodiments nor should the following summary be regarded to identify key or critical elements relating to all contemplated aspects and or embodiments or to delineate the scope associated with any particular aspect and or embodiment. Accordingly the following summary has the sole purpose to present certain concepts relating to one or more aspects and or embodiments relating to the mechanisms disclosed herein in a simplified form to precede the detailed description presented below.

A method of creating a time sensitive grammar includes receiving a plurality of data points identifying a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points generating a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps and combining the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points wherein the generic time factor is inserted into the time sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.

An apparatus for creating a time sensitive grammar includes a processor and a time factor combiner module configured to receive a plurality of data points identify a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points generate a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps and combine the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points wherein the generic time factor is inserted into the time sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.

An apparatus for creating a time sensitive grammar includes logic configured to receive a plurality of data points logic configured to identify a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points logic configured to generate a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps and logic configured to combine the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points wherein the generic time factor is inserted into the time sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.

An apparatus for creating a time sensitive grammar includes means for receiving a plurality of data points means for identifying a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points means for generating a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps and means for combining the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points wherein the generic time factor is inserted into the time sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.

A non transitory computer readable medium for creating a time sensitive grammar includes at least one instruction to receive a plurality of data points at least one instruction to identify a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points at least one instruction to generate a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps and at least one instruction to combine the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points wherein the generic time factor is inserted into the time sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.

Other objects and advantages associated with the mechanisms disclosed herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the accompanying drawings and detailed description.

The disclosure relates to creating a time sensitive grammar. A device receives a plurality of data points identifies a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points generates a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps and combines the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points. The generic time factor may be inserted into the time sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.

Aspects of the disclosure are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the disclosure. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally well known elements of the disclosure will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the disclosure.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the disclosure does not require that all embodiments of the disclosure include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to a server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the server via the core network and or the Internet and or to provide content e.g. web page downloads to the UEs.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The ASIC may also include time factor combiner and a grammar construction module configured to generate a time sensitive grammar as described herein. The time factor combiner and the grammar construction module may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or a combination of both. The memory and or the local database may store log files that can be processed by time factor combiner and the grammar construction module as described herein. The memory may also store the time sensitive sequence of data points generated by the time factor combiner and the time sensitive grammar generated by the grammar construction module .

Accordingly an embodiment of the disclosure can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API local database time factor combiner and or grammar construction module may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

For example the time factor combiner may receive a plurality of data points from transceiver memory or local database for example identify a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points generate a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps and combine the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points. The generic time factor may be inserted into the time sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the disclosure and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the disclosure.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B AP a BS Node B or eNodeB in the RAN etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the logic configured to process information may include logic configured to receive a plurality of data points logic configured to identify a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points each of the plurality of time gaps representing a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points logic configured to generate a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps and logic configured to combine the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points. The processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. Further although not illustrated in the processor may include a time factor combiner and a grammar construction module configured to generate a time sensitive grammar as described herein. The volatile memory and or the disc drive may store log files that can be processed by the time factor combiner and the grammar construction module as described herein. Server may receive such log files from various user devices via network access ports .

In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access ports used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B in .

User devices such as UE A B in generally track information related to a user s use of the device such as the location of the device battery usage WiFi access and or interactions with other devices e.g. emails calls short message service SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages web browsing history proximity detections etc. and store this information in user log files. The user device can construct various grammars based on these log files to aid in determining information about the user such as behaviors interests important locations e.g. home work etc. However current grammar construction algorithms such as SEQUITUR assume a sequential processing of the data which does not reflect the variations in astronomical time during the acquisition of the data.

For example a user device such as user device A B in including a grammar construction module such as grammar construction module in may initially cluster the data in its various data logs. For example the user device may cluster a given log around Location e.g. country and Application e.g. McDonalds Starbucks etc. . Second the user device may present the data in each log sequentially as it matches the clusters and in the order it is found in the log file. Third the user device may either group the logs into their representative centroids and find the users that correlate to those entries or group the logs by users and present the centroids that represent those log entries. Fourth the user device may generate a grammar for either the groupings of representative centroids or the groupings of users.

It would be beneficial to find a way of representing time granularity within a grammar. For example when a user device builds a grammar the sequence of the data is well represented but there is no way of measuring whether the space between consecutive events is larger or smaller. As a result an hour and a full day are represented equivalently. It would therefore be useful to find a way to differentiate between these two very different time spans.

Accordingly an embodiment of the disclosure provides a mechanism whereby a user device such as UE A B can create a time sensitive grammar. In an aspect the data in a log file can be padded e.g. logarithmically such that events that occur at longer frequencies will have more padding than events that occur at shorter frequencies. The user device A B or more specifically the time factor combiner can determine the largest and smallest frequencies and create a generic time factor based on those frequencies. The time factor combiner can then generate a sequence of data points by combining this generic time factor with the data points in the log file proportionally to the length of time between the data points. The grammar construction module can then generate a time sensitive grammar based on this combined sequence of data points.

For example given a first event followed by a second event two minutes later as well as two events separated by 12 minutes the time scale could be 10 minutes minus the offset of two minutes. Thus all events that are separated by two minutes will have no padding and all the events that are separated by 10 minutes will have maximum padding.

Time factor combiner combines the generic time factor X with the data points from log file to generate a sequence of data points . As illustrated in the sequence of data points may then be stored in memory such as memory for further processing as described below. In the example of the sequence of data points is AAABXBXCXXCXX. This sequence indicates the order that these data points were recorded in the log file . That is three events of type A were recorded then two events of type B were recorded then two events of type C were recorded. Although illustrates events of type A being recorded before events of type B and events of type B being recorded before events of type C the events may be recorded in any order. For example events of type B may be recorded before events of type A events of type C may be recorded before events of type B etc.

Based on the sequence of data points the grammar construction module can then generate a time sensitive grammar that will be both time sensitive and sequentially sensitive as illustrated in . The grammar construction module may be configured to implement a grammar construction algorithm such as the SEQUITUR algorithm. In the example of the grammar construction module may generate the following grammars also referred to herein as rules by executing the grammar construction algorithm Rule AA Rule ABXA and Rule ABA . Note that Rule is different than Rule . As can be appreciated even though X is not existent in the lexicon of the input it reflects the time elements of the input. As illustrated in the generated time sensitive grammar may then be stored in memory such as memory for further processing as described below.

In another embodiment the time sensitive processing may be shifted into the grammar construction rules and thereby performed by the grammar construction module as opposed to the one described above in which the time sensitive processing is addressed through a pre processing step performed by the time factor combiner before the time sensitive grammar is constructed by the grammar construction module .

At the device receives a plurality of data points. The receiving may include receiving the plurality of data points from one or more log files representing activity of one or more users such as one or more users of one or more user devices. The plurality of data points may comprise notification data from such one or more user devices. Alternatively the plurality of data points may comprise microphone data from a user device. A data point may represent an event and an event may include a location and an activity.

In an aspect where a user device is performing the flow illustrated in the user device may be generating the plurality of data points received at . Alternatively where a server is performing the flow illustrated in the server may be receiving the plurality of data points at from one or more user devices generating the plurality of data points. In yet another alternative where a user device is performing the flow illustrated in the user device may be receiving the plurality of data points at from one or more other user devices that are generating the plurality of data points.

At the device identifies a plurality of time gaps associated with the plurality of data points. Each of the plurality of time gaps may represent a dwell time or a frequency of occurrence of a data point of the plurality of data points. The dwell time may be a time period during which a user device is at a location or during which the user device performs an activity. The frequency of occurrence may be a time period between which a user device is at a location or between which the user device performs an activity.

At the device generates a generic time factor representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps. Generating the generic time factor may include normalizing the plurality of time gaps into a normalized time gap the normalized time gap representing a multiple of the plurality of time gaps the generic time factor corresponding to the normalized time gap. Normalizing the plurality of time gaps may include one of a linear normalization a non linear normalization or a logarithmic normalization.

At the device combines the generic time factor with the plurality of data points to create a time sensitive sequence of data points wherein the generic time factor is inserted into the time sensitive sequence a number of times representing the dwell time or the frequency of occurrence of a corresponding data point of the plurality of data points.

At the device generates the time sensitive grammar based on the time sensitive sequence of data points. The generated time sensitive grammar can then be shared among devices. For example where a user device is performing the flow of the user device may send the generated time sensitive grammar to a server and or to other user devices. Where a server is performing the flow illustrated in the server may send the generated time sensitive grammar to the user devices from which the server received the plurality of data points at . Alternatively or additionally the server may send the generated time sensitive grammar to one or more other servers for further processing for example or to one or more other user devices from which the server did not receive the plurality of data points.

In an aspect the identifying at the generating at and the combining at may be part of generating the time sensitive grammar. Alternatively the identifying at the generating at and the combining at may be performed as a pre processing of the plurality of data points before the time sensitive grammar is generated.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The functionality of the modules of may be implemented in various ways consistent with the teachings herein. In some designs the functionality of these modules may be implemented as one or more electrical components. In some designs the functionality of these blocks may be implemented as a processing system including one or more processor components such as a time factor combiner and or a grammar construction module. In some designs the functionality of these modules may be implemented using for example at least a portion of one or more integrated circuits e.g. an ASIC . As discussed herein an integrated circuit may include a processor software other related components or some combination thereof. Thus the functionality of different modules may be implemented for example as different subsets of an integrated circuit as different subsets of a set of software modules or a combination thereof. Also it will be appreciated that a given subset e.g. of an integrated circuit and or of a set of software modules may provide at least a portion of the functionality for more than one module.

In addition the components and functions represented by as well as other components and functions described herein may be implemented using any suitable means. Such means also may be implemented at least in part using corresponding structure as taught herein. For example the components described above in conjunction with the module for components of also may correspond to similarly designated means for functionality. Thus in some aspects one or more of such means may be implemented using one or more of processor components integrated circuits or other suitable structure as taught herein.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

