---

title: Wireless-channel characterization and equalization
abstract: Various embodiments are described that relate to signal distortion for delay and attenuation. A transmission antenna can transmit a baseline signal to a reception antenna and then transmit a test signal to the reception antenna. The baseline signal and test signal can be processed to determine undesirable attenuation and delay coefficients. These coefficients can be transmitted back from the reception antenna to the transmission antenna. Based on these coefficients, a determination can be made on how to modify a signal of interest such that the signal of interest arrives from the transmission antenna to the reception antenna absent the undesirable attenuation and delay coefficients. The transmission antenna can transmit the modified signal of interest such that it arrives at the reception antenna absent the undesirable delay and attenuation coefficients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09287908&OS=09287908&RS=09287908
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09287908
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140925
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

In order to communicate information among one another entities can employ antennas that send signals to and from one another such as by using radios. In a trial environment these signals can be communicated among the antennas with relative ease. However in a real world environment these signals can experience real world interference and thus not be optimally communicated. Therefore improved signal communication may be desirable.

In one embodiment a system comprises a distortion component and a distorted signal emission component. The distortion component can be configured to distort a signal of interest in accordance with a distortion scheme to form a distorted signal of interest that is not identical to the signal of interest. The distorted signal emission component can be configured to cause an emission of the distorted signal of interest from a transmission antenna to a reception antenna. The distortion scheme can compensate for anticipated delay and attenuation produced from travel of the signal of interest over an indirect path from the transmission antenna to the reception antenna. The transmission antenna and reception antenna communicate in different languages. The identification component the distorted signal emission component or a combination thereof is implemented at least in part by way of non software.

In one embodiment a method comprises collecting by way of a reception antenna a test signal transmitted by a transmission antenna that travels by way of a first path as well as collecting by way of the reception antenna the test signal transmitted by the transmission antenna that travels by way of a second path that is different from the first path. The method also comprises calculating a first coefficient set for the test signal transmitted by the transmission antenna that travels by way of the first path in addition to calculating a second coefficient set for the test signal transmitted by the transmission antenna that travels by way of the second path. The method additionally comprises transmitting by way of the reception antenna the first coefficient set and the second coefficient set to the transmission antenna. The transmission antenna and the reception antenna are two different antennas and the first path the second path or a combination thereof is an indirect path. The distortion scheme for a signal of interest transmitted from the transmission antenna to the reception antenna can be based at least in part on the first coefficient set and the second coefficient set.

In one embodiment a system comprises a first transceiver antenna that wirelessly transmits a test signal. In addition the system comprises a second transceiver antenna that wirelessly receives the test signal. The system also comprises a computation component that computes a delay coefficient set of the test signal and calculates an attenuation coefficient set of the test signal. The system additionally comprises a plan component that determines a modification plan for a signal of interest based at least in part on the delay coefficient set of the test signal and the attenuation coefficient set of the test signal. The plan component is associated with the first transceiver antenna and the computation component is associated with the second transceiver antenna. The second transceiver antenna can transmit the delay coefficient set and the attenuation coefficient set to the first transceiver antenna. The first transceiver antenna can receive the delay coefficient set and the attenuation coefficient set.

In one embodiment when a signal of interest is transmitted from one antenna to another the signal experiences an unintended and avoidable attenuation and delay. In order to remove this attenuation and delay a modified signal of interest can be transmitted that compensates for indirect transmission paths. A baseline signal and a test signal can be used to determine how to modify the signal of interest to have the desired result.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

Circumstance can be considered a common situation when a signal is transmitted from the transmission antenna to the reception antenna . The transmission antenna can transmit the signal omni directionally. However for clarity illustrates two directions of transmission. Due to multiple directions it is possible that the signal will reach the reception antenna by way of different paths such as a direct path e.g. straightest path between the transmission antenna and the reception antenna that is unobstructed and an indirect path e.g. a path that reflects off ground or a signal version travels through an object . If for example a signal version travelling along the indirect path reflects off an object that signal version can lose energy when received by the reception antenna and therefore can be difficult to process. Due to these different paths different signal versions can reach the reception antenna with different delay coefficients and different attenuation coefficients. The reception system can sum together these signal versions such that a total delay coefficient and a total attenuation coefficient are produced.

It can be desirable for a signal of interest to reach the reception antenna with a minimal delay coefficient and a minimal attenuation coefficient. Aspects disclosed herein can be used to have the signal of interest reach the reception antenna in that manner. Circumstances can be viewed as four sequential events that can occur for signal communication.

With the circumstance the transmission antenna can function as a directional antenna such that an emitted signal travels in one direction as opposed to omni directional. While functioning as the directional antenna the transmission antenna can transmit a baseline signal to the reception antenna . The reception antenna receives the baseline signal that includes a direct delay coefficient and a direct attenuation coefficient. The reception system can access the baseline signal by way of the reception antenna identify the direct delay coefficient and the direct attenuation coefficient and retain those coefficients in storage.

With the circumstance the transmission antenna can function as an omni directional antenna. The transmission antenna can transmit a test signal to the reception antenna that the reception antenna receives. The test signal can be transmitted such that the test signal takes a direct path and an indirect path from the transmission antenna to the reception antenna and thus the reception antenna receives different versions of the test signal.

With circumstance the reception system can process the different versions to determine the delay coefficients of the versions and the attenuation coefficients of the versions. This processing can comprise comparing individual versions against the baseline signal discussed in circumstance to produce comparison results. These comparison results can be transmitted by the reception antenna to the transmission antenna as at least a part of delay and attenuation data.

With the circumstance the transmission system can process the delay and attenuation data received by the transmission antenna . Based on this processing the transmission system can determine how to modify the signal of interest such that the signal of interest reaches the reception antenna from the transmission antenna without indirect path delay or attenuation coefficients. The transmission antenna can transmit the modified signal of interest such that the reception antenna receives the signal of interest in a preferred form one not impacted by indirect attenuation or delay coefficients. While being shown as having one direct path and one indirect path one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the circumstances and can have more than two paths and or be absent a direct path a non reflected and non obstructed path .

The signals discussed in circumstances can be radio frequency RF signals. The RF signals can be used to characterize various propagation paths traveled by the RF signals e.g. due to obstructions and or intervening physical objects between the transmission antenna and the reception antenna and to compensate for resulting signal corruption. This characterization can detect imposed distortion and perform compensation and or equalization techniques to overcome such distortion. These compensation and or equalization techniques can be used to improve fidelity of received RF signals even when many obstructions exist. Aspects disclosed herein can be used in inter satellite communications cellular communications etc. Further aspects can be used for diagnostic purposes e.g. measure wireless channel distortion or as a measure and compensate solution.

The distortion scheme can compensate for anticipated delay and attenuation produced from travel of the signal of interest over an indirect path from the transmission antenna of to the reception antenna of . In one example omni directional communication of a signal from the transmission antenna of to the reception antenna of can travel by way of a direct path and multiple indirect paths. The distortion scheme can be such that the delay and attenuation of versions of the distorted signal of interest that travels by way of the indirect paths cancel one another out when the distorted signal of interest reaches the reception antenna of . When the reception antenna of sums together the versions total delay and attenuation can be reduced or eliminated.

The emission component can function as a distorted signal emission component that is configured to cause an emission of the distorted signal of interest . The distorted signal of interest can travel from the transmission antenna of to the reception antenna of and have sufficient energy e.g. strength so that the signal of interest can be detected at the reception antenna of . The transmission antenna of and reception antenna of can communicate in different languages e.g. the transmission antenna of is part of network A and communicates in language AA while the reception antenna of is part of network B and communicates in language BB . Thus emission from a network entity communicating in a first language can be understood by a network entity communicating in a second and different language. Languages can include communication protocols or modulation formats.

The creation component can be configured to create the distortion scheme used to distort the signal of interest of . The distortion scheme can be based at least in part on a response to the emission of the white noise signal. The creation component can identify what the make up of the white noise signal should be when the white noise signal should be emitted etc. Once the white noise signal is known the emission component can cause emission of the white noise signal.

In one embodiment the emission component can function as a baseline emission component that is configured to cause an emission of a baseline signal e.g. the baseline signal discussed for circumstance in . Emission of the baseline signal can occur prior to the emission of the white noise signal and be from the transmission antenna of to the reception antenna of . The creation component can be configured to create the distortion scheme based at least in part on the response to the emission of the white noise signal and based at least in part on a response to the emission of the baseline signal e.g. represented by the delay and attenuation data discussed in circumstance of .

In one embodiment the white noise signal is transmitted outside a frequency band of the signal of interest of . In one example circumstances of can function in the Frequent Modulation FM frequency band of 87.5 megahertz to 108 megahertz. In order to not interfere with operation and communication of the transmission antenna and reception antenna discussed above the white noise signal can be outside the FM frequency band. Therefore the emission component can function to identify an in use band and select a frequency for the baseline signal and or the white noise signal that is used in transmission.

The computation component can compute a delay coefficient set of the test signal and calculate an attenuation coefficient set of the test signal . For the calculation individual signal versions from different paths can be identified and their individual delay coefficients and attenuation coefficients can be calculated. These individual coefficients can be organized by the computation component into their respective sets as part of the computation process.

In one embodiment the computation component can calculate a first delay coefficient based on the test signal received from the first path and calculate a second delay coefficient based on the test signal received from the second path. Similarly the computation component can calculate a first attenuation coefficient based on the test signal received from the first path and calculate a second attenuation coefficient based on the test signal received from the second path. The delay coefficient set can comprise the first delay coefficient and the second delay coefficient while the attenuation coefficient set can comprise the first attenuation coefficient and the second attenuation coefficient.

The second transceiver antenna of can transmit the delay coefficient set and the attenuation coefficient set to the first transceiver antenna of . These sets can be part of the delay and attenuation data illustrated in . The first transceiver antenna of can receive these sets and transfer them to the plan component .

The plan component can determine a modification plan for the signal of interest of . This determination can be based at least in part on the delay coefficient set of the test signal and the attenuation coefficient set of the test signal . In one embodiment the plan component can function after the first transceiver antenna of receives the delay coefficient set and the attenuation coefficient set. The distortion component of can then distort the signal of interest of according to the modification plan that functions as the distortion scheme. The first transceiver antenna of can emit the signal of interest in accordance with the modification plan e.g. the distorted signal of interest of in response to a command from the emission component .

The causation component can cause the first transceiver antenna of to emit the altered signal of interest. The second transceiver antenna of can receive the altered signal of interest such that the signal of interest of is received absent indirect delay or attenuation. In addition the causation component can cause the baseline signal discussed with regard to circumstance of to be emitted when the first transceiver antenna of functions as a directional antenna.

In one embodiment the conversion component can convert the first transceiver antenna of from an omni directional antenna to a directional antenna. The conversion component can also convert the first transceiver antenna of from the directional antenna to the omni directional antenna. The causation component can cause the baseline signal to be emitted when the first transceiver antenna of functions as the directional antenna. Similarly the causation component can cause the test signal of to be emitted when the first transceiver antenna of functions as the omni directional antenna. Further the causation component can cause the altered signal of interest to be emitted when the first transceiver antenna of functions as the omni directional antenna. Therefore the conversion component can function to switch an antenna disclosed herein to and from omni directional and directional single direction .

In one embodiment a distortion scheme for a signal of interest of e.g. that is transmitted as the distorted signal of interest of from the transmission antenna of to the reception antenna of can be based at least in part on the first coefficient set and the second coefficient set. The first coefficient set can comprise a first delay coefficient that results from the first path and a first attenuation coefficient that results from the first path. Similarly the second coefficient set can comprise a second delay coefficient that results from the second path and a second attenuation coefficient that results from the second path.

In one embodiment calculating the first coefficient set for the test signal of transmitted by the transmission antenna of that travels by way of the first path comprises comparing the test signal of transmitted by the transmission antenna of that travels by way of the first path against the baseline measurement. Similarly calculating the second coefficient set for the test signal of transmitted by the transmission antenna of that travels by way of the second path comprises comparing the test signal of transmitted by the transmission antenna of that travels by way of the second path against the baseline measurement. The test signal of can be transmitted outside a frequency band of the signal of interest of . The transmission antenna of can function as a directional antenna when transmitting the baseline signal. The transmission antenna of can function as a multi directional antenna when transmitting the test signal. The transmission antenna of and reception antenna of can communicate in different languages.

