---

title: Peripheral device with haptic diminishment prevention component
abstract: A system is provided that modifies a haptic effect experienced at a user input element. The system receives a position of a trigger of a peripheral device, the peripheral device including a housing, a user input element, a haptic output device located within the housing and coupled to the user input element, and a haptic diminishment prevention component. The system further sends a haptic effect definition to the haptic output device in response to the received position of the user input element. The system further causes the haptic output device to output a force to the user input element of the peripheral device in response to the haptic effect definition. The system further causes the haptic diminishment prevention component to create a range that the user input element can move within in response to the output force when the user input element is in a maximum open position outside of the range, or a maximum closed position outside of the range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09174134&OS=09174134&RS=09174134
owner: Immersion Corporation
number: 09174134
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141112
---
One embodiment is directed generally to a device and more particularly to a device that produces haptic effects.

Video games and video game systems have become extremely popular. Video game devices or controllers typically use visual and auditory cues to provide feedback to a user. In some interface devices kinesthetic feedback such as active and resistive force feedback and or tactile feedback such as vibration texture and heat is also provided to the user more generally known collectively as haptic feedback or haptic effects. Haptic feedback can provide cues that enhance and simplify a user s interaction with a video game controller or other electronic device. Specifically vibration effects or vibrotactile haptic effects may be useful in providing cues to users of video game controllers or other electronic devices to alert the user to specific events or provide realistic feedback to create greater sensory immersion within a simulated or virtual environment.

Other devices such as medical devices automotive controls remote controls and other similar devices where a user interacts with a user input element to cause an action also benefit from haptic feedback or haptic effects. For example and not by way of limitation user input elements on medical devices may be operated by a user outside the body of a patient at a proximal portion of a medical device to cause an action within the patient s body at a distal end of the medical device. Haptic feedback or haptic effects may be employed to alert the user to specific events or provide realistic feedback to the user regarding an interaction of the medical device with the patient at the distal end of the medical device.

One embodiment is a system that modifies a haptic effect experienced at a user input element. The system receives a position of a trigger of a peripheral device the peripheral device including a housing a user input element a haptic output device located within the housing and coupled to the user input element and a haptic diminishment prevention component. The system further sends a haptic effect definition to the haptic output device in response to the received position of the user input element. The system further causes the haptic output device to output a force to the user input element of the peripheral device in response to the haptic effect definition. The system further causes the haptic diminishment prevention component to create a range that the user input element can move within in response to the output force when the trigger is in a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range.

In one embodiment a peripheral device such as a controller or gamepad can be provided that produces haptic feedback such as a trigger haptic effect at a trigger or other user input element of the peripheral device. The peripheral device can include a housing a trigger a haptic output device such as a motor or actuator and one or more haptic diminishment prevention components such as springs or frames. The peripheral device can receive haptic data such as a haptic signal from a processor. A haptic output device can output a force to a trigger in response to the received haptic data. A haptic diminishment prevention component can be positioned such that a range is created within the housing for the trigger to move in response to the force output by the haptic output device when the trigger is in either a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range. This range can be an open extended travel range when the trigger is in a maximum open position outside of the open extended travel range. This range can also be a closed extended travel range when the trigger is in a maximum closed position outside of the closed extended travel range. By creating the range the haptic diminishment prevention component can increase a magnitude of the haptic feedback e.g. trigger haptic effect when the trigger is in either a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range. In other words the haptic diminishment prevention component can prevent the magnitude of the haptic feedback from being diminished when the trigger is in either a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range. The haptic diminishment prevention component can also be identified as a haptic amplification component.

For example when the haptic diminishment prevention component is a spring the spring can be positioned to prevent the trigger from grounding against an outer portion of the housing. This creates an open extended travel range between the trigger and the outer portion of the housing. Thus when a force is applied to the trigger when the trigger is in a maximum open position outside of the open extended travel range the trigger can move within the created open extended travel range. As another example when the haptic diminishment prevention component is a frame the frame can be positioned to prevent the trigger from grounding against an inner portion of the housing when an object pushes or pulls the trigger by causing the object to ground against the frame rather than an outer portion of the housing. This creates a closed extended travel range between the trigger and the inner portion of the housing. Thus when a force is applied to the trigger when the trigger is in a maximum closed position outside of the closed extended travel range the trigger can move within the created closed extended travel range.

In another embodiment the peripheral device can include a housing a user input element e.g. analog or digital stick button etc. a haptic output device such as a motor or actuator and one or more haptic diminishment prevention components such as springs or frames. The peripheral device can receive haptic data such as a haptic signal from a processor. A haptic output device can output a force to the user input element in response to the received haptic data. A haptic diminishment prevention component can be positioned such that a range is created within the housing for the user input element to move in response to the force output by the haptic output device when the user input element is in either a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range. By creating the range the haptic diminishment prevention component can increase a magnitude of the haptic feedback e.g. haptic effect when the user input element is in either a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range. In other words the haptic diminishment prevention component can prevent the magnitude of the haptic feedback from being diminished when the user input element is in either a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range.

A computer readable medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by processor and may include both a volatile and nonvolatile medium a removable and non removable medium a communication medium and a storage medium. A communication medium may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any other form of an information delivery medium known in the art. A storage medium may include RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of a storage medium known in the art.

In one embodiment memory stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system that provides operating system functionality for system as well as the rest of an overall device in one embodiment. The modules further include a haptic trigger modification module that modifies a haptic effect experienced at a trigger. In certain embodiments haptic trigger modification module can comprise a plurality of modules where each module provides specific individual functionality for modifying a haptic effect experienced at a trigger. System will typically include one or more additional application modules to include additional functionality such as peripheral firmware which can provide control functionality for a peripheral device such as a controller .

System in embodiments that transmit and or receive data from remote sources further includes a communication device such as a network interface card to provide mobile wireless network communication such as infrared radio Wi Fi or cellular network communication. In other embodiments communication device provides a wired network connection such as an Ethernet connection or a modem.

System is operably connected to controller . Controller is a peripheral device used to provide input to system . Controller can be operably connected to system using either a wireless connection or a wired connection. Controller can further include a local processor which can communicate with system using either a wireless connection or a wired connection. Alternatively controller may be configured to not include a local processor and all input signals and or output signals associated with controller can be handled and processed directly by processor of system .

Controller can further include one or more digital buttons one or more analog buttons one or more bumpers one or more directional pads one or more analog or digital sticks one or more driving wheels and or one or more user input elements that can be interacted with by a user and that can provide input to system . Controller can also include one or more analog or digital trigger buttons or triggers that can further be interacted with by the user and that can further provide input to system . As is described below in greater detail controller can further include a motor or another type of actuator or haptic output device configured to exert a bi directional push pull force on at least one trigger of controller .

Controller can also include one or more actuators or other types of haptic output devices. The local processor of controller or processor in embodiments where controller does not include a local processor may transmit a haptic signal associated with a haptic effect to at least one actuator of controller . The actuator in turn outputs haptic effects such as vibrotactile haptic effects kinesthetic haptic effects or deformation haptic effects in response to the haptic signal. The haptic effects can be experienced at a user input element e.g. a digital button analog button bumper directional pad analog or digital stick driving wheel or trigger of controller . Alternatively the haptic effects can be experienced at an outer surface of controller . The actuator includes an actuator drive circuit. The actuator may be for example an electric motor an electro magnetic actuator a voice coil a shape memory alloy an electro active polymer a solenoid an eccentric rotating mass motor ERM a linear resonant actuator LRA a piezoelectric actuator a high bandwidth actuator an electroactive polymer EAP actuator an electrostatic friction display or an ultrasonic vibration generator. An actuator is an example of a haptic output device where a haptic output device is a device configured to output haptic effects such as vibrotactile haptic effects electrostatic friction haptic effects or deformation haptic effects in response to a drive signal. In alternate embodiments the one or more actuators within controller can be replaced by some other type of haptic output device.

Controller can further include one or more speakers. The local processor of controller or processor in embodiments where controller does not include a local processor may transmit an audio signal to at least one speaker of controller which in turn outputs audio effects. The speaker may be for example a dynamic loudspeaker an electrodynamic loudspeaker a piezoelectric loudspeaker a magnetostrictive loudspeaker an electrostatic loudspeaker a ribbon and planar magnetic loudspeaker a bending wave loudspeaker a flat panel loudspeaker a heil air motion transducer a plasma arc speaker and a digital loudspeaker.

Controller can further include one or more sensors. A sensor can be configured to detect a form of energy or other physical property such as but not limited to sound movement acceleration bio signals distance flow force pressure strain bend humidity linear position orientation inclination radio frequency rotary position rotary velocity manipulation of a switch temperature vibration or visible light intensity. The sensor can further be configured to convert the detected energy or other physical property into an electrical signal or any signal that represents virtual sensor information and controller can send the converted signal to the local processor of controller or processor in embodiments where controller does not include a local processor. The sensor can be any device such as but not limited to an accelerometer an electrocardiogram an electroencephalogram an electromyograph an electrooculogram an electropalatograph a galvanic skin response sensor a capacitive sensor a hall effect sensor an infrared sensor an ultrasonic sensor a pressure sensor a fiber optic sensor a flexion sensor or bend sensor a force sensitive resistor a load cell a LuSense CPS155 a miniature pressure transducer a piezo sensor a strain gage a hygrometer a linear position touch sensor a linear potentiometer or slider a linear variable differential transformer a compass an inclinometer a magnetic tag or radio frequency identification tag a rotary encoder a rotary potentiometer a gyroscope an on off switch a temperature sensor such as a thermometer thermocouple resistance temperature detector thermistor or temperature transducing integrated circuit microphone photometer altimeter bio monitor camera or a light dependent resistor.

A housing of controller is shaped to easily accommodate two hands gripping the device either by a left handed user or a right handed user. Those skilled in the art would recognize that controller is merely an example embodiment of a controller of similar shape and size to many gamepads currently available for video game console systems such as a Microsoft Xbox One controller or a PlayStation DualShock controller and that controllers with other configurations of user input elements shapes and sizes may be used including but not limited to controllers such as a Wii remote or Wii U Controller Sony SixAxis controller or Sony Wand controller as well as controllers shaped as real life objects such as tennis rackets golf clubs baseball bats and the like and other shapes or controllers with a display or head mounted display.

Controller includes several user input elements including an analog or digital stick a button and a trigger . As used herein user input element refers to an interface device such as a trigger button analog or digital stick or the like which is manipulated by the user to interact with host computer . As can be seen in and as known to those skilled in the art more than one of each user input element and additional user input elements may be included on controller . Accordingly the present description of a trigger for example does not limit controller to a single trigger. Further the block diagram of shows only one 1 of each of analog or digital stick button and trigger . However those skilled in the art would understand that multiple analog or digital sticks buttons and triggers as well as other user input elements may be used as described above.

As can be seen in the block diagram of controller includes a targeted actuator or motor to directly drive each of the user input elements thereof as well as one or more general or rumble actuators operably coupled to housing in a location where a hand of the user is generally located. More particularly analog or digital stick includes a targeted actuator or motor operably coupled thereto button includes a targeted actuator or motor operably coupled thereto and trigger includes a targeted actuator or motor operably coupled thereto. In addition to a plurality of targeted actuators controller includes a position sensor operably coupled to each of the user input elements thereof. More particularly analog or digital stick includes a position sensor operably coupled thereto button includes a position sensor operably coupled thereto and trigger includes a position sensor operably coupled thereto. Local processor is operably coupled to targeted actuators as well as position sensors of analog or digital stick button and trigger respectively. In response to signals received from position sensors local processor instructs targeted actuators to provide directed or targeted kinesthetic effects directly to analog or digital stick button and trigger respectively. Such targeted kinesthetic effects are discernible or distinguishable from general or rumble haptic effects produced by general actuators along the entire body of the controller. The collective haptic effects provide the user with a greater sense of immersion to the game as multiple modalities are being simultaneously engaged e.g. video audio and haptics. Further details of a controller configured to produce haptics is described in greater detail in application Ser. No. 14 258 644 filed Apr. 22 2014 entitled GAMING DEVICE HAVING A HAPTIC ENABLED TRIGGER herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Device includes game input management code . Game input management code includes a set of computer readable instructions that manage input provided by controller in the context of a game application or other type of application executed within device . Device further includes peripheral input application programming interface API . Peripheral input API includes a set of computer readable functions or routines that allow game input management code to interact with peripheral firmware in order to receive and manage input provided by controller . Device further includes rumble API . Rumble API includes a set of computer readable functions or routines that allow game input management code to interact with peripheral firmware in order to transmit rumble instructions to one or more rumble motors or rumble actuators of controller e.g. rumble motors L and R as illustrated in . A rumble instruction can cause a rumble motor or rumble actuator of controller to produce a general or rumble haptic effect.

Device further includes trigger haptic effect API identified in as API . Trigger haptic effect API includes a set of computer readable functions or routines that are exposed to game input management code and that allow game input management code to interact with peripheral firmware in order to transmit haptic instructions to controller such as trigger instructions to one or more triggers of controllers e.g. triggers L and R as illustrated in . A haptic instruction can cause one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators of controller to produce a haptic effect at one or more user input elements of controllers . A trigger instruction is a specific type of haptic instruction that can cause one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators of controller e.g. motors L and R as illustrated in to produce a trigger haptic effect at one or more triggers of controllers e.g. triggers L and R as illustrated in . A trigger haptic effect is a specific type of haptic effect that is experienced at a trigger of a controller such as controller . Trigger haptic effect API can store one or more trigger haptic effect definitions. A haptic effect definition is a data structure that includes haptic data such as a haptic signal that is pre defined and that can be stored within a storage such as a haptic file or haptic stream and that can be sent to one or more rumble motors rumble actuators targeted motors or targeted actuators to produce a haptic effect at a component or user input element of controller . The haptic data can include one or more attributes of the corresponding haptic effect where the attributes can be stored as parameters. Example parameters of a haptic effect definition include an amplitude parameter a frequency parameter a waveform parameter an envelope parameter a magnitude or strength parameter and a duration parameter. A trigger haptic effect definition is a specific type of haptic effect definition that can be sent to one or more motors or actuators of controller e.g. motors L and R as illustrated in to produce a trigger haptic effect at one or more triggers of controllers e.g. triggers L and R as illustrated in .

According to the embodiment trigger haptic effect API can allow game input management code to interact with direct playback crossover trigger engine and spatialization engine and can further manage direct playback crossover trigger engine and spatialization engine according to requests invoked by game input management code . Further trigger haptic effect API can store data required for communication with peripheral firmware and required for generation of one or more trigger haptic effects. In an alternate embodiment trigger haptic effect API can reside within peripheral firmware rather than device .

Device further includes direct playback crossover . Direct playback crossover receives haptic data as input produces haptic data as output and transmits haptic data to one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators of controller e.g. motors L and R as illustrated in . In certain embodiments direct playback crossover can output the input haptic data directly without modifying a format of the input haptic data. This results in an as is playback of the input haptic data. In other embodiments direct playback crossover can convert the haptic data that is input from a first format to a second format and can further output the converted haptic data. Depending on the type of playback direct playback crossover can optionally use a programmable crossover to convert the haptic data. By converting the haptic data device can deconstruct the haptic effect and playback the haptic effect at multiple actuators faithfully. In one embodiment the format of the haptic data can be a Haptic Elementary Stream HES format. A HES format is a file or data format for representing haptic data that can be streamed to a device. The haptic data can be represented in a manner that is identical or similar to how uncompressed sound is represented although the haptic data can be encrypted within the HES format. In an alternate embodiment direct playback crossover can reside within peripheral firmware rather than device .

Device further includes trigger engine . Trigger engine can receive haptic data such as a trigger haptic effect definition and can modify the haptic data based on data such as trigger data e.g. trigger data as illustrated in received from controller . Trigger data is data that includes one or more parameters that indicate a position and or range of one or more triggers of controller e.g. triggers L and R as illustrated in . Trigger engine can further transmit haptic instructions to controller . For example trigger engine can transmit trigger instructions to one or more triggers of controller e.g. triggers L and R as illustrated in . As previously described a trigger instruction can cause one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators of controller e.g. motors L and R as illustrated in to produce a trigger haptic effect at one or more triggers of controllers e.g. triggers L and R as illustrated in . Thus in one embodiment by modifying the haptic data of the trigger haptic effect definition trigger engine can cause a specific trigger haptic effect to be experienced at a trigger based on a position and or range of the trigger. In another embodiment by modifying the haptic data of the trigger haptic effect definition trigger engine can scale a trigger haptic effect for one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators of controller e.g. motors L and R as illustrated in based on a position and or range of the trigger. Trigger engine can further store one or more haptic effect definitions such as trigger haptic effect definitions. In an alternate embodiment trigger engine can reside within peripheral firmware rather than device .

Device further includes spatialization engine identified in as spatialisation engine . Spatialization engine can receive haptic data such as a trigger haptic effect definition and can modify the haptic data based on spatialization data. Spatialization data can include data that indicates a desired direction and or flow of a haptic effect such as a trigger haptic effect. In certain embodiments spatialization engine can receive spatialization data that includes a direction and or flow from game input management code . Further spatialization data can also include one or more positions of one or more hands of a user located on controller . In certain embodiments spatialization engine can receive spatialization data that includes one or more hand positions from controller . Further in certain embodiments spatialization engine can receive spatialization data that includes a position of a user s character within a game application as communicated by game input management code .

According to the embodiment spatialization engine can modify the haptic data so that a haptic effect such as a trigger haptic effect is scaled for one or more rumble motors or rumble actuators of controller e.g. rumble motors L and R as illustrated in and that the haptic effect is also scaled for one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators of controller e.g. motors L and R as illustrated in . In other words spatialization engine can modify the haptic data that is sent to each motor or actuator and thus modify the haptic effect that is experienced at each motor or actuator in order to convey a sense of direction and flow of an overall haptic effect. For example in order to emphasize a haptic effect experienced at a motor or actuator spatialization engine may scale one or more portions of the haptic effect. For example spatialization engine may scale haptic data that is sent to the motor or actuator that causes the haptic effect to be experienced causing the haptic effect to be more pronounced e.g. increased magnitude duration etc. . Additionally spatialization engine may scale haptic data that is sent to other motors or actuators causing other haptic effects that are experienced at those motors or actuators to be less pronounced e.g. decreased magnitude duration etc. . In certain embodiments spatialization engine can modify the haptic data in real time. Further in certain embodiments spatialization engine can have non linear relationships between inputs and motor or actuator outputs in order to exaggerate an overall trigger haptic effect. In an alternate embodiment spatialization engine can reside within peripheral firmware rather than device .

Device further includes encoder . Encoder encodes haptic data received from direct playback crossover trigger engine and or spatialization engine into a format. In one embodiment the format can be an HES format. Encoder further transmits the encoded haptic data to peripheral firmware .

Peripheral firmware includes decoder and crossover . Decoder and crossover receives the encoded haptic data from encoder and decodes the encoded haptic data. In certain embodiments decoder and crossover computes a programmable crossover in order to decode the encoded haptic data. In some of these embodiments decoder and crossover computes the programmable crossover in real time. Peripheral firmware further includes trigger control . Trigger control is a low level control API for one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators of controller e.g. motors L and R as illustrated in . Trigger control can receive a trigger instruction from device can convert the trigger instruction into a low level trigger instruction for a specified targeted motor or targeted actuator of controller and can transmit the low level trigger instruction to the specified targeted motor or targeted actuator of controller . The low level trigger instruction can cause the specified targeted motor or targeted actuator to produce a trigger haptic effect at a specified trigger of controller .

Peripheral firmware further includes trigger data . Trigger data as previously described is data that includes one or more parameters that indicate a position and or range of one or more triggers of controller e.g. triggers L and R as illustrated in . Trigger data can be received from controller by peripheral firmware . Peripheral firmware can further store trigger data and can further transmit trigger data to device . Peripheral firmware further includes other gamepad functions which are functions of controller that can be managed by peripheral firmware . Such functions can include such functions as wired wireless communications input reporting protocol implementation power management etc. Peripheral firmware further includes rumble control . Rumble control is a low level control API for one or more rumble motors or rumble actuators of controller e.g. rumble motors L and R as illustrated in . Rumble control can receive a rumble instruction from device can convert the rumble instruction into a low level rumble instruction for a specified rumble motor or rumble actuator of controller and can transmit the low level trigger instruction to the specified rumble motor or rumble actuator of controller .

Controller includes triggers L and R. Controller further includes gear boxes L and R and motors L and R. Motor L and gearbox L are operably coupled to trigger L within controller . Likewise motor R and gearbox R are operably coupled to trigger R within controller . When motor L receives a trigger instruction motor L and gearbox L collectively cause a trigger haptic effect to be experienced at trigger L. Likewise when motor R receives a trigger instruction motor R and gearbox R collectively cause a trigger haptic effect to be experienced at trigger R. According to the embodiment peripheral firmware sends trigger instructions to motors L and R of controller using drive electronics . Controller further includes potentiometers L and R. Potentiometer L can detect a position and or range of trigger L and can further send the detected position and or range of trigger L to peripheral firmware as trigger data. Likewise potentiometer R can detect a position and or range of trigger R and can further send the detected position and or range of trigger R to peripheral firmware as trigger data. In one embodiment potentiometers L and R can each be replaced with another type of position sensor such as a hall effect sensor. Controller further includes rumble motors L and R. When rumble motor L receives a rumble instruction rumble motor L causes a haptic effect to be experienced along a left body of controller . Likewise when rumble motor R receives a rumble instruction rumble motor R cause a haptic effect to be experienced along a right body of controller . According to the embodiment peripheral firmware sends rumble instructions to rumble motors L and R of controller using rumble drive electronics .

In an alternate embodiment one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators can be operably coupled to one or more user input elements such as one or more digital buttons one or more analog buttons one or more bumpers one or more directional pads one or more analog or digital sticks one or more driving wheels of controller . According to the alternate embodiment peripheral firmware can sends instructions to the one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators causing the one or more targeted motors or targeted actuators to produce haptic effects that are experienced at the one or more user input elements of controller .

As previously described a controller gamepad or other peripheral device can include one or more general or rumble motors or actuators and one or more targeted motors or actuators. Such a controller can produce spatialization haptic effects which are haptic effects where localized haptic feedback can be experienced on the controller. For example a user can perceive localized haptic effects that are played at one or more triggers of the controller while resting their fingers on the one or more triggers. These localized haptic effects can be distinct from more general haptic effects that can be played within a housing of the controller and that can be more generally perceived by the user s hands while holding the controller. In one example within a gaming application a user s in game character may be hit with a sorcerer s spell. In conjunction with the visual representation of the spell displayed within the gaming application a localized haptic effect can first be experienced at a trigger by the user and a more general haptic effect can subsequently be experienced at the controller by the user.

A trigger can be housed within a housing of a controller or other type of peripheral device. The trigger can extend possibly outside of the housing so that it makes contact with an outer rotational hard stop or some other outer portion of the housing. More specifically the trigger can be extended possibly by a spring and can make contact with the outer rotational hard stop or some other outer portion of the housing. When an object e.g. a user s finger moves e.g. pulls or pushes the trigger the trigger can rotate or otherwise move into the housing until it makes contact with an inner rotational hard stop or some other inner portion of the housing while still being in contact with the object. When a targeted motor or actuator or some other type of haptic output device applies a force to the trigger the trigger can rotate or otherwise move. This rotation or other type of movement can be towards an outer rotational hard stop or away from the outer rotational hard stop.

Using a standard trigger design in a controller however can result in a diminished haptic feedback sensation when the trigger is either in a maximum open position or a maximum closed position. A maximum open position of a trigger is a position of the trigger when little or no force is applied to the trigger such that the trigger has not begun to rotate or otherwise move into the housing. A maximum open position can also be identified as a resting position. In a maximum open position the trigger can be grounded against an outer rotational hard stop or some other outer portion of the housing of the controller. This can provide the trigger with little to no space to rotate or otherwise move in response to a force that is produced by a targeted motor or actuator and that is applied to the trigger.

A maximum closed position of a trigger is a position of the trigger when a force is applied to the trigger such that the trigger has rotated or otherwise moved a maximum distance into the housing. Similar to a maximum open position in a maximum closed position the trigger can be grounded against an inner rotational hard stop or some other inner portion of the housing of the controller. This can also provide the trigger with little to no space to rotate or otherwise move in response to a force that is produced by a targeted motor or actuator and applied to the trigger. This lack of ability to move in either the maximum open position or the maximum closed position can reduce a magnitude of or otherwise dampen a haptic feedback sensation experienced at the trigger.

Thus in one embodiment a peripheral device can also include one or more haptic diminishment prevention components such as one or more springs one or more frames or a combination of the two. A haptic diminishment prevention component can increase a magnitude of a trigger haptic effect experienced at a trigger when the trigger is in a maximum open position outside of an open extended travel range created by the haptic diminishment prevention component. This is further described below in greater detail in conjunction with . Further a haptic diminishment prevention component can increase a magnitude of a trigger haptic effect experienced at a trigger when the trigger is in a maximum closed position outside of a closed extended travel range created by the haptic diminishment prevention component. This is further described below in greater detail in conjunction with . Thus in accordance with an embodiment in addition to a maximum open position and a maximum closed position two new positions are further defined a maximum open position outside an open extended travel range and a maximum closed position outside a closed extended travel range. A maximum open position outside an open extended travel range is identical to a maximum open position except that the maximum open position outside the open extended travel range is positioned by a haptic diminishment prevention component so that it is not positioned within an open extended travel range. A maximum closed position outside a closed extended travel range is identical to a maximum closed position except that the maximum closed position outside the closed extended travel range is positioned by a haptic diminishment prevention component so that it is not positioned within a closed extended travel range. A maximum open position outside an open extended travel range and a maximum closed position outside a closed extended travel range are further described below in greater detail in conjunction with . In an alternate embodiment the trigger can be replaced with another type of user input element e.g. a button bumper directional pad analog or digital stick driving wheel and the trigger haptic effect can be replaced with a more general haptic effect. In this alternate embodiment the haptic diminishment prevention component can increase a magnitude of the haptic effect experienced at the user input element.

View is a view of the controller where outer spring holds trigger in a position such that trigger is not resting at or otherwise making contact with an outer rotational hard stop or an outer portion of a housing of the controller when trigger is in a maximum open position outside of open extended travel range . In other words outer spring creates open extended travel range where open extended travel range is a range that trigger can rotate or otherwise move within in response to a force that is produced by a targeted motor or actuator and applied to trigger . By creating open extended travel range outer spring can prevent trigger from grounding on the outer rotational hard stop or the outer portion of the housing when trigger rotates or otherwise moves in response to the force that is applied to trigger . This can increase a magnitude of a trigger haptic effect e.g. kinesthetic haptic effect experienced at trigger . In the illustrated embodiment outer spring is a cantilever spring that includes lever arm where lever arm pushes against or otherwise makes contact with trigger to hold trigger in the aforementioned position. In an alternate embodiment outer spring can be a compression spring bias spring or some other type of spring that pushes against or otherwise makes contact with trigger .

View is a view of the controller where a targeted motor or actuator applies a force to trigger and trigger rotates or otherwise moves in response to the force. As illustrated in view of trigger rotates or otherwise moves into open extended travel range and occupies at least a portion of open extended travel range . In the illustrated embodiment trigger pushes against or otherwise makes contact with lever arm . This moves lever arm so that trigger can rotate or otherwise move into extended travel range . In an alternate embodiment where outer spring is a compression spring bias spring or another type of spring trigger can push against or otherwise make contact with outer spring which can move outer spring so that trigger can rotate or otherwise move into open extended travel range .

In an alternate embodiment outer spring can be replaced with an inner spring. The inner spring can be positioned between trigger and an inner rotational hard stop or an inner portion of a housing of the controller. Further the inner spring can pull trigger such that trigger is not resting at or otherwise making contact with an outer rotational hard stop or an outer portion of a housing of the controller i.e. such that extended travel range is created . In this alternate embodiment a stiffness of inner spring can be calculated in order to avoid pulling trigger so that trigger is resting at or otherwise making contact with an inner rotational hard stop or an inner portion of a housing of the controller.

View is a view of the controller where a targeted motor or actuator applies a force to trigger and trigger rotates or otherwise moves in response to the force. As illustrated in view of trigger rotates or otherwise moves into closed extended travel range and occupies at least a portion of closed extended travel range .

In an alternate embodiment extended frame can be replaced with an inner spring. The inner spring can be positioned between trigger and an inner rotational hard stop or an inner portion of a housing of the controller. Further the inner spring can push trigger where object has pushed pulled or otherwise moved trigger such that trigger is not resting at or otherwise making contact with an inner rotational hard stop or an inner portion of a housing of the controller i.e. such that closed extended travel range is created . In this alternate embodiment a stiffness of inner spring can be calculated in order to provide sufficient resistance to prevent trigger from resting at or otherwise making contact with an inner rotational hard stop or an inner portion of a housing of the controller.

The flow begins and proceeds to . At a position of a user input element of a peripheral device is received. The peripheral device can be a controller or a gamepad. The peripheral device can further include a housing a user input element a position sensor coupled to the user input element a haptic output device located within the housing and coupled to the user input element and a haptic diminishment prevention component. The haptic output device can be an actuator. In an embodiment where the haptic output device is an actuator the actuator can be a motor configured to exert a bi directional push pull force. The haptic diminishment prevention component can be a spring. In an embodiment where the haptic diminishment prevention component is a spring the spring can be a cantilever spring. In an alternate embodiment where the haptic diminishment prevention component is a spring the spring can be a compression spring. In an alternate embodiment the haptic diminishment prevention component can be a frame. In an embodiment where the haptic diminishment prevention component is a frame the frame can be an extended frame that is an extension of an outer portion of the housing. In one embodiment a user input element can be a trigger. The flow then proceeds to .

At a haptic effect definition is sent to the haptic output device of the peripheral device in response to the received position of the user input element. The haptic effect definition can include haptic data to produce a haptic effect at a user input element of the peripheral device. In one embodiment the haptic effect definition can be a trigger haptic effect definition that can include haptic data to produce a trigger haptic effect at a trigger of the peripheral device. In one embodiment a processor causes the haptic effect definition to be sent to the haptic output device. Further in one embodiment the haptic effect definition is generated by the processor in response to the position of the user input element of the peripheral device. In one embodiment the processor is located within the housing of the peripheral device. In an alternate embodiment the processor is remotely located from the housing of the peripheral device. The flow then proceeds to .

At a force is output to the user input element of the peripheral device in response to the haptic effect definition. In one embodiment the haptic output device of the peripheral device can output the force and the processor can cause the haptic output device to output the force. Further in one embodiment the force is transmitted from the haptic output device to the user input element as a kinesthetic haptic effect. The flow then proceeds to .

At a range is created that the user input element can move within in response to the output force when the user input element is in at least one of a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range. In one embodiment the haptic diminishment prevention component of the peripheral device can create the range. In one embodiment the maximum open position of the user input element can be a position of the user input element such that the user input element has not moved into the housing and the maximum closed position of the user input element can be a position of the user input element such that the user input element has moved a maximum distance into the housing. In one embodiment the haptic diminishment prevention component is a spring when the user input element is in the maximum open position outside of the range. In this embodiment the spring can maintain the user input element in a position such that there is an open extended travel range between the user input element and an outer portion of the housing. This open extended travel range can be the range that the user input element can move within in response to the output force. In another embodiment the haptic diminishment prevention component is a frame when the user input element is in the maximum closed position outside of the range. In this embodiment an object can ground on the frame when the object moves the user input element into the maximum closed position outside of the range and the position of the user input element is such that there is a closed extended travel range between the user input element and an inner portion of the housing. This closed extended travel range can be the range that the user input element can move within in response to the output force. In another embodiment the haptic diminishment prevention component is a spring when the user input element is in the maximum closed position outside of the range. In this embodiment the spring can maintain the user input element in a position such that there is a closed extended travel range between the user input element and an inner portion of the housing when an object moves the user input element into the maximum closed position outside of the range. The flow then ends.

Thus in one embodiment a peripheral device can include one or more haptic diminishment prevention components such as springs or frames where a haptic diminishment prevention component is configured to increase a magnitude of a trigger haptic effect experienced at a trigger when the trigger is either in a maximum open position outside of the range or a maximum closed position outside of the range. Increasing a magnitude of haptic feedback sensations for these key locations can allow for richer trigger haptic effects that consume less power. By providing richer trigger haptic effects a more realistic and immersive gaming experience can be provided.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of one embodiment some embodiments certain embodiment certain embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases one embodiment some embodiments a certain embodiment certain embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

One having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the invention as discussed above may be practiced with steps in a different order and or with elements in configurations which are different than those which are disclosed. Therefore although the invention has been described based upon these preferred embodiments it would be apparent to those of skill in the art that certain modifications variations and alternative constructions would be apparent while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention. In order to determine the metes and bounds of the invention therefore reference should be made to the appended claims.

