---

title: Machine-differentiatable identifiers having a commonly accepted meaning
abstract: Embodiments include an article of manufacture, apparatus, device, system, computer-program product, and method. In an embodiment, system is provided that includes at least two machine-differentiatable identifiers, each identifier of the at least two machine-differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and associatable with a hand-formed mark on a surface. The system also includes a commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine-differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine-differentiatable identifiers. The system may include a surface displaying the at least two machine-differentiatable identifiers. The system may include a surface displaying the at least two machine-differentiatable identifiers and the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine-differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine-differentiatable identifiers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09459693&OS=09459693&RS=09459693
owner: Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 09459693
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140210
---
The present application is related to and or claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. Stephen G. Kunin USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The USPTO further has provided forms for the Application Data Sheet which allow automatic loading of bibliographic data but which require identification of each application as a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant has provided designation s of a relationship between the present application and its parent application s as set forth above and in any ADS filed in this application but expressly points out that such designation s are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

An embodiment provides a system. The system includes at least two machine differentiatable identifiers each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface. The system also includes a commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers. The system may include a surface displaying the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers. The system may include a surface displaying the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers and the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a system. The system includes a first means for labeling a hand formed mark on a surface and for keying to a first data recipient. The system also includes a second means for labeling the hand formed mark on a surface and keying to a second data recipient. The first means and the second means respectively having a commonly accepted meaning by a group of users. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes providing a set of labels each label respectively including a unique machine distinguishable identifier keyed to a data recipient a meaning and a user associability with a handwritten mark on a surface. The method also includes causing the meaning of each respective label of the set of labels to be a commonly accepted meaning by a group of users. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a system. The system includes an article and a computer program product. The article includes at least two unique tags. Each tag of the at least two unique tags respectively includes a commonly accepted meaning a machine distinguishable identifier keyed to a data recipient and a user associability with a hand formed mark on a surface. The commonly accepted meaning of each respective tag of the at least two unique tags includes a commonly accepted meaning in a group of users. The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computer system. The process includes receiving a signal indicative of the hand formed mark on a surface. The process also includes receiving a signal indicative of a tag associated with the hand formed mark the tag being a tag selected from the at least two unique tags. In response to the tag the process distributes a representation of the hand formed mark to a data recipient. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

The foregoing is a summary and thus by necessity contains simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects inventive features and advantages of the devices and or processes described herein as defined solely by the claims will become apparent in the detailed description set forth herein.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the several figures like referenced numerals identify like elements. The detailed description and the drawings illustrate exemplary embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the claimed subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface having a character key based other user data input via the touch sensitive display using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements not shown are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device. The device functional elements are driven by a device functional element s interface which coupled with the system bus . A functional element may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The following includes a series of illustrations depicting implementations of processes. For ease of understanding certain illustrations are organized such that the initial illustrations present implementations via an overall big picture viewpoint and thereafter the following illustrations present alternate implementations and or expansions of the big picture illustrations as either sub steps or additional steps building on one or more earlier presented illustrations. This style of presentation utilized herein e.g. beginning with a presentation of a illustration s presenting an overall view and thereafter providing additions to and or further details in subsequent illustrations generally allows for a rapid and easy understanding of the various process implementations.

The document includes a content portion . The content portion may include a word illustrated as a word Rhett a phrase illustrated as the phrase Frankly my dear I don t give a damn and or other printed or native content schematically illustrated as a textual paragraph . In another embodiment the content portion may include a textual content portion. For example a textual content portion may include words printed on a page such as a page of a book and or words printed on a cover or a spine of a book. In a further embodiment the content portion may include a human language content for example text printed in roman alphabet characters math symbols and or script characters such as Asian language characters. In another embodiment the content portion may include a human readable content and or graphical content. In an embodiment the content portion may include a graphical content having a meaning or a significance to a human such as a picture a drawing a figure a photograph an illustration a diagram a doodle a decoration a sketch and or a portrait. In another embodiment the content portion may be arbitrary and not recognizable by an individual human reader. In a further embodiment the content portion may include any content primarily useful to a human reader. For example a content portion may include a textual and or graphical label on a retail article such as clothing a retail package or a carton. A content portion may include an address written on shipping label or an address written on a side of a building. A content portion may include an odometer reading on a vehicle or a temperature reading on a thermometer. In another embodiment the content portion may include an incidental element not primarily employed by a human reader but that aids in distinguishing the document. For example an incidental element may include a coffee stain a torn page and or a physical attribute of the document. In an embodiment a content portion may include a human and or machine recognizable characteristic form or shape such a pair of skis a car and or a dress.

In an embodiment the content portion of the document may be displayed on a surface such as a paper surface a surface of a sheet of paper a surface of a newspaper a surface of a book and or a surface of a poster. In a further embodiment the surface may include a surface of a box a surface of a container a surface of a carton a surface of a label a surface of a currency bill or note and or a surface of a check. In another embodiment a surface may include a surface of an article of clothing a surface of an item a surface of a structure a surface of a vehicle and or a surface of an indicator. In an embodiment a surface may include content located in at least two planes. In another embodiment a surface may include a planar surface. In an embodiment the content portion may be electronically displayed such as a text displayed through the surface and or a text projected on the surface. The surface electronically displaying the content portion may include a surface of a computer monitor a surface of a television screen and or a surface of an e paper 

The exemplary handheld writing device includes a writing element . In an embodiment the writing element may include an active writing element such as an ink cartridge operable to discharge a marking fluid onto a surface of a document. The active writing element may include a replaceable ink cartridge. In another embodiment the active writing element may include a pencil lead. In a further embodiment the writing element may include a non marking element such as non marking stylus.

The writing device also includes a writing detector module operable to generate information indicative of a handwriting movement by the writing element . The handwriting movement is illustrated as My favorite movie line. The writing detector module may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or a combination thereof. An embodiment of the writing detector module may be implemented using reflected light optical image sonar ultrasound and or accelerometer detection of a handwriting movement. The handwriting movement may be formed in response to hand movements. In an alternative embodiment the handwriting movement may be formed in response to movements of another part of a body such as by movement of a user s head while holding the writing device in their mouth.

In an embodiment information includes data that may be processed stored or transmitted by a computing device. In another embodiment information includes a meaning of data as may be interpreted by or meaningful to people. In an embodiment data includes a piece or pieces of information. Data may include facts quantities characters and or symbols. Data may be subject to operations by a computer saved and transmitted by electrical signals.

In an embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented by illuminating a surface of the document from the handheld writing device and determining the handwriting movement of the writing element in response to reflected illumination from the surface such as more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 741 335 titled OPTICAL TRANSLATION MEASUREMENT issued on May 25 2004 Kinrot et al. as inventor U.S. Pat. No. 6 452 683 titled OPTICAL TRANSLATION MEASUREMENT issued on Sep. 17 2002 Kinrot et al. as inventor and U.S. Pat. No. 6 330 057 titled OPTICAL TRANSLATION MEASUREMENT issued on Dec. 11 2001 Lederer et al. as inventor each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all that they disclose and teach. In another embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented by capturing images of a pattern in a writing base and handwriting movements of the pen determined by calculating positions of the writing element based on the images of the writing base such as more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 180 509 published as US 2004 0179000 titled ELECTRONIC PEN MOUNTING PART THEREFOR AND METHOD OF MAKING THE PEN filed Jun. 26 2002 under application Ser. No. 10 179 949 Fermgard et al. as inventor which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that is discloses and teaches. In a further embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented using ultrasound to track a handwriting movement of a writing element such as more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 356 published as US 2003 0173121 titled DIGITZER PEN filed Mar. 18 2002 under application Ser. No. 10 098 390 Zloter et al. as inventor which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that it discloses and teaches. In an embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented using a sensor package that measures velocity acceleration and angular acceleration in a handheld writing device such as more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 993 451 published as US 2004 0260507 titled 3D INPUT APPARATUS AND METHOD THEREOF filed Jun. 17 2004 under application Ser. No. 10 868 959 Chang et al. as inventor which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that it discloses and teaches. In another embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented using an image processing approach that captures and saves segments of a writing movement as a separate image. The final output is a combination of multiple images superimposed on each other.

In another embodiment the writing detector module may generate information indicative of a handwriting movement by capturing images of the handwriting movement and stitching the images together.

In an embodiment the writing detector module may include an electrical circuit operable to generate information indicative of a handwriting movement of the writing element. In a further embodiment the writing detector module may include operability to generate information indicative of a movement of the writing element generated by an activity of writing by hand. In another embodiment the writing detector module may include operability to generate information indicative of a movement of the writing element in response to a hand generated activity.

In a further embodiment the writing detector module may generate raw handwriting movement information. In another embodiment the writing detector module may process the raw handwriting movement information.

The writing device also includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. In an embodiment a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting may include a content portion separated from the handwriting movement of less than approximately one to two inches. In another embodiment a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement may include a content portion and a handwriting movement both on a page. In a further embodiment a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement may include a content portion on a body that includes the handwriting movement. In an inanimate example the content portion may be a book title and or author printed on a book spine or cover and the handwriting movement being on a page of the book. In an animate example the content portion may include a portion of a human body such as a skin surface having a landmark and the handwriting movement being on the skin surface and proximate to the landmark such a surgeon marking incision lines before beginning a procedure.

The context detector module may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or any combination thereof. In an embodiment the context detector module may include an electrical circuit operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element such as the phrase and or the word . An embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a displayed document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. A further alternative embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of an electronically displayed document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. Another embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a printed content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. An embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a printed content portion of a paper based document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. A further alternative embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of an e paper document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element.

In an embodiment the context detector module may include an image capture device having a lens . The image capture device includes operability to capture at least one image of the content portion proximate to the handwriting movement such as the phrase and or the word . The image capture device and the lens may have any location with respect to the handheld writing device suitable for capturing at least one image of a content portion proximate to the handwriting movement including within an outer periphery of the handheld writing device and or outside the outer periphery. In another embodiment the image capture device includes operability to capture image information of the displayed content portion proximate to the handwriting movement with a resolution sufficient to render the image information into textural information by an optical character resolution process.

In a further embodiment the image capture device includes operability to capture at least one image of a displayed content portion as a writer moves the writing element of the handheld writing device toward the document . In another embodiment the image capture device includes operability to capture at least one image of a displayed content portion as a writer imparts a handwriting movement to the writing element. In a further embodiment the image capture device includes operability to capture at least one image of a displayed content portion as a writer moves the writing element of the handheld writing device away from the document. The lens may include a user adjustable orientation allowing a user to optimize image capture.

In an embodiment the context detector module may include a user activatable switch not shown allowing a user to select when the information indicative of a content portion of a document element will be captured. For example the image capture device may include a user activatable switch allowing a user to select when an image of a content portion is obtained. A user may aim the lens at a content portion and capture an image by activating the switch. The switch may include a hardware switch a motion sensitive switch and or a voice activated switch.

In an embodiment the context detector module may further include operability to acquire contextual information from another source and to use that contextual information to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. For example the handwriting movement may occur proximate to a surface or a device operable to generate contextual information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement. The surface may include a touch sensitive screen coupled to a circuit operable to generate the contextual information. Alternatively the handwriting movement may occur proximate to a surface monitored by an ultrasonic system coupled to a circuit operable to generate contextual information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement.

In a further embodiment the context detector module may generate raw information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. In another embodiment the context detector module may process the raw context portion information.

In another embodiment the context detector module may include operability to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement using other technologies. For example information indicative of a content portion may be generated using data from a radio frequency identification device RFID associated with the document a global positioning satellite system and or other data signal.

In an alternative embodiment the handheld writing device may include a recognition module . The recognition module includes operability to generate information indicative of a human readable content in response to the information indicative of the hand driven movement of the writing element. For example in an embodiment the recognition module may determine a presence of human readable content in the information indicative of the hand driven or handwriting movement generated by the writing detector module recognize the human readable content as My favorite movie line and generate information indicative of that content. In another embodiment the recognition module may determine a presence of human readable content recognize the handwriting movements as forming the human readable content as a script character and generate information indicative of that script character.

In an operation of an embodiment a reader may wish to annotate the document with a comment or sketch. The reader holds the handheld writing device in their hand in a manner similar to a conventional pen or pencil and begins handwriting an annotation using the writing element proximate to a content portion . The handheld writing device captures a handwriting movement or hand driven movement of the writing element imparted by the user s hand to the writing device and through the writing detector module generates information indicative of the handwriting movement. The handheld writing device captures a context of the handwriting movement through the context detector module by capturing at least one image of the content portion of the document proximate to the handwriting movement. The context may be captured before the handwriting movement during the handwriting movement and or after the handwriting movement. The context detector module generates information indicative of the content portion of the document proximate to the handwriting movement.

The electronic pen also includes a writing detector module operable to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element. In an embodiment a hand driven movement includes a hand generated movement. In an alternative embodiment the writing detector module includes operability to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element in contact with the surface of a document . In another alternative embodiment the writing detector module includes operability to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element in contact with the surface of a paper document. In a further embodiment the writing detector module includes operability to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element in contact with a surface displaying an electronic document. The writing detector module may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or a combination thereof. An embodiment of the writing detector module may be implemented using reflected light optical image sonar ultrasound and or accelerometer detection of the handwriting movement. In an embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the writing detector module of .

The electronic pen further includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. In an alternative embodiment the context detector module may include operability to generate information indicative of a content portion of a page of multiage document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. In another alternative embodiment the context detector module may include operability to generate information indicative of a hand generated writing movement of the writing element. The context detector module may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or any combination thereof. In an embodiment the context detector module may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the writing detector module of .

In an alternative embodiment the electronic pen may include at least one additional module. Additional modules may include a communications module and a storage module . In an embodiment the communications module includes operability to transmit at least one of the signal indicative of a hand driven movement of a writing element and the signal indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. The term signal means at least one current signal voltage signal or signal. In another embodiment the communications module includes operability to transmit in real time at least one of the information indicative of a hand driven movement of a writing element and the information indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. In a further embodiment the communications module includes operability to transmit at least one of processed information corresponding to the information indicative of a handwriting movement of a writing element and processed information corresponding to the information indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the writing movement of the writing element.

The communications module may transmit a signal. In an optional embodiment the communications module both receives and transmits signals transceiver . For example and without limitation signal includes a current signal voltage signal magnetic signal or optical signal in a format capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. The communications module may include wireless wired infrared optical and or other communications techniques. In an embodiment the communications module may include operability for communication with a computing device such as the thin computing device of and or the computing device of . The communications module may include an antenna for wireless communication a connection for wired connection and or an optical port for optical communication.

The digital storage module may include any suitable digital storage medium. For example a digital storage medium may include a computer storage medium. The digital storage module includes operability to save at least one of the information indicative of a hand driven movement of a writing element and the information indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. Information may be saved in any form or format such as a raw data form or a processed data form. In conjunction with the communications module information may be saved as generated and then be available for uploading at a later time. For example information may be stored batched and subsequently transmitted. In another example information may be stored and subsequently transmitted after the electronic pen is docked.

In operation of an embodiment the electronic pen acquires a handwritten annotation and a context of the handwritten annotation in a manner at least substantially similar to the handheld writing device of . In addition the electronic pen may transmit signals indicative of the handwritten annotation and the context of the annotation using the communication module . One or both of the signals may be transmitted in real time as a reader writes an annotation. In an alternative embodiment one or both of the signals may be processed by a component of the electronic pen prior to transmission. In another alternative embodiment the electronic pen may save one or both of the signals in the digital storage medium . The saved signal may be transmitted at a later time.

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a pen configured to mark relative to an existing character such as the word of a document based at least in part on a marking position relative to the existing character of the document wherein the mark and an indicator of the marking position are saved within the pen.

In a further embodiment a recognizable aspect may include a textual content portion. For example a textual content portion may include words printed or displayed on a surface such as a page of a book and or words printed on a cover or a spine of a book. In a further embodiment a recognizable aspect may include a human language content for example text printed in roman alphabet characters math symbols and or script characters such as Asian language characters. In another embodiment a recognizable aspect may include a human readable content and or graphical content. In an embodiment a recognizable aspect may include a graphical content having a meaning or a significance to a human such as a picture a drawing a figure a photograph an illustration a diagram a doodle a decoration a sketch and or a portrait. In another embodiment a recognizable aspect may be arbitrary and recognizable by an individual human reader and not recognizable by another individual human reader. In a further embodiment a recognizable aspect may include any content primarily useful to a human reader. For example a recognizable aspect may include a textual and or graphical label on a retail article such as clothing a retail package or a carton. A recognizable aspect may include an address written on a shipping label or an address written on a side of a building. A recognizable aspect may include dynamically displayed matter such as an alignment of an indicator needle with a speed value on a vehicle speedometer or a temperature reading on a thermometer. In another embodiment a recognizable aspect may include an incidental element not primarily employed by a human reader but that aids in distinguishing the item. In an embodiment a recognizable aspect may include any aspect recognizable by a human a computing device a recognition program running on a computing device a computer implement method and or a machine. In another embodiment a recognizable aspect may include a characteristic form and or shape such a pair of skates a car and or a dress. In an embodiment an aspect may be recognizable locally in response to information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item. In another embodiment an aspect may be recognizable in response to information provided by a remote third party responsive at least in part to information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item.

The exemplary handheld system includes a writing element operable to form a user expression. The user expression is illustrated as a handwritten user expression Check the Internet for best ski prices . In an embodiment the writing element may include an active writing element such as an ink cartridge operable to discharge a marking fluid onto a surface of a document. The active writing element may include a replaceable ink cartridge. The active writing element may include a disappearing ink. The active writing element may include a pencil lead. In a further embodiment the writing element may include a non marking element such as non marking stylus. In an alternative embodiment the system may include a microphone operable to capture an audible user expression such as a sound word and or sentence.

The handheld system includes an annotating device operable to generate information indicative of a user expression associated with a recognizable aspect of the item . In an embodiment where the user expression includes the handwritten user expression visually or spatially associated with the recognizable trademark content Head Ski and or the text content i Slalom on the top surface the annotating device includes operability to generate information indicative of the handwritten user expression formed by the writing element . Where the exemplary item includes a retail item in a store such as the ski the writing element may include a non marking writing element. Alternatively when the item includes a retail item in a store a user may adhere a Post It type notepaper proximate to a recognizable aspect handwrite on the Post It so as not to damage or mar the item capture the handwritten expression and then remove the Post It. In an embodiment where the user expression includes an audible user expression such as a spoken sentence Check the Internet for best ski prices the annotating device may include operability to generate information indicative of the spoken sentence received by the microphone .

The annotating device may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or a combination thereof. The annotating device may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the writing detector module of . In an embodiment the annotating device may include operability to generate information indicative of a user verbal expression not shown associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. The annotating device may include operability to generate information indicative of the handwritten user expression Check the Internet for best ski prices associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. The annotating device may include operability to generate information indicative of a user hand drawn expression associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. The annotating device may include operability to generate information indicative of a user gesture associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. The annotating device may include operability to generate information indicative of a user gesture formed at least in part by a user limb. The annotating device may include operability to generate information indicative of a user gesture formed with a user held stylus.

Continuing with the handheld system includes an annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item such as the text content i Slalom . The annotation environment capture device may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or any combination thereof. The context detecting device may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the context detector module of . In an embodiment the context detecting device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item in response to data acquired from at least one of several technologies and or data sources. For example data indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may be acquired from data corresponding to the recognizable aspect of the item such as for example time of day time of user expression time period of user expression user entered time time bracket date location presence of another person presence of other items temperature elevation bearing and or global position coordinates. By way of further example data corresponding to the recognizable aspect of an item may be acquired at least in part from a radio frequency identification device RFID . The RFID may be directly associated with the aspect of item associated with the item and or indirectly associated with the item.

In another embodiment the context detecting device may include an image capture device having a lens . The image capture device and or the lens may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the image capture device and or lens of . In an embodiment the context detecting device may include a user activatable switch allowing a user to select when the information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item will be captured. For example a user may aim the lens at a recognizable aspect of an item and capture an image by activating the switch . The switch may include a hardware switch a motion sensitive switch and or a voice activated switch. In a further embodiment the context detecting device may generate raw information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item. In another embodiment the context detecting device may process the raw information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item.

In an embodiment the context detecting device may include operability to generate information indicative of a machine recognizable aspect of an item such as the ski . A machine recognizable aspect of the ski may include a ratio of its length dimension to its width not shown . The context detecting device may include operability to generate information indicative of an optically recognizable aspect of an item. The context detecting device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable human readable content of an item such as the trademark content Head Ski . The context detecting device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable native text of an item such as the text content i Slalom . The context detecting device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable shape aspect of an item such as the ski shape . The context detecting device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable dimensional aspect of an item such as the length dimension of the ski .

In an alternative embodiment of the handheld system an impact and or pressure sensitive switch may include a non marking element version of the writing element . Tapping the non marking element against a surface of an item such as the surface activates the switch . In an embodiment activation of the switch causes the annotating device to record a verbal user expression. In another embodiment activation of the switch causes the context detecting device to acquire an image of a recognizable aspect of the item such as the trademark content Head Ski .

In a further embodiment the context detecting device may include a module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item. The module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item may include an artificial intelligence module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item. The module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item may include a pattern recognition module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item.

In an embodiment the system may include a communications device not shown . The communications device may include operability to communicate at least one of the information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item and the information indicative of a user expression associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. In another embodiment the system may include a storage device not shown . The storage device may include operability to save at least one of the information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item and the information indicative of a user expression associated with the recognizable aspect of the item.

As used in this document an item may include a thing an article an object an occurrence a garment a vehicle a body a person a worldly matter and or a state of an item. An item may include a representation. An item may be very small such as would require aided vision for human viewing or an item may be very large such as a building an aircraft vehicle and or a vessel that a human could walk through. An item may be animate and or inanimate.

A user expression may be associated by the user with an item or an aspect of an item in any manner. In an embodiment the user expression may be physically associated with an aspect of an item by the user. For example a user may associate a user expression and an aspect of an item by writing the user expression on the item and proximate to the aspect. Writing proximate to the text content i Slalom is an example of a user expression associated by the user with an aspect of an item. In another embodiment the user expression may be temporally associated with an item or aspect of an item. For example a user may temporally associate a user expression and an item or aspect of an item by speaking at a time when the item or aspect of the item is spatially proximate to the user. In another embodiment a user may associate a user expression and an item or aspect of an item by a gesture. For example a user may gesturally associate a user expression and an item or aspect of an item by tapping on or pointing to the item or aspect of the item while speaking.

In operation of an embodiment a user may wish to associate a user expression with a recognizable aspect of an item. For example a user signing a printed credit card slip in a restaurant may wish to associate information indicative of their entries and the printed credit card slip. In addition a user may wish to associate information indicative of the meal and the printed credit card slip. In this example the handheld system generally having a shape of a common writing pen may be used. A written user expression associated with the credit card slip may include a user written entry for a tip a user written entry for a total charge and a user written signature entry made with the active writing element having an ink tip.

In an embodiment the written entries are captured by the annotating device . In another embodiment images of the written entries are captured by the image capture device . Further before during and or after the writing the user may verbally express a description the meal and the quality of the meal in association with the printed credit card slip and perhaps a description of a wine consumed during the meal. A user verbal expression is captured by the microphone .

Also before during and or after the writing the image capture device captures an image indicative of at least one recognizable aspect of the printed credit card slip. A recognizable aspect of the credit card slip may include a name of the restaurant a date a time a charge for meals a sever name and or a charge for wine.

The annotating device generates information indicative of the user s verbal expression s and or the user s handwritten expression s . The context detecting device generates information indicative of a recognizable aspect of the credit card slip. The information indicative of a recognizable aspect of the credit card slip and or the information indicative of the user expression may be saved in the handheld system for later communication to a computing device such as a computer device running an expense account program.

The exemplary head mountable system includes a frame which includes an earpiece and an eye cover . In an optional embodiment the eye cover may be omitted. The frame includes a configuration to be worn in a manner similar to a pair of eyeglasses. In an embodiment the eye cover includes a configuration that allows a substantially unobstructed line of sight illustrated as a eye gaze between an eye and an aspect of an item illustrated as the recognizable text . In an embodiment the frame provides a structure that incorporates an annotating device an annotation environment capture device and a microphone and associated sound capture circuitry. In an optional embodiment the frame may also provide a structure that incorporates a user activatable switch . In another embodiment the system may include any configuration allowing it to be worn on a head.

The annotation environment capture device includes operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item. In an embodiment annotation environment capture device includes a tracking module operable to track the eye gaze directed proximate to a recognizable aspect of the item. In another embodiment the annotation environment capture device includes an image capture module operable to acquire an image of a recognizable aspect of the item. In a further embodiment the annotation environment capture device includes an image capture module and a lens operable to acquire an image of a recognizable aspect of the item in response to a signal indicative of a received user command. The user command may include a verbal command a gestural command and or activation of a switch such as the switch . The capture module and the lens direct a lens track on a recognizable aspect of an item.

The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include a module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item. The module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item may include an artificial intelligence module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item. The module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item may include a pattern recognition module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item.

The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include a tracking module operable to track an eye gaze directed proximate to the recognizable aspect of the item. The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include a receiver circuit operable to receive a signal containing data indicative of a recognizable aspect of the item. The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include an image capture module operable to acquire an image of a recognizable aspect of the item. The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include an image capture module operable to acquire an image of a recognizable aspect of the item in response to a signal indicative of a received user command.

The annotation environment capture device may include operability to generate information indicative of a machine recognizable aspect of an item. In an embodiment a machine recognizable aspect of an item may include the author name the cover title the page number the binding title the electronically readable product code and or the text content . The annotation environment capture device may include operability to generate information indicative of an optically recognizable aspect of an item. In an embodiment an optically recognizable aspect of an item may include the author name the cover title the page number the binding title and or the text content. The annotation environment capture device may include operability to generate information indicative of a human recognizable aspect of an item. In an embodiment a human recognizable aspect of an item may include the author name the cover title the page number the binding title and or the text content. The annotation environment capture device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable native text of an item. In an embodiment a recognizable native text of an item may include the author name the cover title the page number the binding title and or the text content. The annotation environment capture device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable visual aspect of an item. In an embodiment a recognizable aspect of an item may include an optically recognizable author name cover title page number binding title and or text content. The annotation environment capture device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable image aspect of an item. In an embodiment a recognizable image aspect may include a picture a figure a drawing and or a graphic element not shown of the item. The annotation environment capture device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item. In an embodiment a recognizable aspect may include any recognizable aspect of the book. The annotation environment capture device may include operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable human readable content. In an embodiment a recognizable human readable content may include the author name the cover title the page number the binding title and or the text content. The context detecting device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include a context detecting device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable audio aspect of an item. For example the context detecting device may include an operability to generate information indicative of a recognizable excerpt of a music piece such as a song or an excerpt of a speech.

The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include an annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item in response to an input received from the user. For example an input received from a user may include an interaction with a user to select an item to which the user expression is associated from among at least two candidate items in an image. By way of further example an input received from a user may include an interaction with a user to select an aspect of an item to which the user expression is associated from among at least two candidate aspects of an item. The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include an annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item in response to an input responsive to a gesture by the user. For example an input responsive to a user gesture may include a user pointing to an item to which the user expression is associated from among at least two candidate items in an environment.

The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include an annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable shape aspect of an item. The annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item may include an annotation environment capture device operable to generate information indicative of a recognizable dimensional aspect of an item.

In a further embodiment the annotation environment capture device may include a module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item. The module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item may include an artificial intelligence module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item. The module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item may include a pattern recognition module operable to recognize data indicative of the recognizable aspect of an item.

The annotation environment capture device may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or any combination thereof. The annotation environment capture device may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the context detector module of .

Continuing with the annotating device includes operability to generate information indicative of a user expression associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. In an embodiment the annotating device may include operability to generate information indicative of a user verbal expression associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. In an embodiment a user verbal expression may include a verbal sound a word at least two words and or a sentence. In another embodiment a user verbal expression may include any vocal expression a user wishes to associate with the recognizable aspect of the item. In an embodiment the annotating device includes operability to generate information indicative of a preformed user expression associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. In a further embodiment a preformed user verbal expression may include at least one word representative of at least two words. For example a verbalized word high may represent a verbal expression of this aspect is of high interest to me. 

The annotating device may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or any combination thereof. The annotating device may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the context detector module of .

In operation of an embodiment a user may don the exemplary head mountable system in a manner similar to eyeglasses. The person may direct their eye gaze through the eye cover and at one or more recognizable aspects of an item such as for example the text content . Alternatively the user s gaze may be directed toward any other recognizable aspect of the book described above for example the title . The tracking module tracks the gaze of the user s eye and aligns the lens track of the lens of the image capture module with the recognizable text content. An image of the text content may be captured. The capture may be automatic such as in response to a predetermined time that the gaze is directed toward the recognizable text context and or such as in response to the user making a verbal expression associated with the recognizable text context. Alternatively the capture may be in response the user activating the switch through a touch or verbal command. The context detector generates information indicative of the recognizable text context responsive to the captured image.

Continuing with the exemplary operation the user may utter a verbal expression for connection or association with the recognizable aspect of the book which in this example includes the recognizable text aspect . The verbal expression may be any verbal expression. For example a verbal expression may include This is really interesting stuff or This statement contradicts a statement at page 12. The verbal expression is captured by the microphone . The annotating device generates information indicative of the user expression in response to the captured verbal expression.

In an alternative embodiment the exemplary human wearable system may comprise two separate human wearable elements. For example the annotation environment capture device may be carried in a first element wearable on a person s head and the annotation device carried in a second element wearable around the person s neck. In a further embodiment the annotating device may include an annotating device having a configuration selected from a group consisting of a handheld device a wearable device and a head mountable device. The annotation environment capture device includes an annotation environment capture device having a configuration other than the selected configuration of the annotating device. In another embodiment the annotation environment capture device may include an annotation environment capture device having a configuration selected from a group consisting of a handheld device a wearable device and a head mountable device. The annotating device includes an annotating device having a configuration other than the selected configuration of the annotation environment capture device.

The book includes microphone and associated sound capture circuitry an annotating device and an antenna coupled with a communications device not shown . The annotating device includes operability to generate information indicative of a user expression associated with a recognizable aspect of the item illustrated as the book . The annotating device is at least substantially similar to the annotating device of . The microphone and associated sound capture circuitry is at least substantially similar to the microphone and associated sound capture circuitry of . At least one of the communications devices may be configured as a receiver circuit a transmission circuit and or a transceiver circuit.

In operation of an embodiment a user may don and use the exemplary head mountable system to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item in a manner at least substantially similar to the system of . Also as described in conjunction with the user utters a verbal expression for connection or association with the recognizable aspect of the book which in this example includes the recognizable text aspect . In the embodiment illustrated in the verbal expression is captured by the microphone . The annotating device generates information indicative of the user expression in response to the captured verbal expression. In one embodiment one of the book and the head mountable system may transmit the respective information generated by their device to the other. In another embodiment the book and the system may transmit the respective information generated by their devices to a third device.

The system includes a tracking module carried in the frame and operable to track a user finger and or a user fingertip proximate to a recognizable aspect of the item such as the recognizable text content printed on and or native to the page surface . In an embodiment the tracking module may include operability to track a gesture formed by the user finger and or the user fingertip.

In an alternative embodiment the tracking module includes operability to track a stylus. For example a tracked stylus may include a hand holdable stylus not shown proximate to a recognizable aspect of the item.

In operation a user may place their fingertip and or their finger on the surface of the page and proximate to the recognizable text content . The tracking module tracks the finger and or fingertip and upon occurrence of a predetermined condition acquires data indicative of the recognizable text content . The predetermined condition may include a gesture with the finger and or fingertip proximate to the recognizable text content. For example in an embodiment the predetermined condition may include tapping the fingertip three times on the page surface proximate to the recognizable text content. In another embodiment the predetermined condition may include the user activating the switch . In a further embodiment the predetermined condition may include the user speaking a voice command received at the microphone . In an embodiment the predetermined condition may include the fingertip remaining stationary and proximate to the recognizable text content for a predetermined time. The context detector generates information indicative of a recognizable aspect of the text content in response to the acquired data. Alternatively the fingertip may be placed proximate to another recognizable aspect of the book . For example another recognizable aspect of the book may include the cover title .

The user may create an expression associated with the recognizable aspect of the book . In an embodiment the user may create a verbal expression for association with the recognizable aspect of the item. The verbal expression may be received by the microphone . In another embodiment the user may create the expression by a user gesture associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. The user gesture may be formed at least a part by a user limb associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. The user gesture may be captured by the image capture module .

In another embodiment the annotation environment capture device may remain incorporated in the system and a microphone and an annotating device may be incorporated into a structure of the book . For example the microphone and annotating device may be incorporated as illustrated in conjunction with the book of .

The exemplary head mountable system includes the frame as described in conjunction with . The frame includes a handwriting tracking module operable to acquire data indicative of the handwritten annotation . In an embodiment the handwriting tracking module includes operability to acquire data indicative of the handwritten annotation in response to detected movements by the pen writing tip . In another embodiment the handwriting tracking module includes operability acquire data indicative of the handwritten annotation in response to images of the pen writing tip and or the handwritten characters. The images may be captured by the capture module .

In operation of an embodiment a user may don and use the exemplary head mountable system and allow the system to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item in a manner at least substantially similar to the system of . In addition the user may grasp the pen in their hand and hand generate a user expression such as the annotation using the pen tip and proximate to a recognizable aspect such as the recognizable text content . Data indicative of the hand generated annotation is acquired by the handwriting tracking module and the annotating device generates information indicative of the user expression associated with the recognizable text content .

In an alternative embodiment not illustrated the handwriting instrument may include an annotating device operable to generate information indicative of a user expression associated with the recognizable aspect of the item. The annotating device may be at least substantially similar to the annotating device described in conjunction with .

The environment also includes a stylus corresponding to a preformed user expression. In an embodiment illustrated in the stylus is illustrated as a stylus set of three individual styluses that include a green stylus a blue stylus and a yellow stylus . In an embodiment the set of styluses are illustrative of hi liter type highlighting markers used by students and others to annotate course materials. A stylus may have any preformed expression. For example in an embodiment the yellow stylus may correspond to a preformed user expression of highly interesting material. the red stylus may correspond to a preformed user expression of dumb material. In an embodiment a stylus may transmit a signal indicative of a preselected or preformed annotation. In another embodiment a stylus may include an optically recognizable feature indicative of a preselected or preformed annotation. An optically recognizable feature may include a color a bar code and or a shape.

In operation of an embodiment a user may don and use the exemplary head mountable system and allow the system to generate information indicative of a recognizable aspect of an item in a manner at least substantially similar to the system of . In addition the user may grasp a stylus in their hand such as the yellow stylus and use the stylus to associate a preformed user expression with the recognizable text content of the document. The user expression may be associated in any manner that may be captured by the stylus tracking module . For example in an embodiment the stylus tracking module may be operable to capture a tapping of a tip of the yellow stylus proximate to the recognizable text content as a preformed user expression of highly interesting material. In another embodiment the stylus tracking module may be operable to capture a closed figure drawn around the recognizable text content with the tip of a stylus as a preformed user expression the nature of which is established by the particular stylus selected from the stylus set . The annotating device generates information indicative of the user expression associated with the recognizable text context in response to the captured preformed user expression.

In an embodiment the operational flow may include at least one additional operation such as an operation . At the operation a signal is received indicative of the user expression associated with the recognizable aspect of an item.

As used herein machine distinguishable includes anything that may be distinguished from something else using a machine. A machine may include a computing device implementing a distinguishing program. The distinguishing program may be implemented in any technology such as hardware software and or firmware. In an embodiment machine distinguishing may include recognizing a tag and or an identifier. In another embodiment machine distinguishing may include selecting a tag or identifier of a set based upon a probability that the tag or identifier is not any other tag or identifier of the set.

The environment also includes an exemplary handheld marking device in an embodiment illustrated as pen having some or all of the elements of any one or all of the exemplary handheld marking device of the exemplary electronic pen of the exemplary apparatus of the exemplary apparatus of and or the exemplary handheld system of . In another embodiment the exemplary handheld marking device may include the pen having a writing tip and the head mountable system of . The exemplary handheld marking device includes a writing detector module operable to generate a signal indicative of a hand formed mark by a writing element on a surface and a tag detector module operable to generate a signal indicative of a machine distinguishable tag associated with the hand formed mark. In an embodiment the writing detector module is illustrated as the writing detector module of the exemplary handheld writing device . The tag detector module is further illustrated as the context detector module .

In an alternative embodiment not shown the environment may include a device that generates movement tracking data corresponding to movements of the handheld marking device and or the article of manufacture. For example Polhemus of Colchester Vt. manufactures and markets several electromagnetic tracking apparatus that tracks objects in a space. Movement tracking data may be used in generating a content signal indicative of a hand formed mark on a surface and or generating a label signal indicative of a machine distinguishable tag associated with the hand formed mark.

In an embodiment the surface of document is initially blank. In use and as illustrated in a user moves the writing element of the handheld writing device to form at least one instance of a hand formed mark on the surface . illustrates instances of hand formed marks each respectively formed on a single line. The user also hand forms a machine distinguishable tag on the surface and respectively associates the machine distinguishable tag with at least one hand formed mark. The machine distinguishable tag is selected from the at least two machine distinguishable tags displayed in a column. For example illustrates a hand formed machine distinguishable tag proximally associated with a hand formed mark illustrated as a textual entry Buy welcome home card . The exemplary handheld marking device captures the hand formed mark and generates a content signal indicative of the hand formed mark using the writing detector module . The exemplary handheld marking device also captures the hand formed machine distinguishable tag using the writing detector module and or the context detector module and generates a label signal indicative of the hand formed machine distinguishable tag.

In an embodiment the writing surface portion is initially blank. In use and as illustrated in a user moves the handheld marking device to form at least one hand formed mark on the surface of the handwriting portion. The user also associates a machine distinguishable tag with the at least one hand formed mark. In an embodiment illustrated in a user associates a machine distinguishable tag with at least one hand formed mark by capturing the machine distinguishable tag from the at least two machine distinguishable tags of the tag portion . In an embodiment the machine distinguishable tag may be captured from the tag portion as an image using the image capture device of the context detector module . A user may associate the machine distinguishable tag of the at least two machine distinguishable tags with the hand formed mark Buy welcome home card by capturing an image represented as the captured image of the machine distinguishable tag with the context detector module . The association may include a temporal association between forming the hand formed mark and capturing the machine distinguishable tag . In a further embodiment the association may include a gesture indicating an association between the hand formed mark and capturing the machine distinguishable tag . For example a gesture may include tapping a portion of the handheld marking device on the surface and or tapping a fingertip on any surface. In another embodiment a scanner not shown embodied in the handheld marking device may be used to discern the machine distinguishable tag for association with the hand formed mark .

The writing portion that accepts at least one hand formed mark may include a writing surface portion that accepts at least one hand formed mark. In an embodiment the writing surface portion that accepts at least one hand formed mark may include a paper writing surface portion that accepts at least one hand formed mark. For example in an embodiment the article of manufacture may include a preprinted sheet of paper including the writing surface portion. In another embodiment the article of manufacture may include a tablet having at least two preprinted sheets of paper each sheet respectively including the writing surface portion. In another embodiment the writing portion that accepts at least one hand formed mark may include an electronic display surface portion that accepts at least one hand formed mark. For example the electronic display surface may include an electronically driven display that accepts handwriting such as a display screen of a tablet PC. The writing portion that accepts at least one hand formed mark may include a writing portion that accepts at least one mark formed by a marking element of a handwriting device. The marking element may include a marking element that leaves a visible mark or a writing element that does not leave a visible mark. For example the writing portion that accepts at least one hand formed mark may include a writing portion that accepts at least one mark formed by an ink disbursed from a pen.

The tag portion that displays at least two machine distinguishable tags may include a tag portion displaying at least two machine distinguishable tags each machine distinguishable tag of the at least two machine distinguishable tags being unique keyed to a data recipient and associatable with the at least one hand formed mark. illustrates the at least two machine distinguishable tags as including the machine distinguishable tag and the machine distinguishable tag which are respectively unique. infra illustrates a tag distribution table that respectively keys the at least two machine distinguishable tags to data recipients. For example illustrates the tag distribution table keying the machine distinguishable tag to the urgent tasks list which corresponds to urgent task list file and keying the machine distinguishable tag to the tasks today list which corresponds to the tasks today list file . In an embodiment the at least two machine distinguishable tags may be user associated with a hand formed mark by a user drawing or hand reproducing a tag proximate to the hand formed mark. In another embodiment the at least two machine distinguishable tags may be user associated with a hand formed mark by a user scanning a tag proximate in time to the user writing the hand formed mark. In a further embodiment each machine distinguishable tag of the at least two machine distinguishable tags may be predefined. illustrates an embodiment where the tag portion includes a unique predefinition for each machine distinguishable tag collectively illustrated as the column of unique predefined descriptors . For example the machine distinguishable tag is predefined by printing proximate thereto a characterization urgent tasks . In an alternative embodiment a user may define at least one of the at least two machine distinguishable tags . The tag portion displaying at least two machine distinguishable tags may include a tag portion displaying at least two machine distinguishable tags each machine distinguishable tag of the at least two machine distinguishable tags being unique keyed to a data recipient and configured for a user gestural association with the at least one hand formed mark. For example the machine distinguishable tag may be formed by a user gesture spatially proximate to but not on the surface using a stylus of a handwriting device such as the element of the exemplary handheld writing device of .

In operation a user creates a hand formed mark on the writing portion . The user associates a machine distinguishable tag of the at least two machine distinguishable tags with the hand formed mark. In an embodiment both may be accomplished in a manner at least similar to that described in conjunction with .

The system also includes a computer program product also referred to herein in an alternative as a handwriting distribution program . The computer program product includes program instructions operable to perform a process in a computer system and a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing the program instructions. The process includes receiving a signal indicative of a handwritten word on the writing portion of a surface and receiving a signal indicative of the hand formed machine distinguishable tag keyed to a data recipient and associated with the handwritten word. The process also includes distributing a representation of the handwritten word to the data recipient in response to the hand formed machine distinguishable tag. The receiving a signal indicative of the hand formed machine distinguishable tag keyed to a data recipient and associated with the handwritten word may include receiving a signal indicative of the hand formed machine distinguishable tag keyed to a data recipient and proximally associated with the handwritten word.

The computer readable medium may include a computer storage medium which may be carried by a computer readable carrier not shown . In an alternative embodiment the computer readable medium may include a communications medium . The computer program product may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

In an embodiment the system may be used in a manner at least similar to the environment and or the environment described in conjunction with . A user may employ a handheld marking device not shown to make a handwritten mark on the writing portion of the surface . The handheld marking device may include a marking device described in conjunction with . For example and similar to that illustrated in conjunction with a user may move the writing element of the handheld writing device to form at least one instance of a hand formed mark not shown on the writing portion of the surface . The user may also hand form a machine distinguishable tag selected from the at least two machine distinguishable tags on the surface and in an association with at least one hand formed mark. The exemplary handheld marking device captures the hand formed mark and generates a content signal indicative of the hand formed mark using the writing detector module . The exemplary handheld marking device also captures the hand formed machine distinguishable tag using the writing detector module and or the context detector module and generates a label signal indicative of the hand formed machine distinguishable tag.

The process of the program instructions of the handwriting distribution program described in conjunction with receives a signal indicative of the handwriting such as a handwritten word on the writing portion of the surface . The process also receives a signal indicative of the hand formed machine distinguishable tag keyed to a data recipient and associated with the handwriting. The process further distributes a representation of the handwritten word to a data recipient such as a subfile of the item list files and or the data recipient in response to the hand formed machine distinguishable tag.

In an embodiment each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers may further include a user understandable identifier corresponding to the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers. For example the user understandable identifier corresponding to the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers may include a user visually recognizable and understandable identifier corresponding to the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers. An alternative embodiment may include a graphic or pictograph such as a shopping cart icon corresponding to the machine differentiatable identifier instead of a word descriptor grocery list . In a further embodiment the user understandable identifier corresponding to the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers may include a user touch recognizable and understandable identifier corresponding to the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers. In an implementation a user touch recognizable and understandable identifier may include an identifier distinguishable by touch such as Braille. In another embodiment the user understandable identifier may include at least one of a user understandable color a pattern a shade a tone a letter a word a phrase a number an alphanumeric a character an icon a geometric shape a figure a graphic a glyph a repeated pattern a random pattern an image a region and or a legend. In another embodiment an instance of a machine differentiatable identifier and a user understandable identifier may be at least substantially similar. For example a single instance of the shopping cart icon may serve as both the machine differentiatable identifier and a user understandable identifier .

The machine differentiatable identifier keyed to a data recipient may further include at least one of a color a pattern a shade a tone a letter a word a phrase a number an alphanumeric a character an icon a geometric shape a figure a graphic a glyph a repeated pattern a random pattern an image a region and or a legend keyed to a data recipient. The machine differentiatable identifier keyed to a data recipient may include a machine differentiatable identifier recognizable by a pattern recognition method and keyed to a data recipient. The machine differentiatable identifiers keyed to a data recipient may include a machine differentiatable identifier corresponding to a data recipient. The machine differentiatable identifier keyed to a data recipient may include a machine differentiatable identifier uniquely identifying a data recipient. The machine differentiatable identifier keyed to a data recipient may include a machine differentiatable identifier keyed to at least one of a file a record a database and or a storage medium.

In an embodiment the each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface may include each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient formable on a surface by a handheld writing implement and associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface. In a further embodiment the each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface may include each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and spatially associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface. The each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface may include each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and temporally associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface. The each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface may include each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient user scannable and user associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface. For example each machine differentiatable identifier may be scannable using an optical character recognition device a bar code reader and or a radio frequency identification device.

In an embodiment the each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface may include each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and a user drag and drop associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface. In another embodiment the each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface may include each identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers being respectively keyed to a data recipient and gesturally associatable with a hand formed mark on a surface.

In an embodiment the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers may include a commonly accepted meaning respectively associated with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers by a prospective group of users. For example a prospective group of users may include people expected to use a program released by a software manufacturer. A prospective group may include people targeted for advertising by a manufacturer of a software program. In another embodiment the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers may include a commonly accepted meaning respectively associated with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers by a current group of users. For example a current group of users may include current users of a software program a user group an ad hoc group and or an affiliated group such as persons associated with an employer or governmental agency. In a further embodiment the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers includes commonly accepted meaning respectively associated with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers by a de facto group of users. In an embodiment the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers includes commonly accepted meaning respectively associated with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers by a de jure group of users.

In an embodiment the system may include a surface displaying the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers . In another embodiment the system may include a surface displaying the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers and the commonly accepted meaning respectively associated by a group of users with each machine differentiatable identifier of the at least two machine differentiatable identifiers. The surface may include a paper surface. The surface may include an electronic display surface.

The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions operable to perform a process in a computer system. The process includes receiving a signal indicative of the hand formed mark on a surface and receiving a signal indicative of a tag associated with the hand formed mark the tag being a tag selected from the at least two unique tags. The process also includes distributing a representation of the hand formed mark to a data recipient in response to the tag.

The computer readable signal bearing medium may include a computer storage medium which may be carried by a computer readable carrier not shown . The computer readable medium may include a communications medium . In an alternative embodiment the computer program product may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

The writing surface having at least two regions that accept handwriting may include a writing surface having at least two delineated regions that accept handwriting. In an embodiment the at least two delineated regions may include visually defined regions. A region may be visually delineated by a border around an outer periphery of the region for example such as a border around a periphery of the region . The writing surface having at least two regions that accept handwriting may include a writing surface having at least two visually defined regions that accept handwriting. The at least two visually defined regions may be defined in any manner. For example regions may be visually defined by unique colors textures and or patterns. In another embodiment the writing surface having at least two regions that accept handwriting may include a writing surface having at least two coordinately defined handwriting regions of an electronic display surface that accept handwriting. For example a lower left corner of the region may be defined by coordinates x y not shown and the upper right corner may be defined by coordinates x y not shown . The writing surface may include a paper writing surface. The writing surface having at least two regions that accept handwriting may include a paper writing surface having at least two regions that accept handwriting. The writing surface having at least two regions that accept handwriting may include an electronically driven writing surface having at least two regions that accept handwriting. The writing surface having at least two regions that accept handwriting may include a writing surface having two regions that accept a hand formed color pattern shade letter word phrase number alphanumeric character icon geometric shape figure graphic glyph repeated pattern random pattern image region and or legend.

The unique machine distinguishable identifier such as the machine distinguishable identifier may include a unique identifier recognizable by a pattern recognition method. The unique machine distinguishable identifier keyed to a data receptor may include a unique machine distinguishable identifier corresponding to a data recipient. The unique machine distinguishable identifier keyed to a data receptor may include a unique machine distinguishable identifier keyed to at least one of a file a record a database and or a storage medium. The unique machine distinguishable identifier may include at least one of a machine distinguishable color a pattern a shade a tone a letter a word a phrase a number an alphanumeric a character an icon a tag a geometric shape a figure a graphic a glyph a repeated pattern a random pattern an image a region and or a legend.

In another embodiment the article of manufacture may include a document title . In an embodiment the document title may include any descriptive suggestive and or distinctive name. The document title may include at least one of a machine distinguishable color a pattern a shade a tone a letter a word a phrase a number an alphanumeric a character an icon a tag a geometric shape a figure a graphic a glyph a repeated pattern a random pattern an image a region and or a legend.

In an alternative embodiment the article of manufacture includes a writing surface having at least one preformed region illustrated as the region . The at least one preformed region is configured to accept a handwritten information and includes a unique user understandable identifier illustrated as the user understandable word phrase identifiers People attending and a unique machine distinguishable identifier keyed to a data receptor illustrated as the machine distinguishable identifier .

In an alternative embodiment the demarcation operation may include at least one additional operations. An additional operation may include an operation and an operation . The operation delineates at least one handwriting acceptance region of a paper writing surface. The operation delineates at least one handwriting acceptance region of an electronic display writing surface.

The display surface that includes a machine distinguishable form identifier keyed to an electronic version of a form and at least two fields may include a paper display surface that includes a machine distinguishable form identifier keyed to an electronic version of a form and at least two fields. The display surface that includes a machine distinguishable form identifier keyed to an electronic version of a form and at least two fields may include an electronically driven display surface that includes a machine distinguishable form identifier keyed to an electronic version of a form and at least two fields. The unique user understandable field identifier such as the unique user understandable field identifier may include a unique user understandable field name descriptive of an anticipated user entry in the content area. The unique user understandable field identifier may include at least one of a user understandable color a pattern a shade a tone a letter a word a phrase a number an alphanumeric a character an icon a geometric shape a figure a graphic a glyph a repeated pattern a random pattern an image a region and or a legend.

The content area such as the content area may include a content area described by a coordinate system. In an embodiment a coordinate system may include numbers that describe a position of the content area with reference to a set of axes. The content area may include a content area having a visible border. The content area may include a content area having a non invisible border.

The display surface that includes a machine distinguishable form identifier keyed to an electronic version of a form and at least two fields may include a display surface that includes a user understandable form name such as a user understandable name Form 1040 ES a machine distinguishable form identifier keyed to an electronic version of a form and at least two fields. The user understandable form name such as may include at least one of a user understandable color a pattern a shade a tone a letter a word a phrase a number an alphanumeric a character an icon a geometric shape a figure a graphic a glyph a repeated pattern a random pattern an image a region and or a legend.

The computer readable signal bearing medium may include a computer storage medium which may be carried by a computer readable carrier not shown . The computer readable signal bearing medium may include a communications medium . In an alternative embodiment the computer program product may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

In an alternative embodiment not shown the environment may include a device that generates movement tracking data corresponding to movements of the handheld marking device and or the article of manufacture. For example Polhemus of Colchester Vt. manufactures and markets several electromagnetic tracking apparatus that tracks objects in a space. Movement tracking data may be used in generating a content signal indicative of a hand formed mark on a surface and or generating a label signal indicative of a machine distinguishable tag associated with the hand formed mark.

The income tax form Form 1040 ES includes the first field the second field the third field the fourth field and the fifth field . The fields respectively include the machine distinguishable field identifier the machine distinguishable identifier the machine distinguishable identifier the machine distinguishable identifier and the machine distinguishable identifier . Each machine distinguishable field identifier is keyed to a corresponding field in an electronic version of the form Form 1040 ES. Further the fields respectively include the content area the content area the content area the content area and the content area . as described in conjunction with . Additionally the fields include a user understandable field identifier First Name a user understandable field identifier Last Name a user understandable field identifier Home address a user understandable field identifier City and State and a user understandable field identifier New address . It is anticipatable that a user will handwrite information on a content area of the display surface corresponding to the user understandable field identifier associated with content area when completing the income tax form. For example as illustrated in a user has entered their last name Achilles in the content area . of the field in response to the user understandable field identifier Last Name .

In an embodiment and as illustrated in a user moves the writing element of the handheld writing device to form at least one instance of a hand formed entry on a content area of the display surface . illustrates instances of hand formed entries on the content areas and .. The exemplary handheld marking device captures an instance of a hand formed entry in a content area and generates a mark signal indicative of the hand formed entry using the writing detector module . The exemplary handheld marking device also captures the machine distinguishable field identifier for a written to content area using the writing detector module and or the context detector module and generates an element signal indicative of the machine distinguishable field identifier. The exemplary handheld marking device also captures the machine distinguishable form identifier using the context detector module and generates a document signal indicative of the machine distinguishable form identifier. In an alternative embodiment where the display surface includes an electronically display surface driven by a computing device the form may be known the computing device and the exemplary handheld marking device only captures and generates information related to the hand formed entry and the machine distinguishable field identifier.

A computer program product operating on a computing device such as the computer program product described in conjunction with performs a process that includes receiving the document signal indicative of the machine distinguishable form identifier keyed to an electronic version of a form. The process also includes receiving an element signal indicative of the unique machine distinguishable field identifier of a written to field. The process includes receiving a mark signal indicative of a hand formed entry in the content area of the field of the form. Further the process distributes a representation of the hand formed entry to a data recipient such as a file associated with the electronic version of a form. The process may create an instance of an electronic version of the Form 1040 ES corresponding to the last name of a user such as Achilles Form 1040 ES. 

In an embodiment and as illustrated in a user moves the writing tip of the pen to form at least one instance of a hand formed entry on a content area of the display surface . The exemplary head mountable system captures an instance of a hand formed entry in a content area such as the handwritten last name of Achilles and generates a mark signal indicative of the hand formed entry using the annotation environment capture device of the head mountable system. The annotation environment capture device also captures the machine distinguishable field identifier for a written to content area such as the identifier and generates an element signal indicative of the machine distinguishable field identifier. The annotation environment capture device also captures the machine distinguishable form identifier and generates a document signal indicative of the machine distinguishable form identifier. In an alternative embodiment where the display surface includes an electronically display surface driven by a computing device the form may be known the computing device and the exemplary head mountable system only captures and generates information related to the hand formed entry and the machine distinguishable field identifier. A computer program product receives the signals and distributes a representation of the hand formed entry to a data recipient such as a file associated with the electronic version of a form in a manner at least similar to the process of the computer program product described in conjunction with .

In operation a user such as an inspector may attach the article of manufacture to an instance of item being inspected or to a packaging associated with the article being inspected. Upon determining an inspection status of the item the inspector may move the writing element of the handheld writing device on either the content area or the content area of the display surface to form at least one instance of a hand formed entry indicating the inspection status. illustrates an instance where the item passed inspection and an inspector named Joe has hand formed their name and inspection passed status in the content area by handwriting OK JOE .

The exemplary handheld marking device captures the hand formed entry OK JOE in the content area and generates a mark signal indicative of the hand formed entry using the writing detector module . The exemplary handheld marking device also captures the machine distinguishable field identifier using the writing detector module and or the context detector module and generates an element signal indicative of the machine distinguishable field identifier. In an alternative embodiment the exemplary handheld marking device may also capture a serial number or other identifying number associated with the instance of the item and generate a signal indicative of the serial number or other identifying number. In another alternative embodiment the exemplary handheld marking device may provide time and or date information related to the hand formed entry OK JOE. The article of manufacture may include an identifier not illustrated such as a form name. In a further embodiment the exemplary handheld marking device may capture the identifier and generate a signal indicative thereof.

In an embodiment a computer program product operating on a computing device may perform a process that electronically associates the inspection passed status represented by the hand formed entry OK JOE in the content area and the serial number or other identifying number associated with the instance of the item. In another embodiment the process saves the electronically associated inspection passed status and the serial number or other identifying number associated with the instance of the item. The computer program product may include a computer program product similar to the computer program product described in conjunction with .

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost versus efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will require optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in standard integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from this subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is solely defined by the appended

