---

title: Systems and methods for electronic signature
abstract: Systems and methods facilitating electronic signatures (E-Signatures) are provided. Multiple E-Signatures can be provided to electronic documents through a simple command, such as a selection of a single graphical element. A user's signatures, initials, or other identifier can be added to the electronic document in the appropriate fields upon receipt of the appropriate command or command set from the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575622&OS=09575622&RS=09575622
owner: dotloop, LLC
number: 09575622
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140402
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 807 471 filed on Apr. 2 2013 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The systems and methods described below relate generally to the field of electronic content and more specifically the systems and methods described below relate to the field of electronically signing electronic content.

Much of the business world has shifted toward online business practices. Included in these practices are the execution of contracts and other documents using electronic signatures sometimes referred to as E Signatures. Generally the use of E Signatures can facilitate efficient transactions supported by an electronic audit trail. In the context of a negotiation for example the employment of E Signatures can replace the need for a party to print and then fax or scan the signed document to the other party. In some transactions such as complex or document intensive transactions a party may need to provide a high number of E Signatures to a single document or across a collection of documents.

The systems and methods disclosed herein are described in detail by way of examples and with reference to the figures. It will be appreciated that modifications to disclosed and described examples arrangements configurations components elements apparatuses methods systems etc. can be made and may be desired for a specific application. In this disclosure any identification of specific techniques arrangements etc. are either related to a specific example presented or are merely a general description of such a technique arrangement etc. Identifications of specific details or examples are not intended to be and should not be construed as mandatory or limiting unless specifically designated as such.

The systems apparatus and methods disclosed herein generally relate to the electronic signing or E Signing of electronic content with selected examples disclosed and described in detail with reference made to . The apparatuses devices systems and methods disclosed and described herein can be used to E Sign a variety of electronic content such as electronic transactional documents. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any other electronic content can be E Signed using the systems and methods described herein. Throughout this document reference to particular types of electronic content is merely for pedagogical purposes and is not intended to limit the disclosure to specific embodiments.

Throughout this disclosure references to components or modules generally refer to items that logically can be grouped together to perform a function or group of related functions. Like reference numerals are generally intended to refer to the same or similar components. Components and modules can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The term software is used expansively to include not only executable code but also data structures data stores and computing instructions in any electronic format firmware and embedded software. The terms information and data are used expansively and includes a wide variety of electronic information including but not limited to machine executable or machine interpretable instructions content such as text video data and audio data among others and various codes or flags. The terms information data and content are sometimes used interchangeably when permitted by context. It should be noted that although for clarity and to aid in understanding some examples discussed below might describe specific features or functions as part of a specific component or module or as occurring at a specific layer of a computing device for example a hardware layer operating system layer or application layer those features or functions can be implemented as part of a different component or module or at a different layer.

The examples discussed below are examples only and are provided to assist in the explanation of the apparatuses devices systems and methods described herein. None of the features or components shown in the drawings or discussed below should be taken as mandatory for any specific implementation of any of these the apparatuses devices systems or methods unless specifically designated as mandatory. For ease of reading and clarity certain components modules or methods can be described solely in connection with a specific figure. Any failure to specifically describe a combination or sub combination of components should not be understood as an indication that any combination or sub combination is not possible. Also for any methods described regardless of whether the method is described in conjunction with a flow diagram it should be understood that unless otherwise specified or required by context any explicit or implicit ordering of steps performed in the execution of a method does not imply that those steps must be performed in the order presented but instead can be performed in a different order or in parallel.

The figures and accompanying detailed description generally describe an application or collection of applications that includes computer executable instructions capable of executing on a computing platform such as a desktop laptop tablet mobile computing device or other suitable hardware. The application can include software modules processes application programming interfaces or APIs drivers helper applications such as plug ins databases such as search and query databases and other types of software modules or computer programming as would be understood in the art.

Reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment some example embodiments one example embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in various embodiments in some embodiments in one embodiment some example embodiments one example embodiment or in an embodiment in places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics can be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

The presently disclosed embodiments are generally directed to systems for electronically signing documents which can be referred to herein as E Signing or an E Signature . In some embodiments the documents are presented in an online environment such as via a web browser executing on a computing device. The documents can be part of an online transaction such as a real estate transaction or any other type of transaction or occurrence in which a user signs and or initials using an E Signing process. The computing device can be any suitable device such as mobile communications devices such as smartphones and the like.

By way of example in the context of real estate transactions facilitated with electronic documents a buyer may have to review a relatively large volume of documents. Each document electronically presented to the buyer may have a number of fields seeking either the buyer s electronic initials or the buyer s electronic signature. Stepping through the entire volume of documents and individually E signing each field can be labor and time intensive. The systems and methods described in more detail below generally relate to giving the buyer or any other type of user the ability to sign and or initial a plurality of fields on a single electronic document or a plurality of electronic documents through relatively simple interactions with the system. For example in certain embodiments a processing system can present an electronic document to the user seeking a large number of electronic signatures from the user. By way of a single interaction with the system such as a single mouse click or other analogous operation the user can populate all of the fields in a document with the user s digital signature and submit the signed document to the processing system. In other embodiments a tiered or staged approach can be used wherein a first interaction populates the fields with electronic signatures and a second interaction submits the signatures to the processing system. In yet other embodiments different variations of signature review and submission can be used. For example for scenarios in which a user is E Signing a plurality of different documents a first interaction can populate the signature fields in each of the documents. The user then reviews each document with the populated E Signatures and separately submits that particular document to the processing system using a particular interaction such as selecting a submit this signed document button on a user interface.

Certain embodiments of the systems and methods described herein can be used during an online transaction that is facilitated by an online or virtual transaction platform or any other suitable type of electronic platform. In the real estate context such transactions can include negotiations and the exchanging terms sheets contracts or other content conveyed to various users in electronic format that request a user s E Signature. Other fields of use include but are not limited to lending insurance finance and any other field or endeavor in which E Signatures are utilized.

Referring now to one example embodiment of the present disclosure can comprise a computer based electronic document sharing system that generally controls the sharing of electronic content. The electronic document sharing system can be a component of or otherwise associated with other computer based systems such as systems for facilitating online transactions social networking systems payment platforms and so forth. In one example embodiment the electronic document sharing system is associated with the interactive real estate contract and negotiation tool described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0100522 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. The electronic document sharing system can be provided using any suitable processor based device or system such as a personal computer laptop server mainframe or a collection e.g. network of multiple computers for example. The electronic document sharing system can include one or more processors and one or more computer memory units . For convenience only one processor and only one memory unit are shown in . The processor can execute software instructions stored on the memory unit . The processor can be implemented as an integrated circuit IC having one or multiple cores. The memory can include volatile and or non volatile memory units. Volatile memory units can include random access memory RAM for example. Non volatile memory units can include read only memory ROM for example as well as mechanical non volatile memory systems such as for example a hard disk drive an optical disk drive etc. The RAM and or ROM memory units can be implemented as discrete memory ICs for example.

The memory unit can store executable software and data for an E signing engine . When the processor of the electronic document sharing system executes the software of the E signing engine the processor can be caused to perform the various operations of the electronic document sharing system such as facilitate the E Signing of electronic documents. Data used by the E signing engine can be from various sources such as a data store which can be an electronic computer database for example. The data stored in the data store can be stored in a non volatile computer memory such as a hard disk drive a read only memory e.g. a ROM IC or other types of non volatile memory. Also the data of the data store can be stored on a remote electronic computer system for example.

The electronic document sharing system can be in communication with user devices A N via an electronic communications network . The communications network can include a number of computer and or data networks including the Internet LANs WANs GPRS networks etc. and can comprise wired and or wireless communication links. The user devices A N that communicate with the electronic document sharing system can be any type of client device suitable for communication over the network such as a personal computer a laptop computer a tablet computer or a netbook computer for example. In some example embodiments a user can communicate with the network via a device that is a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. It can be appreciated that while certain embodiments can be described with users communicating via a smart phone or laptop by way of example the communication can be implemented using other types of user equipment or wireless computing devices such as a mobile telephone personal digital assistant PDA combination mobile telephone PDA handheld device mobile unit subscriber station game device messaging device media player or other suitable mobile communications devices.

The user devices A N can provide a variety of applications for allowing a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks using the electronic document sharing system . Applications can include without limitation a web browser application e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX SAFARI OPERA NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR telephone application e.g. cellular VoIP PTT networking application messaging application e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS BLACKBERRY Messenger contacts application calendar application and so forth. The user device can comprise various software programs such as system programs and applications to provide computing capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. System programs can include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary operating systems can include for example a MICROSOFT OS APPLE OS UNIX OS LINUX OS and others.

In general an application such as a web browsing application or other specialized application can provide a user interface to communicate information between the electronic document sharing system and the users via the user devices A N. The user devices A N can include various components for interacting with the application such as a display for presenting the user interface and a keypad for inputting data and or commands. The user devices A N can include other components for use with one or more applications such as a stylus a touch sensitive screen keys e.g. input keys preset and programmable hot keys buttons e.g. action buttons a multidirectional navigation button preset and programmable shortcut buttons switches a microphone speakers an audio headset a camera and so forth. Through the interface the users can interact with the electronic document sharing system e.g. to share content to review content to perform actions related to the content and so forth .

The applications can include or be implemented as executable computer program instructions stored on computer readable storage media such as volatile or non volatile memory capable of being retrieved and executed by a processor to provide operations for the user devices A N. The memory can also store various databases and or other types of data structures e.g. arrays files tables records for storing data for use by the processor and or other elements of the user devices A N.

As shown in the electronic document sharing system can include several computer servers and databases. For example the electronic document sharing system can include one or more web servers e.g. and application servers e.g. . For convenience only one web server and one application server are shown in although it should be recognized that the invention is not so limited. The servers can comprise processors e.g. CPUs memory units e.g. RAM ROM non volatile storage systems e.g. hard disk drive systems etc.

The web server can provide a graphical web user interface through which users of the system can interact with the electronic document sharing system . The web server can accept requests such as HTTP requests from clients such as web browsers on the user devices A N and serve the clients responses such as HTTP responses along with optional data content such as web pages e.g. HTML documents and linked objects such as images etc. .

The application server can provide a user interface for users who do not communicate with the electronic document sharing system using a web browser. Such users can have special software installed on their user devices A N that allows them to communicate with the application server via the network . Such software can be downloaded for example from the electronic document sharing system or other software application provider over the network to such user devices A N.

Although depicts a limited number of elements for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that the electronic document sharing system can include more or less elements as well as other types of elements in accordance with the described embodiments. Elements of the electronic document sharing system can include physical or logical entities for communicating information implemented as hardware components e.g. computing devices processors logic devices executable computer program instructions e.g. firmware software to be executed by various hardware components or combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints.

The types or roles of Users A N shown in that interact with the electronic document sharing system can vary. The type of user can depend for example on the type of transaction or underlying event that connects the Users A N. By way of example for a real estate transaction the Users A N can include one or more lenders one or more real estate agents one or more buyers and one or more sellers. In accordance with the systems and methods described herein one or more of the Users A N can E Sign a plurality of signature fields which can include initial fields using interactions described in more detail below. In certain embodiments one of the Users A N can interact with electronic documents to flag tag or otherwise identify portions of the document that a user should E Sign.

Once a user has reviewed the electronic document and desires to E sign all the places indicated by the visual indicia the sign all button or suitable type of interaction can be selected to initiate the signing process. In other words by selecting the sign all button the user can effectively place their initials in every initial field and their signature in the signature field . depicts an example pop up display that can be displayed to the user prior to completing the signature process. Generally the pop up display can be used to confirm the user understand various consequences of signing the document or display any other information to the user. In some embodiments the pop up display includes a signature window and an initial window that display an image of the user s signature and initials respectively. These images can be the same images that will be inserted into the electronic document in the locations identified by the initial visual indicia and the signature visual indicia .

A user can select a change font button to select a different lettering style for their name. In certain embodiments the user can select a draw button and then manually draw their signature using a stylus a mouse their finger or other input means. In such cases the drawn signature can be stored by the electronic document sharing system and inserted into the electronic document in the locations identified by the initial visual indicia and the signature visual indicia . When a user selects the cancel button the signature process can be aborted. Finally when the user selects the confirm sign button the images in the signature window and an initial window can be populated into or otherwise associated with the corresponding fields of the electronic document . It is noted that while displays graphical buttons any suitable type of control functionality can be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure such as radio buttons drop down menus pop up menus and so forth.

While describe an embodiment using a single electronic document this disclosure is not so limited. In fact the systems and methods can be used to allow a user to populate a large number of E Signatures across numerous documents without requiring the user to individually place their E Signature in each individual field. depicts an example E Signature flow for a plurality of electronic documents A M. Each electronic document A M comprises visual indicia e.g. A B M and signature visual indicia e.g. A B to indicate where E Signatures of the user is needed. Through interactions with the electronic document sharing system a user can review each electronic document A M if the user desires. Using a signature confirmation menu the user can decide to cancel the operation using button or confirm and sign the electronic documents using button . When the user selects the confirm and sign button the electronic documents A M are populated with the initials e.g. A B C and the signatures e.g. A B of the user. As is to be appreciated the initials and signatures added to the electronic documents A M can comply with various electronic signature state and federal regulation. Details regarding the requirements for E Signatures are known in the art. The electronic documents A M which include the E Signatures can then be used in the workflow facilitated by the electronic document sharing system . In the context of a lending scenario the E Signed documents can be provided to the lending institution for example. In the context of a real estate negotiation the E Signed documents can be provided to the opposing side.

In some embodiments a multi layered E Signature approval process can be used. depicts an example collective E Signature flow for a plurality of electronic documents A M. Each electronic document A M comprises visual indicia e.g. A B M are shown and signature visual indicia e.g. A B to indicate where E Signatures of the user is needed. Through interactions with the electronic document sharing system a user can review each electronic document A M. Using a signature confirmation menu the user can decide to cancel the operation using button or populate the electronic documents using button . When the user selects the populate button the electronic documents A M are populated with the initials e.g. A B C and the signatures e.g. A B of the users. Prior to submitting the E Signed documents for processing the user can review or be required to review the electronic documents. Once the initials and the signatures have been reviewed by the user a menu can provide the user with the option to cancel the submission using button or to submit the E Signed documents using the submit button Once reviewed and submitted the electronic documents A M which include the E Signatures can then be used in the workflow facilitated by the electronic document sharing system .

The above descriptions of various components and methods are intended to illustrate specific examples and describe certain ways of making and using the systems disclosed and described here. These descriptions are neither intended to be nor should be taken as an exhaustive list of the possible ways in which these systems and modules can be made and used. A number of modifications including substitutions of systems and modules between or among examples and variations among combinations can be made. Those modifications and variations should be apparent to those of ordinary skill in this area after having read this document.

