---

title: Phase noise reduction in voltage controlled oscillators
abstract: A voltage controlled oscillator (VCO), a method of designing a voltage controlled oscillator, and a design structure comprising a semiconductor substrate including a voltage controlled oscillator are disclosed. In one embodiment, the VCO comprises an LC tank circuit for generating an oscillator output at an oscillator frequency, and an oscillator core including cross-coupled semiconductor devices to provide feedback to the tank circuit. The VCO further comprises a supply node, a tail node, and a noise by-pass circuit connected to the supply and tail nodes, in parallel with the tank circuit and the oscillator core. The by-pass circuit forms a low-impedance path at a frequency approximately twice the oscillator frequency to at least partially immunize the oscillator core from external noise and to reduce noise contribution from the cross-coupled semiconductor devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330214&OS=09330214&RS=09330214
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09330214
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140110
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. FA8650 09 C 7924 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention generally relates to voltage controlled oscillators and more specifically to reducing noise in such oscillators.

In general a VCO voltage controlled oscillator is an oscillator circuit that outputs an AC signal having a frequency that varies in response to an input control voltage. VCOs are fundamental components that are employed in a broad range of applications including radar and communications systems e.g. wireline or wireless applications for data transfer and recovery processes. By way of example VCOs are utilized for PLL phase locked loop circuits DLL delay locked loop circuits and injection locked oscillators. VCOs are further employed for applications such as frequency translation data modulation clock distribution and clock data recovery.

In the operation of a VCO an undesired random phase component referred to as phase noise is often introduced into the oscillator output. This phase noise which varies over time may be due to the thermal noise present in the components of the oscillator loss in the passive components and to other factors. Oscillator phase noise is a key performance metric in many oscillator applications including many wireless and wireline communications applications radars sensors images data converters and so forth.

Embodiments of the invention provide a voltage controlled oscillator VCO a method of designing a voltage controlled oscillator and a design structure comprising a semiconductor substrate including a voltage controlled oscillator.

In one embodiment the VCO comprises an LC tank circuit for generating an oscillator output signal at an oscillator frequency f and an oscillator core including first and second cross coupled semiconductor devices connected to the tank circuit to provide regenerative feedback to the tank circuit to help maintain the oscillator output stable. The VCO further comprises a supply node connected to the tank circuit and to the oscillator core for connecting the VCO to a voltage source a tail node connected to the tank circuit and to the oscillator core for connecting the VCO to a current source and a noise by pass circuit. The noise by pass circuit is connected to the supply node and to the tail node in parallel with the LC tank circuit and the oscillator core and forms a low impedance path at a frequency approximately twice the oscillator frequency to at least partially immunize the oscillator core from external noise and to reduce noise contribution from the cross coupled semiconductor devices.

In one embodiment of the voltage controlled oscillator the noise by pass circuit comprises a series resonance tuned to resonate at approximately twice the oscillator frequency.

In one embodiment of the voltage controlled oscillator the noise by pass circuit includes a capacitor and an inductor located in series.

In one embodiment of the voltage controlled oscillator the noise by pass circuit includes a capacitor and a transmission line located in series.

In one embodiment the voltage controlled oscillator further comprises a frequency control to apply a variable signal to the noise by pass circuit to adjust the frequency at which the noise by pass circuit resonates.

In one embodiment the frequency control includes a variable voltage source to apply a variable voltage to the by pass circuit to adjust the frequency at which the noise by pass circuit resonates.

In an embodiment the frequency control includes a variable digital signal source to apply a variable digital signed to the by pass circuit to adjust the frequency at which the noise by pass circuit resonates.

In an embodiment the noise by pass circuit includes a variable capacitor and the frequency control applies the variable signal to the variable capacitor to vary a capacitance thereof and thereby to vary the frequency at which the noise by pass circuit resonates.

In an embodiment the noise by pass circuit includes a capacitor and a transmission line and the frequency control applies the variable signal to the transmission line to vary the frequency at which the noise by pass circuit resonates.

In one embodiment the invention provides a method of designing a voltage controlled oscillator comprising an LC tank circuit for generating an oscillator output an oscillator core to provide regenerative feedback to the tank circuit supply and tail nodes and a noise by pass circuit. The method comprises designing the oscillator core to generate the oscillator output at a frequency of f biasing the core and connecting the core to a voltage supply designing the noise by pass circuit at approximately twice the frequency of the oscillator output and introducing the noise by pass circuit into the VCO. The noise by pass circuit is connected to the supply node and to the tail node in parallel with the LC tank circuit and the oscillator core to at least partially immunize the oscillator core from external noise and to reduce noise contribution from the oscillator core. The method further comprises tuning the noise by pass circuit to obtain a specified performance of the VCO.

In one embodiment the noise by pass circuit is designed to include a capacitor and a transmission line in series.

In an embodiment the capacitor and the transmission line in the noise by pass are selected so that the noise by pass circuit resonates at approximately twice the frequency of the oscillator output.

In an embodiment the noise by pass circuit is connected to a variable signal to vary the frequency at which the noise by pass circuit resonates.

In one embodiment the noise by pass circuit is tuned by adjusting the variable signal connected to the noise by pass circuit to adjust the frequency at which the noise by pass circuit resonates to obtain the specified performance.

In one embodiment the invention provides a design structure tangibly embodied in a machine readable medium for design manufacturing or testing a semiconductor device. The design structure comprises a semiconductor substrate including a voltage controlled oscillator VCO . The VCO comprises an LC tank circuit for generating an oscillator output signal at an oscillator frequency f and an oscillator core including first and second cross coupled semiconductor devices connected to the tank circuit to provide regenerative feedback to the tank circuit to help maintain the oscillator output stable. The VCO further comprises a supply node connected to the tank circuit and to the oscillator core for connecting the VCO to a voltage source a tail node connected to the tank circuit and to the oscillator core for connecting the VCO to a current source and a noise by pass circuit. The noise by pass circuit is connected to the supply node and to the tail node in parallel with the LC tank circuit and the oscillator core and forms a low impedance path at a frequency approximately twice the oscillator frequency to at least partially immunize the oscillator core from external noise and to reduce noise contribution from the cross coupled semiconductor devices.

In one embodiment the noise by pass circuit comprises a series resonances tuned to resonate at approximately twice the oscillator frequency.

In an embodiment the noise by pass circuit includes a capacitor and a transmission line located in series.

In an embodiment the VCO further comprises a frequency control to apply the variable signal to the by pass circuit to adjust the frequency at which the noise by pass circuit resonates.

VCO comprises an LC VCO topology based on the parallel resonance of inductor L and capacitor C of tank circuit . The tank circuit oscillates at its resonant or natural frequency f where 1 LC determined by the tank circuit capacitance and inductance. An ideal tank circuit just L and C will oscillate purely sinusoidally at its natural frequency indefinitely. Since nothing is ideal all tank circuits include resistance R . Inductor current lags voltage and capacitor current leads voltage by ninety degrees 90 . Thus because resistor current is in phase with voltage across the resistor tank circuit resistance shifts the phase in the tank circuit dampens the tank circuit oscillation and determines what is known as the tank circuit s Q factor or Q.

Therefore typical state of the art oscillators require regenerative feedback to maintain oscillation. Phase noise is a measure of signal spread and Q and satisfies

To offset inherent parasitic resistance a typical oscillator includes a pair of cross coupled devices e.g. bipolar transistors field effect transistors FETs or logic gates such as inverters connected to an LC tank circuit. The cross coupled devices add negative resistance as the LC oscillates thereby providing regenerative feedback. However the cross coupled devices may also add more resistance and or more capacitance which shifts the resonant frequency . Further circuit component age and ambient conditions e.g. operating voltage and temperature can alter the characteristics of the oscillator to shift the resonant frequency away from nominal. A typical voltage controlled oscillator is a tunable oscillator where a control voltage is adjusted to shift the VCO operating frequency for example to re center the frequency and or compensate for phase shift. For the state of the art voltage controlled oscillator either the LC tank still drives output buffers directly or the LC capacitively drives the output buffers through a tapped capacitance network.

With the design of a transistor is located in series between the oscillator circuit and ground and current source is connected to the VCO via the diode connected transistor . Vdd is connected to one end of the current supply and the second end of the current supply is connected to transistor . Transistor is connected to ground and the gate of transistor is connected to the gate of transistor . Note that the combination of transistors and is only one of many ways to implement current biasing to the VCO i.e. a transistor implementation of the current source in and those skilled in the art will know multiple other implementations. The phase noise reduction techniques which are the subject of this disclosure are applicable regardless of the specific way to implement current biasing at the source of and .

A number of techniques are used to reduce the phase noise in a VCO and illustrate two prior art oscillators where techniques are applied to reduce phase noise.

The arrangement of reduces noise referred to as tail noise from the tail node of the VCO. As one example 

With the design of a capacitor is added in parallel with the current source . This technique reduces tail noise by shorting out that noise. A very large capacitor is needed to short out the noise sufficiently.

With the design of the tail noise and the supply noise by pass the tank and the cross coupled transistors of the VCO. In an embodiment of the invention the capacitance of capacitor is relatively large and as an example C may have a capacitance of 10 nF.

The design of provides better performance than the tail capacitance short of because with the design of the noise from T also by passes tank and cross coupled transistors . In a simulation the circuit of also reduced noise from the cross coupled transistor pair.

In a simulation the circuit of also reduced noise from the cross coupled transistor pair and in some cases the short at 2f of performs slightly better than the circuit of .

In embodiments of the invention the frequency of the noise by pass circuit can be changed. For a voltage controlled oscillator where the frequency of oscillation can be altered using a control voltage another control voltage can change the frequency of the bypass circuit appropriately. The frequency of resonance of the bypass circuit can be changed for example using a variable capacitor varactor or a variable transmission line inductor or both. The tuning of the frequency of resonance of the by pass circuit can also be used to trade off between noise from the gm cell and noise from the tail bias circuit when the VCO is oscillating at a particular frequency. This trade off can be used as a phase noise optimization for manual or digital based calibration of the oscillator.

With the embodiment of capacitor is a variable capacitor. A first voltage control V is shown applied to capacitor and second voltage control V is applied to capacitor . The voltage control Vis used to control the capacitor such that T and the capacitor resonate at approximately 2f with adjustments thereto to improve or optimize the overall performance of the oscillator.

With the arrangement shown in digital control set O is applied to transmission line T. The control is used to set the inductance of the transmission line so that Tand capacitor resonate at approximately 2f with adjustments thereto to improve or optimize the overall performance of the oscillator. With this embodiment as illustrated in capacitor does not need to be a variable capacitor.

The circuit of includes both a variable capacitor and a variable inductance transmission line T. Voltage control V is applied to capacitor and digital control set O is applied to transmission line T. The two controls Vand Omay be used in tandem to adjust the frequency of the by pass circuit to adjust or optimize the performance of the oscillator.

In embodiments of the invention V Vand Omay be linearly related to each other and can be set using an analog or a digital based control.

The by pass technique of embodiments of the invention can be extended to a fully decoupled oscillator as well as to other VCO architectures that utilize a core LC oscillator circuit separated from supply and ground through biasing circuits or interconnects.

For instance shows a fully decoupled LC tank based oscillator topology in accordance with an embodiment of this invention. The LC tank based oscillator topology includes an inductor a capacitor C a capacitor C a capacitor C a capacitor C an active device an active device an LC tank and a current source implemented in this case by an FET device.

The gate or base of active device is connected to a side of capacitor C and a side of LC tank . The gate or base of active device is connected to a side of capacitor C and a side of LC tank . Another side of capacitor C is connected to the drain or collector of active device a side of capacitor C and inductor . Another side of capacitor C is connected to the drain or collector of active device a side of capacitor C and a side of inductor . Another side of capacitor C is connected to another side of capacitor C. Inductor is connected to a voltage V. Sources or emitters of active devices and are connected to each other and to a tail node .

In the example of the active devices and are n channel MOSFETS. However given the teachings provided herein it is to be appreciated that one of ordinary skill in the art can readily implement the topology of with respect to other types of active devices. Moreover the same type of device may be used e.g. a MOSFET but using a p channel version. These and other variations in the circuit elements of topology are readily determined and implemented by one of ordinary skill in the art given the teachings provided herein.

VCO design includes a noise by pass circuit comprised of a variable capacitor and transmission line T. One end of circuit is connected to Vvia RF choke T and a second end of the by pass circuit is connected to transistor . The transmission line T and capacitor are tuned to resonate at twice the frequency oscillator 2f. With this arrangement the tail noise and the supply noise by pass the tank and the cross coupled transistors .

Noise by pass circuit is connected across inductor capacitor and cross coupled transistors and the tail noise and the supply noise by pass inductor capacitor and transistors . In this embodiment noise by pass circuit includes oscillator and transmission line . One end of the by pass circuit is connected to oscillator circuit above current source and a second end of the by pass circuit is connected to the oscillator circuit above inductor . This second end of the by pass circuit is also connected to the reference voltage via capacitor .

With the architecture of the double frequency amplitude is equalized and increased due to the supply tail coupling. A differential doubler with current re use can be designed while reducing VCO noise simultaneously. To do this the by pass is tuned to twice the oscillation frequency for both applications.

In an implementation of an embodiment of the invention from the inductor center tap one transmission line connects to supply and another transmission line connects through a capacitor to the tail node. In an implementation at least one transmission line goes around the inductor at a considerable distance to avoid signal coupling between the t line and the inductor.

In embodiments of the invention the transmission lines are implemented on top of the spiral inductor placed symmetric to the differential inductor The differential signals on the inductor couple to the transmission lines however the transmission lines are placed symmetrically so as to perfectly cancel the ac coupled signals from the inductor to the transmission line. This helps to achieve a low area low loss implementation of the t line capacitor short. This implementation also does not consume any dc power.

Design flow may vary depending on the type of representation being designed. For example a design flow for building an application specific IC ASIC may differ from a design flow for designing a standard component or from a design flow for instantiating the design into a programmable array for example a programmable gate array PGA or a field programmable gate array FPGA offered by Altera Inc. or Xilinx Inc.

Design process preferably employs and incorporates hardware and or software modules for synthesizing translating or otherwise processing a design simulation functional equivalent of the components circuits devices or logic structures described above to generate a netlist which may contain design structures such as design structure . Netlist may comprise for example compiled or otherwise processed data structures representing a list of wires discrete components logic gates control circuits I O devices models etc. that describes the connections to other elements and circuits in an integrated circuit design. Netlist may be synthesized using an iterative process in which netlist is resynthesized one or more times depending on design specifications and parameters for the device. As with other design structure types described herein netlist may be recorded on a machine readable data storage medium or programmed into a programmable gate array. The medium may be a non volatile storage medium such as a magnetic or optical disk drive a programmable gate array a compact flash or other flash memory. Additionally or in the alternative the medium may be a system or cache memory buffer space or electrically or optically conductive devices and materials on which data packets may be transmitted and intermediately stored via the Internet or other networking suitable means.

Design process may include hardware and software modules for processing a variety of input data structure types including netlist . Such data structure types may reside for example within library elements and include a set of commonly used elements circuits and devices including models layouts and symbolic representations for a given manufacturing technology e.g. different technology nodes 32 nm 45 nm 90 nm etc. . The data structure types may further include design specifications characterization data verification data design rules and test data files which may include input test patterns output test results and other testing information. Design process may further include for example standard mechanical design processes such as stress analysis thermal analysis mechanical event simulation process simulation for operations such as casting molding and die press forming etc. One of ordinary skill in the art of mechanical design can appreciate the extent of possible mechanical design tools and applications used in design process without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention. Design process may also include modules for performing standard circuit design processes such as timing analysis verification design rule checking place and route operations etc.

Design process employs and incorporates logic and physical design tools such as HDL compilers and simulation model build tools to process design structure together with some or all of the depicted supporting data structures along with any additional mechanical design or data if applicable to generate a second design structure . Design structure resides on a storage medium or programmable gate array in a data format used for the exchange of data of mechanical devices and structures e.g. information stored in a IGES DXF Parasolid XT JT DRG or any other suitable format for storing or rendering such mechanical design structures . Similar to design structure design structure preferably comprises one or more files data structures or other computer encoded data or instructions that reside on transmission or data storage media and that when processed by an ECAD system generate a logically or otherwise functionally equivalent form of one or more of the embodiments of the invention described above. In one embodiment design structure may comprise a compiled executable HDL simulation model that functionally simulates the devices described above.

Design structure may also employ a data format used for the exchange of layout data of integrated circuits and or symbolic data format e.g. information stored in a GDSII GDS2 GL1 OASIS map files or any other suitable format for storing such design data structures . Design structure may comprise information such as for example symbolic data map files test data files design content files manufacturing data layout parameters wires levels of metal vias shapes data for routing through the manufacturing line and any other data required by a manufacturer or other designer developer to produce a device or structure as described above and shown in . Design structure may then proceed to a stage where for example design structure proceeds to tape out is released to manufacturing is released to a mask house is sent to another design house is sent back to the customer etc.

The circuits as described above are part of the design for an integrated circuit chip. The chip design is created in a graphical computer programming language and stored in a computer storage medium such as a disk tape physical hard drive or virtual hard drive such as in a storage access network . If the designer does not fabricate chips or the photolithographic masks used to fabricate chips the designer transmits the resulting design by physical means e.g. by providing a copy of the storage medium storing the design or electronically e.g. through the Internet to such entities directly or indirectly. The stored design is then converted into the appropriate format e.g. GDSII for the fabrication of photolithographic masks which typically include multiple copies of the chip design in question that are to be formed on a wafer. The photolithographic masks are utilized to define areas of the wafer and or the layers thereon to be etched or otherwise processed.

The method as described above is used in the fabrication of integrated circuit chips. The resulting integrated circuit chips can be distributed by the fabricator in raw wafer form that is as a single wafer that has multiple unpackaged chips as a bare die or in a packaged form. In the latter case the chip is mounted in a single chip package such as a plastic carrier with leads that are affixed to a motherboard or other higher level carrier or in a multichip package such as a ceramic carrier that has either or both surface interconnections or buried interconnections . In any case the chip is then integrated with other chips discrete circuit elements and or other signal processing devices as part of either a an intermediate product such as a motherboard or b an end product. The end product can be any product that includes integrated circuit chips ranging from toys and other low end applications to advanced computer products having a display a keyboard or other input device and a central processor.

While various embodiments are described herein it will be appreciated from the specification that various combinations of elements variations or improvements therein may be made by those skilled in the art and are within the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

