---

title: Enhanced seat selection
abstract: Methods and systems for improving seat selection at a venue are described. The methods and systems help users understand how good a view they will have of a performance or event and/or how enjoyable an experience they will have before they purchase a ticket. A user selects a seat and is able to access relevant traits of people who purchased seats proximate to the selected seat. Relevant traits include physical features such as height, weight, build, etc., and behavior information, such as how noisy or quiet the person is.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600781&OS=09600781&RS=09600781
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09600781
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140221
---
The present invention generally relates to providing a user with information regarding the quality of a seat at an event such as a sports game theater event or concert.

Although personal sales used to be the norm for ticketing that is no longer the case. A large portion of event goers now purchase tickets through ticketing websites. A difficulty with these purchases is the limitation on a user s ability to determine and select the quality and location of individual seats. Some conventional ticketing websites provide seating charts but conventional seating charts still fail to provide important information that may be relevant to decision making.

People want to know as much information as possible about a seat in a venue before they purchase a ticket for that seat. People often complain when they pay a significant amount of money for a ticket and then they have a bad experience because their view of the main viewing area e.g. a field in the case of a baseball or football or a stage at a musical or theatrical performance is poor or does not meet expectations. For example seating charts fail to provide users with a full picture of the quality and location of their seats relative to other sites in the event venue and any obstructions blocking a person s view. Thus there is a need for systems and methods that provide people with more information about a particular seat to avoid these types of situations or at least know about them before they pay a significant amount of money for a ticket.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes techniques for providing a user with more information about a particular seat at a venue. The methods and systems help users understand and predict how good a view they will have of a performance or event at a venue and or how enjoyable an experience they will have before they purchase a ticket. For example a user can be provided with pictures of the view taken by people who previously sat in the seat taking the user s height into consideration. In another example the user can access relevant traits of the people who purchased seats proximate to e.g. around or near the user s selected seat. Relevant traits can include physical features such as height weight build etc. and behavior information such as how noisy the person is.

If the person sitting in front of the user is determined to be much taller than the user the user is informed of this obstruction and can locate and purchase another seat without an obstruction. If the people sitting adjacent to the user are determined to be noisy and the user prefers to be around quieter people the user is able to find a seat surrounded by more peaceful people. Thus the presence of people who may have a negative impact on the user s experience is detected before the user purchases a ticket.

In another embodiment the presence of people who may have a positive impact on the user s experience is detected before the user purchases the ticket. For example a person may be short which can be an advantage for a user sitting behind that person thin which can be an advantage for a user sitting next to that person more reserved such as indicated by an older person which can be an advantage for a user who prefers a quieter surrounding experience more vocal such as indicated by a younger person a known fan of a team playing at the event etc. which can be an advantage for a user who prefers a loud energetic experience etc.

Beginning with an exemplary embodiment of a computing system adapted for implementing one or more processes involving assisting a user at an event is illustrated in block diagram format. As shown computing system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

Computing system can include among various devices servers databases and other elements a user that may comprise or employ one or more user devices such as a mobile computing device a wearable computing device such as a smart watch or smart goggles a PC and or any other computing device having computing and or communications capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. User devices generally may provide one or more user programs such as system programs and application programs to perform various computing and or communications operations. Exemplary system programs may include without limitation an operating system e.g. MICROSOFT OS UNIX OS LINUX OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary application programs may include without limitation a web browser application messaging applications e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS telephone voicemail VoIP video messaging contacts application calendar application electronic document application database application media application e.g. music video television location based services LBS application e.g. GPS mapping directions point of interest locator and so forth. One or more of user programs may display various graphical user interfaces GUIs to present information to and or receive information from one or more of user devices .

User device may include one or more of a motion sensor an image sensor e.g. camera a voice sensor e.g. microphone an optical sensor and any other kind of device suitable to collect information from a user. Motion sensors such as motion detectors accelerometers and or gyroscopes may monitor speed acceleration position rotation and other characteristics of body and appendage motion. The motion sensor captures movement of a user such as a pose position or gesture. Example gestures include for instance an air quote gesture a bowing gesture a curtsey a cheek kiss a finger or hand motion a head bobble or movement a high five a nod a raised fist a salute a swiping or wave motion a thumbs up motion a hand moving in circle or hand waving gesture or a finger pointing gesture. An image sensor captures images of the user and other objects. A voice sensor captures the voice or sounds made by the user. An optical sensor captures and characterizes light. Information captured by the sensors may be collected stored and associated with a specific user.

As shown user can be communicatively coupled via one or more networks to a network based system managed by an online service provider such as for example StubHub Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to allow user to establish one or more communication sessions with network based system using various computing devices and or user programs . Accordingly a communication session between user and network based system may involve the unidirectional and or bidirectional exchange of information and may occur over one or more types of networks depending on the mode of communication. While the embodiment of illustrates a computing system deployed in a user server operating environment it is to be understood that other suitable operating environments and or architectures may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

Data and or voice communications between user and the network based system may be sent and received over one or more networks such as the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network a landline telephone network a VoIP network as well as other suitable networks. For example user may communicate with network based system over the Internet or other suitable WAN by sending and or receiving information via interaction with a web site e mail IM session and or video messaging session. Any of a wide variety of suitable communication types between user and system can take place as will be readily appreciated.

In various embodiments computing system can include among other elements a third party which may comprise or employ a third party server hosting a third party application . In various implementations third party server and or third party application may host a web site associated with or employed by a third party . For example third party server and or third party application may enable network based system to provide user with additional services and or information such as additional ticket inventory. In some embodiments one or more of user programs may be used to access network based system via third party . For example user may use a web user to access and or receive content from network based system after initially communicating with a web site of third party .

Network based system may comprise one or more communication servers to provide suitable interfaces that enable communication using various modes of communication and or via one or more networks . Communication servers can include a web server an API server and or a messaging server to provide interfaces to one or more application servers . Application servers of network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to provide various online marketplace and or ticket fulfillment services to users that access network based system . In various embodiments user may communicate with application servers of network based system via one or more of a web interface provided by web server a programmatic interface provided by API server and or a messaging interface provided by messaging server . It can be appreciated that web server API server and messaging server may be structured arranged and or configured to communicate with various types of user devices and or user programs and may interoperate with each other in some implementations.

Web server may be arranged to communicate with web users and or applications such as a web browser web browser toolbar desktop widget mobile widget web based application web based interpreter virtual machine and so forth. API server may be arranged to communicate with various user programs and or a third party application comprising an implementation of API for network based system . Messaging server may be arranged to communicate with various messaging users and or applications such as e mail IM SMS MMS telephone VoIP video messaging and so forth and messaging server may provide a messaging interface to enable access by user and or third party to the various services and functions provided by application servers .

When implemented as an online ticket marketplace application servers of network based system may provide various online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services including for example account services buying services selling services listing catalog services dynamic content management services delivery services payment services and notification services. Application servers may include an account server a buying server a selling server a listing catalog server a dynamic content management server a payment server a notification server and or a delivery server structured and arranged to provide such online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services. Application servers are adapted to receive a user s seat selection retrieve pictures display views from a selected seat and display information regarding the people who purchased seats proximate the selected seat. The information includes for example physical characteristics of the person such as build height weight etc. and behavior information such as how a person acts or reacts during an event or performance.

Application servers may be coupled to and capable of accessing one or more databases including a subscriber database an active events database and or a transaction database . Databases generally may store and maintain various types of information for use by application servers and may comprise or be implemented by various types of computer storage devices e.g. servers memory and or database structures e.g. relational object oriented hierarchical dimensional network in accordance with the described embodiments.

Continuing with an exemplary computer system suitable for implementing one or more devices of the computing system in is depicted in block diagram format. In various implementations a device that includes computer system may comprise a personal computing device e.g. a smartphone a computing tablet a personal computer laptop PDA Bluetooth device key FOB badge etc. that is capable of communicating with a network. The service provider may utilize a network computing device e.g. a network server capable of communicating with the network. It should be appreciated that each of the devices utilized by users and service providers may be implemented as computer system in a manner as follows.

Computer system can include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via a network. In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices over a network via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for improving seat selection at a venue is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. It should be appreciated that the method illustrated in the embodiment of may be implemented by the systems illustrated in according to one or more embodiments.

In various embodiments the user registers with a service provider which runs a mobile application. Registration may include signing up for the service and agreeing to any terms required by the service provider such as through a user device. In one embodiment the user device is a mobile computing device such as a smart phone a PC or a computing tablet. In other embodiments registration may be done completely through the user device partially through the user device or without using the user device such as through a phone call or in person visit to a representative of the service provider.

The user may be requested to provider specific information for registration such as but not limited to a name address phone number email address picture a user name for the account and a password or PIN for the account. The type of information may depend on whether the user already has an account with the service provider. Requested information may be entered through the user device or other means including voice or manual key entry. Once all the requested information is received and confirmed the service provider may create an account for the user.

The method begins at step where the user selects an available seat at a venue. For example the user may go to a ticketing website select an event and consider a seating chart that displays seats available for purchase at the event.

In various embodiments the seating chart is interactive and the system enables the user to select seats through a website. The system may perform one or more of the following functions present information about a plurality of upcoming performances enable selection of at least one performance for possible attendance search for available seats across one or more performances provide a seating chart of a selected performance with seating information including current availability enable selection of one or more seats from the seating chart save i.e. hold the selected seat s for possible future purchase remove the saved seat s from the inventory of currently available seating to prevent another person from purchasing same enable purchase of the selected seats transmit electronic communications to customers regarding seat selections or purchases and provide the purchaser with the option of receiving electronic ticketing.

The seating chart rendering can be approximate in that it need not be photo realistic but it may be designed to represent the actual venue. It can depict seat locations and physical structures such as walls floors stage or obstructions.

In some embodiments system may enable user to bookmark one or more seats performances events or venues. The bookmarks can then be associated with the user within a user profile. At a later time the user may use the bookmark to link to the seats performances events or venues that were marked. The user may thus use the bookmark to check the availability of seats previously marked and if desired to purchase the seats if they are available.

For each event events database may maintain data indicating the status of some or all seats for each performance. The database may store information about which seats are available for sale which seats are on hold and which seats are bookmarked for updates. The identification of a seat for a particular event may vary based on the event or the venue in which it is held. For example if an event is general admission only then the seat availability data may be implemented to keep track of the number of available seats or the general sections of the seats instead of identifying the specific location of each available seat. In contrast if an event requires specific reserved seats then database may track the status of each individual seat in the venue.

At step the system retrieves pictures of views associated with the user s seat selection. In various embodiments pictures that were taken within a venue are saved in a database such as database . The photos are associated with a particular seat within the venue based on the ticket a person purchased and used to enter the venue. Image recognition and other methods can be used to determine which photos taken at the venue were those of the main viewing area e.g. stage basketball court football field etc. . For example light can be analyzed to determine the brighter area of the photo because the side facing the main viewing area will be brighter. The direction of sounds can also be analyzed at the time the photograph was taken to determine if the photo was taken of the stage. In other examples the system can compare known pictures of the stage with pictures that were taken by people to determine if the images match. Beacons or other near field communication NFC means can also be used to understand where in the venue the photo was taken and embedded magnetometers present in most mobile devices can be used to provide the direction a user device was facing when the picture was taken. Pictures that are identified as those of the main viewing area are then stored in a database.

The images may include views from the perspective or viewpoint of a particular seat. The images may also include other seating information including the exact location of the seat the distance of the seat to the stage or features of a field such as the home plate in baseball or the end zone in football information regarding pole and wall obstructions difficult viewing angles walkway advisory information information regarding whether obstructions block the view information regarding in field obstructions large obstructed areas obstructed area ratios e.g. the area that is blocked from view by the obstruction divided by the total area of the field or main viewing area the closest entrance information regarding whether the seat is sheltered from rain a zoom in view of a seat in a seating section ratings and or reviews of the view and sound quality from the seat comfort of the seat and pictures of the seat.

In some embodiments the photos in the database are associated with the height of the person who took the picture. Thus the photos can also have user height information tagged with them. The person may input his or her height when the pictures are provided. In one embodiment the system is able to access the person s social network profile to determine the height of the person. For example if the person has a profile on a dating website the profile may include height information. In another embodiment the system can access the user s clothing purchase history such as through a fashion application. From the size and length of clothes bought the system can guess how tall the person is. For example when buying pants for men the length of the pants e.g. L L L L etc. must usually be specified. When a woman is buying pants she must specify the inseam of the pants e.g. short regular or long and must also choose between buying petite 5 4 or shorter regular or tall 5 11 or taller .

In various embodiments a beacon positioned on the ground or ceiling of the venue may be used to estimate a person s height. A beacon is a short range communication device having a known or fixed location that provides a signal that can be detected by mobile devices within a certain proximity of the beacon. An example of a beacon is a radio frequency RF beacon e.g. Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon infrared beacon or a radio frequency identifier RFID tag. For example a BLE beacon can broadcast an RF signal that includes its position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude . Mobile devices are able to detect the signal when they are within range of the beacon. The mobile devices can estimate their location e.g. with respect to a beacon located on the ceiling or ground very precisely as well as communicate with the beacon to exchange information. This location information can be used to estimate the height of the person.

For example when a person is holding a mobile device to take a picture at a venue the mobile device communicates with a beacon on the ceiling or the ground and determines how close the device is to the beacon. In one embodiment the beacon is on the ceiling and the service provider determines the distance of the beacon to the ground and then works backwards to calculate the user s height. In another embodiment the beacon is on the ground and the measurement from the ground to the mobile device provides an estimate of the user s height.

At step the system receives the user s height. In one embodiment the user inputs his or her height upon logging into the ticketing website. In another embodiment the user may have previously submitted pictures and the height of the user may already be known.

At step the system displays views of the main viewing area from the perspective of the selected seat and the height of the user . In various embodiments the system retrieves pictures from database for the selected seat that were taken by a person having the same height or substantially the same height e.g. 1 or 2 inch difference . In other embodiments the system retrieves the pictures and visually adjusts the picture upwards or downwards to correspond to the user s height. For example assume the user is 5 7 . A picture that was taken by someone who is 5 11 is adjusted downward to account for the 4 inch difference so that the user can understand what kind of view someone who is his or her height would have of the main viewing area.

At step the system further displays information regarding the people who purchased seats proximate to e.g. next to in front of or in back of the selected seat. For example the system displays traits of people who purchased seats around or near e.g. one or two seats away the selected seat. Such traits may include physical characteristics of the person s such as height weight or build. The height of the person s may be determined in accordance with the discussion above. The height may be provided in number format e.g. 5 5 or may be a more general description e.g. short tall petite average . Weight and build may be deduced for example from the person s clothing purchase history based on the size of the clothes bought. Weight and build characteristics may be described using terms such as plump stocky overweight fat slim trim skinny buff well built etc.

If any of these traits are unfavorable or favorable for the user the system can display an outline of the person on the purchased seat or provide some other kind of visual display or warning to alert the user . For example if a person with a seat directly in front of user is 6 2 and the user is only 5 2 a tall dotted outline may appear where the person will sit to notify the user that his or her view may be obstructed. Similarly if a person that weighs 300 pounds and has the build of a football player has bought a seat adjacent to the selected seat a warning may pop up on the purchased seat. In another embodiment the user is notified that the person sitting in front of the selected seat is shorter than him or her so that the view is not blocked or that a person sitting next to the selected seat has a small build and weight.

The picture data provided to the user can be used in conjunction with the heights of people who have already purchased tickets to the event to help the user determine how his or her view of the main viewing area would look. In various embodiments when a ticket is purchased the assigned seat ticket will contain tagged information including a person s height. Thus when subsequent tickets are purchased people will be able to ensure that they are sitting or standing behind a shorter person or someone similar in height to have an unobstructed view of the main viewing area. If the tickets are to a general admission show a projection can be made to the average height of the audience who has currently purchased tickets as well as projections based on the historical height of the audience based on that artist and venue.

The traits may also include behavior information of the person s who has already purchased a seat. Behavior information includes making a lot of noise dancing singing chanting making hand motions shouting being quiet remaining calm silent or still etc. This behavior information can be obtained for example by a sensor or multiple sensors coupled to a mobile device of the person s during a previous event or performance a mobile device of other people at the event or performance and or equipment at the venue and inputting those activities in a database. The behavior information can be collected and then associated with the person s in the database and with a specific event performance or artist. For example a person s noisy behavior may only be associated with music concerts and sports events but not theater or opera productions. In the category of music concerts the person may be singing and dancing when the artist is Pink Justin Timberlake or The Black Eyed Peas but the person is quiet when the artist is Adele Cher or Britney Spears. Thus the presence of a loud or rowdy person can be identified before the user buys the ticket and the user can avoid sitting near the person or select sitting near the person e.g. if the user prefers to sit near a more energetic person .

For example the user may be browsing seats for a Kelly Clarkson concert and selects a seat near the front. The system notifies the user that a person that sings during Kelly Clarkson concerts has purchased a seat near the front. The user decides to find another seat closer to the middle. The system determines that a person who likes to dance during Lady Gaga concerts has purchased a seat adjacent to the selected seat. The user purchases the seat because he or she believes that the person will probably not dance during the Kelly Clarkson concert if the user is not bothered by dancing or if the user wants the dancing.

In another example the user decides to attend the U.S. Open and selects a seat closer to the back of the stadium. The system informs the user that the seat in front of the selected seat has been purchased by someone shorter than the user . In addition the seat in back of the selected seat has been purchased by someone who does not get too excited or make a lot of noise during tennis matches. The user determines that the selected seat is ideal for someone like him or her i.e. someone who prefers a quiet experience .

At step the user decides to purchase the ticket for the selected seat and the purchase is processed. Alternatively the user may choose to search for another available seat if he or she decides that the people surrounding the selected seat will negatively affect his or her enjoyment of the event or performance.

Particular examples will now be described. The first example describes gathering information about stage views at a show.

Steve purchases a ticket to see John Legend at Bass Concert Hall through his ticket mobile application or app. Steve arrives at the venue has his ticket scanned and goes to his assigned seat. He takes pictures with his phone as the concert progressed and posts pictures to his social networking accounts. Steve had previously set up his fashion app and ticket app to share information between each other and had previously used the fashion app to purchase clothing. Steve had also previously provided his height to the fashion app. When the ticket app makes a service call to the fashion app to retrieve Steve s height information all of Steve s photos are embedded with information about his height.

Since the pictures were taken on Steve s phone the ticket app has permission to use the pictures Steve posted as reference photos. The reference photos contain Steve s specific seat as well as his height. The reference photos are analyzed to determine if they are facing the stage. Reference photos that are facing the stage are saved. Steve loves the Bass Concert Hall venue so he buys a ticket to see Norah Jones one row down from his seat at the John Legend show.

This next example builds on the first example and further illustrates the use of picture information to help prospective ticket buyers.

Michelle uses her ticket app to buy tickets to a Norah Jones concert at the Bass Concert Hall. Michelle sees pictures that show views of the stage from each of the available seats. Michelle inputs her height into the ticket app prior to searching for seats and spots an open ticket behind an occupied seat. Michelle clicked on the open ticket spot to see her view of the stage. It turns out Michelle s seat is the seat Steve had for the John Legend show so the seat itself has a good view of the stage. The pictures Michelle sees are from concert goers who have a similar height as Michelle. She also sees Steve s pictures but they are visually adjusted downward to adjust for her height since she is shorter than Steve.

Michelle s selected seat however is behind the seat that was purchased by Steve. When Steve purchased his ticket to the Norah Jones show through his ticket app his height information was also included with the purchase. In this way the ticket service is able to understand the height of each concert goer and help subsequent customers find a good seat. Michelle sees a dotted outline or some other user interface cue of the projected taller person in this case Steve in her view of the stage.

Michelle decides that there are better seats available so she choose a different seat that has an unobstructed view and makes the purchase with her ticket app. Michelle now has a better concert going experience because she was able to understand exactly how her view of the stage would look prior to purchase. She knew about the obstruction based on the height of people who had purchased tickets.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity and understanding it will be recognized that the above described invention may be embodied in numerous other specific variations and embodiments without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the invention. Various changes and modifications may be practiced and it is understood that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing details but rather is to be defined by the scope of the claims.

