---

title: Group communication configuration
abstract: A method includes generating, by a computing system, configuration information for configuring a communication application, the configuration information based at least in part on usage information associated with communication application configurations specific to a group comprising a plurality of users. The method further includes determining that a first user within the group is using the communication application for communicating via a client device with at least one other user in the group and responsive to the determining, sending the configuration information to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648467&OS=09648467&RS=09648467
owner: Genband US LLC
number: 09648467
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140130
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication configuration and more particularly to methods and systems for handling of group communication configurations.

Communications become increasingly mobile. Users may communicate through mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet devices. Users may also bring their laptop computers to various locations and connect to various networks in order to communicate from those locations. Additionally users often communicate in various contexts using different communication methods. For example users may communicate for work projects using web collaboration applications email applications and other applications suitable for a professional environment. Users may communicate with friends and family using other types of applications such as instant messaging voice calls or video conferencing.

In some cases a user may use a single application for communicating in different contexts. For example a user may use a video conference application for work but share only slides through the video display. The user may share video as captured by a webcam when using the application for communication with friends or family. Even within the same context users may use different settings for various communication applications. For example within the work context users may use different communication application settings for different projects.

Because a user may regularly use different settings for different scenarios a user often has to manually reconfigure the settings of the various communication applications used by the user. This can have an adverse effect on productivity. Additionally this may be a source of frustration for a user. Thus it is desirable to provide methods and systems that provide a better user experience for various communication applications.

According to one example a method includes generating by a computing system configuration information for configuring a communication application the configuration information based at least in part on usage information associated with communication application configurations specific to a group comprising a plurality of users. The method further includes determining that a first user within the group is using the communication application for communicating via a client device with at least one other user in the group and responsive to the determining sending the configuration information to the client device.

According to one example a computing system includes a processor and a memory comprising machine readable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the system to maintain group communication records for a group including a plurality of users maintain user communication records for each of the plurality of users analyze the group communication records and the user communication records to generate preferred communication application configurations for each of the plurality of users determine that an interaction between the plurality of users within the group is to occur and instruct communication applications on client devices of the plurality of users within the group to adopt the preferred communication application configuration for the plurality of users.

According to one example a method for group collaboration communication configuration includes with a server system receiving usage information associated with interactions of a group and maintaining a group communication record for the group the group communication record being associated with a set of user communication records for each user within the group the user communication records associated with communication application settings of users when interacting with the group the group communication records being specific to the group and being different from the set of user communication records. The method further includes in real time determining that a new interaction of the group is to occur detecting a client device used by a first user of the group for the new interaction and configuring settings of the client device based on the user communication records for the first user the settings based on a best match based on historical user settings for interactions of the group stored in the user communications records for the first user.

In the figures elements having similar designations may or may not have the same or similar functions.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing some embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that some embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments disclosed herein are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other elements that although not specifically described here are within the scope and the spirit of this disclosure. In addition to avoid unnecessary repetition one or more features shown and described in association with one embodiment may be incorporated into other embodiments unless specifically described otherwise or if the one or more features would make an embodiment non functional.

As described above a user of conventional systems often has to manually reconfigure the settings of the various communication applications used. For example when a group of users hold regularly scheduled conference calls and make use of web collaboration tools they go through multiple steps to set up the communication sessions. First the users need to dial into the conference bridge and provide the required login credentials. Then they login to the web collaboration tool providing the appropriate credentials again. This can have an adverse effect on productivity. Additionally this may be a source of frustration for a user. This experience can be improved by having the system detect that for such regularly scheduled events both voice and web collaboration are typically used and the system could automatically configure the communication sessions for the group of users.

According to principles described herein user communications within a specific group can be monitored. For example when particular individuals interact with the specific group they may prefer certain settings. One user may typically interact with the group through his or her smart phone and may communicate through voice only. Another user may interact with the group through his or her laptop computer using a web collaboration application. That user may wish to position the web collaboration windows in a particular manner when working with the specific group.

The usage information based on how the group interacts can be collected maintained and analyzed to provide preferred communication configuration information. Specifically usage information related to what communication modes users use in a given group situation is collected. That usage information is leveraged by the system to form preferred communication configuration information. The preferred communication configuration information defines how each user of the group prefers to interact with other members of the group. In some cases the preferred communication information defines how users interact with subgroups within a group. For example one subgroup may be supervisors and another subgroup may be peers. Thus when the group interacts in a subsequent communication session the configuration information can be sent to the devices used by the users for the session. The configuration information then configures the devices and communication sessions based on how the users prefer to interact with the group.

The preferred communication configuration information can be determined through a variety of different ways using information from a variety of different sources. In one case the preferred communication configuration information may be determined based on the most common settings used by the user during communication with the group. For example if a user usually mutes his or her microphone when participating in group meetings then that user s device will automatically mute the microphone when the user interacts with that group. The user s device knows to do this based on the received preferred communication configuration information. Communication configuration information may define a number of other settings including but not limited to application window positioning camera settings speaker settings preferred conversation type chat call screen share video conference and display settings.

The data related to preferred communication configurations can be collected and stored in a variety of ways. For example applications that run on the devices themselves may collect information and determine preferred communication configurations. In some cases the server may do most of the collecting. As will be described in further detail below both the server and the devices themselves may execute the implementation of preferred communication configurations in a variety of different ways. Specifically implementation of the preferred communication settings may be distributed between a client and a server.

In some examples a user s preferred communication configuration may depend on the device from which the user is interacting with the group. This information can affect how the user s device for the current session is automatically set. For example if the user is on a collaborative call on the user s mobile phone a first set of window arrangements might be presented or none at all and allow for voice interaction only whereas a collaborative call on the user s laptop computer might result in a different configuration e.g. different arrangement of windows etc. based on the learned preferences of the user. By contrast when the user is on a collaborative call on his her tablet device the entire screen would be utilized when content is being displayed on the collaboration session.

In some examples the user s preferred settings may not be available based on the current state of the user s device. Thus the users preferred settings may be approximated to come as close as possible in light of the circumstances. Various other features may be used to automatically adapt a user s device to specific group settings as will be described in further detail below.

The group may be formed for a variety of reasons. For example the group may be made up of employees working for the same entity and collaborating on a specific project. In some examples the group may be made up of several different people from different entities collaborating on a project. In some cases the group of people may be made up of friends or family wishing to socialize on occasion.

The group may be formed in a variety of different ways. For example in an organizational environment such as a business a group may be set up manually for a specific purpose by a system administrator. In other words the system administrator may manually set up a group and specify the users of that group. The system administrator may use the communication configuration management application to set up groups as needed or desired.

In some examples a user may have access to the communication configuration management application so that he or she can manually set up his or her own groups. For example the user may set up a group for co workers a group that is made up of school parents who communicate regularly to arrange school activities and a group that is made up of that user s family members. The user may have access to the configuration management application through for example a web portal.

In some examples the group may be automatically detected or discovered over time by analyzing user patterns. If a group of people begin to regularly communicate with each other over communication networks then various pieces of hardware and software within those communication networks can determine that and provide that information to the communication configuration management application .

The communication configuration management application may be used to manage groups of users in accordance with principles described herein. The communication configuration management application may include computer readable instructions that are run on the server . In some examples the application may run on a separate system and be in communication with the server .

When different users communicate with a specific group they may typically communicate using specific devices using specific settings. In this example the first user communicates using a desktop computer . The second user communicates with a laptop computer . The third user communicates with a smartphone device . The fourth user communicates using a tablet device . The type of devices that may be used in accordance with principles described herein is not limited to the illustrated devices. Other devices may be used such as a desktop telephone capable of receiving configuration instructions over a network.

The users may communicate with each other using a specific communication application e.g. a conferencing and file sharing application . The communication application may provide a variety of communication services such as web collaboration services file sharing services voice over interne protocol VoIP services audio or video conference services instant messaging services video chat or calendar services.

In one example a user may use several different communication applications at once. For example the group may use a VoIP application to transmit audio and voice. Additionally the group may use a web collaboration application to share and review documents together. Furthermore the group may use an instant messaging application for quick chats in addition to the audio. Each user may have preferred settings for each of these applications when communicating with members of the group . These settings may include the screen positioning of each of these applications color or background settings and text and font settings. As discussed in further detail below with the text accompanying not all members of a group need to be in a session for the group configurations settings to be applied.

In some examples if a group is determined to be a trusted group like co workers of a common employer then the configuration settings may be set to allow for more information about each user to be displayed such as their shared calendars contact info etc. By contrast such information may not be displayed for other groups such as among a group of school kids parents who may communicate to arrange school activities. In other words based on the nature of the group various types of information may be automatically shared between group members. For instance in a trusted group the user email addresses and telephone numbers etc. may be shared and visible among the members of that group. But in a less trusted groups like among school parents who may only communicate regularly with each other over the course of a single school year their individual email addresses may be hidden. In some examples a generic email address e.g. userA schoolgroup.com userB schoolgroup.com etc. may be created and used as a proxy for the group members true email addresses. That way when the group ends each user s personal contact information has not been distributed.

In some examples a single communication application may offer several different communication services. For example the single communication application may offer the VoIP audio and instant messaging services described above. Each user may have preferred settings for each of these features within the application. For example the application may allow the user to position the different windows associated with each function as desired.

The various users may have different preferences for how they interact with the group . For example when communicating with the group through a video conference application the first user may prefer to minimize the window of the video conference application. This may be because the first user typically communicates using the desktop computer which generally has larger screen space available.

To further the example when communicating with the group using the video conference application the second user may prefer to maximize the volume settings on the laptop device . The third user may prefer to maximize the window of the video conference application due to the small screen space available on the smartphone device . The fourth user may prefer to participate in the audio only and not use the camera of the tablet device for the video aspect of the video conference application. Various other preferred device and application settings may be used by each of the users when communicating with the group . These preferred device and application settings are specific to the group and may not apply when the users communicate with other people or other groups.

The usage information may include various types of information. In general the usage information includes the preferred device and application settings for users within the group . Specifically the usage information may indicate the type of device that is regularly used the capabilities of that device and the regularly used settings of that device. Additionally the usage information may include the commonly used settings for applications running on the device.

The usage information which indicates the preferred device and application settings for users within the group may be collected in a variety of ways. In one embodiment the communication applications running on the user devices may collect the usage information and send it to the server . For example in the case of a web collaboration application used to communicate with the group the web collaboration application itself may collect the user preferences when interacting with the group .

In one embodiment a separate collection application that runs on the user devices may collect the usage information . For example the separate collection application of the devices may collect usage information from the various communication applications running on those devices . Specifically the various device and application settings used when communicating with the group are collected and sent to the server or the communication configuration management application .

In one embodiment usage information may be collected by a server portion of a communication application. For example a web collaboration application may have a server component as well as the client component running on the user devices . The server component may collect the preferred device and usage settings from the user devices .

In one embodiment network equipment within the communication networks that provide communication between the devices may collect the usage information . For example deep packet inspection DPI or other packet analyzers may be used to look for specific pieces of data within the packets being transmitted over the network. The packets may include information that indicates the device and application settings as well as with whom a user is communicating. DPI may be performed in any of a variety of places such as on an enterprise network or within the servers of an Internet Service Provider ISP .

The usage information may be collected continually in order to adapt to a user s changing preference. For example a user may choose to use one setting for a period of time but then learn of a new setting that he or she prefers over the old setting. The continual collection of usage information allows for an updated preferred communication configuration for that user.

In some examples the usage information may indicate whether a user is an active or a passive participant. Using a video conference example an active participant is one who transmits audio or video to participate in the discussion. A passive participant is one who merely listens or watches the audio and video but does not respond. Thus a passive participant may not be transmitting any audio or video data. Rather the passive participant merely receives audio and video data. Determining whether a group participant is active or passive may help determine preferred communication settings.

For example if a user is regularly a passive participant then the preferred communication setting may be to mute the microphone. But on a particular communication session if the user chooses to be an active participant he or she may manually unmute the microphone and engage in communication. If the user becomes more active over time then the usage information will indicate as such and the preferred communication settings may no longer include muting the microphone.

It can be determined that the group is interacting with each other through a variety of methods. In one example the communication applications used by the group can inform the communication configuration management application that a communication session is beginning or scheduled to begin. In one example a separate application running on a user device may detect when communication applications are being used to communicate with the group. In one example DPI may be used to determine when a user is communicating with the group by detecting source and destination addresses correlating those addresses to group members and inferring group communications therefrom. Any appropriate method for detection of group communication is within the scope of embodiments.

The configuration information may include instructions for the appropriate communication application of the user device to implement the preferred settings as a default when the user communicates with the group. Thus the configuration information is specific to a user and the user s device . The configuration information may be packaged according to the type of device and type of application that is having its settings changed to the preferred settings for communication with the group . In some examples the user may be presented with the option of accepting the suggested preferred settings or overriding those for the user s manually set configuration settings on any given occasion. Alternatively the user may have the option to configure a communication application to always accept the configuration settings from the server.

For example the configuration information for the first user may set the position of the window s for the communication application as preferred. The configuration information for the third user and the fourth user may set the configuration of the communication application s used on the devices for those users according to their preferences. But in this example the second user is using a different device than is normally used when communicating with the group. The system can be made aware of this based on device identification information such as media access control MAC address or other type of device identifier. The server may have access to the user s service profile which may indicate the device s used and capabilities of those devices. The user s service profile may also include types of service s used including voice video chat collaboration file sharing and others. The service profile may also include data such as the user s use of services devices and or usage location and or context.

When a user communicates with the group through a different device than usual then the settings of the new device are set as best as possible. For example some preferred settings may be applicable no matter what device a user is using. For example muting a microphone may apply to any device that uses a microphone. The server may have the intelligence to determine what kind of settings can be applied across multiple devices. Other preferred settings may be specific to a device. For example the new device may not have the networking capabilities to stream outgoing video. The server may be able to determine this based on the device identifier. Or the device may inform the server of its capabilities. In some examples the device may receive the configuration settings for the old device but simply not apply those settings because it is not capable of doing so. Thus the user may have to participate only in the audio aspect of a video conference while omitting the video portion.

This approximation may be done by the user s device. For example after the device receives the configuration information it will approximate the preferred configuration for the communication application being used to communicate with the group. This approximation is performed if the current state or type of the device is not amenable to one or more aspects of the preferred configuration. As described above the user may be using a different device with different hardware capabilities.

Alternatively the user s device may have certain hardware features disabled. For example the web camera may be disabled. Thus if the preferred communication configuration is to send video this is not possible if the camera that obtains that video is not enabled. The approximation process which may be performed by the device itself can take into account the hardware states such as a camera state a microphone state a speaker state or a network interface card state and approximate preferred settings when hardware states are incompatible with one or more aspects of the preferred configuration.

Alternatively the approximation is performed if the current state of the communication application running on the device is not amenable to the preferred configuration. For example a video conference application may have a private mode that does not allow video to be sent over the video conference application. Thus a user provides only audio to the group communication within audio mode. When the application is in private mode a particular state then if the preferred communication configuration is to provide video video may nevertheless be omitted based on an overriding setting such as the private mode of the communication application.

In some examples the configuration information may include a first preference and a second preference. In one example a user may use setting A 60 of the time when communicating with the group . That same user might use setting B 35 of the time when communicating with the group . Thus setting A can be a first preference and setting B can be a second preference. Thus if for whatever reason setting A is not available the approximation process can use setting B if setting B is available based on the current state of the user s device and the current state of the communication application on that device.

In some examples the system may present the user with an easy option to select any of the different configuration settings for a given interaction rather than requiring the user to go through the traditional configuration settings menu. This eases the user s ability to get the desired configuration settings more efficiently. For example the system may automatically configure a window arrangement that it assumes is most preferred by a user based on prior interactions . But the system might know of other window arrangements that have also been used on previous occasions by the use. The system might present the user with an easy option to select one of those other configurations. For example the system may provide the user with some form of preview of what each of those other configurations look like and allow the user to select any of them with a click of the mouse or other input mechanism.

In some examples the configuration information may present setting A and setting B and the user may have the option to choose which setting to use. While setting A may be the default setting as that is the most commonly used setting the user may wish to use setting B in a particular communication session with the group . In some cases a user may set the communication application to always accept the configuration information received from the server .

The computing intelligence used to determine how to apply the preferred communication setting may be implemented in various ways. For example the intelligence may be located on a server application that has a client server relationship with an application running on a user s device. In some examples the intelligence is located on the user devices instead of a server. In some examples both client and server work together to perform the desired functions. In some examples various pieces of network equipment within the communication network perform the desired functions. Any appropriate division of intelligence between user devices and network devices may be used in some embodiments.

In one embodiment a user may have an account with the system that provides the automatic communication configuration. The user may access this account through an application on a device or through a web portal. This may be the same web portal used to set up groups. The user may choose what type of information may be collected and what type of information may be shared. For example if a user does not want his or her camera settings to be monitored he or she may choose to prevent them from being monitored. In general the more information a user is willing to share the more the user can be provided with an adaptive experience. The user however may choose to balance the adaptive experience with increased privacy. If some device settings are off limits according to the usage policy then the logic that approximates the configuration settings may omit action regarding these settings as it configures a device.

In one example there may be a separate group that is treated differently than the original group . The separate group includes only the first user the second user and the third user . Thus the configuration information sent to the three users may be based off of the smaller group preferences which may be similar but not necessarily identical to the preferences of the original group .

In one example the system may still treat the group as if each member was present. For example the configuration information may be sent to each user of the group who is currently present i.e. the smaller group . Thus the configuration settings for those users are assumed to be the same as they would be if the fourth user were present. In other words the system may not treat the online users of a group differently when one or more of the users are not present.

In some examples reminders could be sent to all the users about the upcoming communication session. If a particular user does not join the session but decides to join at a later time a mechanism could be provided to the particular user to allow joining the group communication in session . At that time the appropriate configuration may be provided to the late user.

The data storage system may include a number of data storage devices such as hard disks. The data storage system may include multiple disks that are physically located at different locations and connected through a network. Various records stored on the data storage system may be partially stored on one disk and partially stored on another disk.

In one embodiment a group record may be stored as an entry within a database. In some examples the group records may be stored as separate files rather than entries within a database. The group record may be referenced based on the mechanisms used to store the group record . A group record includes data about how users within the group communicate with each other. Thus the group record also includes references to the people who make up the group. The group record also includes the types of devices associated with the users and the typical settings for those devices when communicating with the group.

A group record is different than a user record in that it is referenced with respect to the group. For instance a group record may include a key value pair in which the key is a group identifier either a group number or group name and the associated value may include identifiers for individual users as well as preferred communication settings and preferred devices for those users when communicating with the group and or the like. When implemented as a file the group record may for example include metadata identifying a group. The metadata may identify the group by name or number. In some examples a server may keep track of which device s each user uses the communication applications each user uses on each device and the capabilities of each device application in addition to the user s preferred configuration settings. Such data may be stored in associated with both individual records and group records .

By contrast a user record may include information related to user settings for a variety of different situations and with a variety of different groups. For example a particular user may use some settings for one group and use different settings for a different group. Group records may reference the user records of the users within a group by use of a pointer or other techniques. Also there may be a separate group record for each group in the system. Thus group records are treated separately than user records .

As described above information related to user settings may be collected in a variety of ways. In one example the communication application on the client device collects the information and sends it to the appropriate location. In one example a network device and other similar network devices not shown on a communication network collects the data.

The data collected may be maintained as various statistics related to specific users and groups. These statistics may include data related to different types of services used such as voice video chat collaboration file sharing and others. The statistics may also include data related to devices used device capabilities available and capabilities used. For example a user might have a video camera available but may not use it for a given session. The statistics may also include data related to location as received from a global positioning system GPS or other mechanism derived from network access information. The statistics may also include data related to connection speed and other quality metrics for a given communication session. The statistics may also include data related to duration of communication sessions and time of day for those sessions. The statistics may also include data related to other various contexts as may be obtained from the data being transmitted.

The collected data may be processed by an analytics engine . The analytics engine may sort through the collected data in order to determine which users regularly communicate with which other users in order to determine the groups themselves. This may be done for example by analyzing communication traffic over time and looking for patterns. Additionally the analytics engine can determine the preferred communication configuration settings used by the users when communicating with a specific group.

The preferred communication settings may be determined in a variety of ways. For example the analytics engine may determine that for eight out of ten communication sessions with the group user A turns his or her camera off while communicating with the group. Thus because user A uses this setting a majority of the time when communicating with the group it can be inferred that that is a preferred communication configuration. In some examples there may be a threshold percentage other than 50 that is used to determine preferred communication configurations. For example any setting that is used more than 60 of the time can be set as a preferred communication setting for a particular user with respect to a particular group. Other appropriate thresholds may be used in various embodiments.

In one example the analytics engine may associate metadata with the group records and user records . The metadata may package information in a manner that is efficient for a quick determination of configuration preferences. Thus the configuration information to be sent to the user devices may be more easily obtained when needed. In other words the metadata may summarize usage patterns used to determine preferred communication configurations. The metadata may be updated in real time or on a periodic basis.

The method further includes a step for determining if a group record associated with the group includes configuration preferences for any of the users within the group. If there are no configuration preferences for any user then the method proceeds to step where usage information is collection is continued.

If however the group record does include a configuration preference then the method proceeds to a step for determining if the device being used by a user for the present communication session allows for the configuration preference of that user. If the device does allow the configuration preference then the method proceeds to step wherein the configuration preference is implemented on the user s device. From there the method proceeds to step .

If however the user device does not allow for the configuration preference then the method proceeds to step wherein the configuration preference is approximated as described above based on the current state of the user s device. From there the method proceeds to step .

According to certain illustrative examples the client system includes a memory which may include software such as one or more communication application . The client system also includes a processor a network interface and a user interface .

The memory may be one of several different types of memory. Some types of memory such as non volatile types of memory typically have large storage volume but relatively slow performance. Volatile memory such as those used for Random Access Memory RAM are optimized for speed and are often referred to as working memory. The server memory may also include various types of memory such as volatile or non volatile memory.

The client system also includes a processor for executing software and using or updating data stored in memory . The software may include an operating system and various other software applications. For example the software may include several communication applications used to communicate with other users of a group.

The user interface may include a number of input devices such as a mouse touchpad or touchscreen that allow the user to interact with a GUI. The user interface may also include a number of different types of output devices such as a monitor or a touchscreen. The user interface allows the user to interact with the client system .

The network interface may include hardware and software that allows the client system to communicate with other devices over a network . The network interface may be designed to communicate with the network through hardwire media or wireless media as appropriate. Examples of networks for use in system include the Internet a LAN a cellular network or any other appropriate network.

According to certain illustrative examples the server system includes a memory and a processor . The memory may have stored thereon various group and user records . The server system also includes a network interface for communicating with other devices such as the client system .

The server may include a configuration management application . The configuration management application may be designed to communicate with the communication application of the client system to perform the functions described above. Additionally the implementation of the features described above may be distributed between the server side application and the client side application in a variety of ways. For instance the intelligence to approximate configurations for the devices may be performed by the server side application or by the client side application as appropriate for a particular embodiment.

This data is captured to create end user records and group records . Each user is given the option to opt in out for the collection of some or all of the above data items as described above. The system will attempt to infer missing data such as location data for users who are off net or outside the realm of the network or outside the realm of associated applications making up the system. The captured data may be analyzed and sorted by the analytics engine .

Personalized communication application may be an application run by a server such as server of . When a group communication event is triggered the personalized communication application is invoked. For example a calendar application may send a notification when a reminder is sent for an upcoming group staff call. Application is also able to automatically identify a group communication event by correlating the establishment of new communications sessions to a previous one in real time. In other words if a group regularly meets Tuesdays at 3 00 PM then the application can infer that they will meet again on the upcoming Tuesday at 3 00 PM.

The personalized communication application queries the analytics engine to identify the most frequently used communications profile for the identified group. The profile may be associated with the group record for the identified group. The analytics engine determines the best match by correlating the information available about a new communications session as it is being set up. The analytics engine will consider user entered opt in out data when making its determination. In some examples the analytics engine is run on a server. Though in other examples responsibilities of analytics engine may be distributed among a server and one or more user devices.

The personalized communication application may obtain information from other applications through an application programming interface API . For example a user may have a calendar application that is not directly related to communication services. Such an application can provide data that is relevant to a user s preferred communication settings. Thus application may be run on the network or at one of the user devices .

The communication application may run on client devices . The communication application may be any kind of application that provides a communication service such as an email client or an instant messaging application. The communication application may also perform some of the analytics function in cooperation with or on behalf of the analytics engine .

Also data records that have missing information e.g. a user who is off net may in some embodiments have the missing information weighted neutrally so as not to improperly bias the correlation match determinations made by the analytics engine . Stored information about each individual user s previous communications session with the group as well as a given end user s previous interactions with similar services is used by the analytics engine to determine the best services to use the preferred communication settings for those services as well as the optimal way to present them to each end user on his or her device .

Using the results of the analytics process described above the preferred communication applications are invoked and communication is established with each end user based on the learned preferences. Each user is presented with an optimal user interface for the new session.

Some examples of processing systems described herein may include non transient tangible machine readable media that include executable code that when run by one or more processors e.g. processor may cause the one or more processors to perform the processes of methods and as described above. Some common forms of machine readable media that may include the processes of methods and are for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge and or any other medium from which a processor or computer is adapted to read. Devices described herein in the various FIGS. such as servers user devices and the like may include computer processors that access executable code and execute that code to perform the actions described above. Various embodiments may include a computer program product having a computer readable medium tangibly recording computer program logic to perform the actions described above.

Although illustrative embodiments have been shown and described a wide range of modification change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances some features of the embodiments may be employed without a corresponding use of other features. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations alternatives and modifications. Thus the scope of the invention should be limited only by the following claims and it is appropriate that the claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the embodiments disclosed herein.

