---

title: Method and device for processing service in software-defined networking system
abstract: A method and device for processing a service in a mobile communication system based on SDN technology are provided. The method of controlling access caches in a communication network includes receiving information about contents requested by a user equipment (UE) connected to a first base station. The method also includes transmitting a forwarding request that requests to control at least one switch in order for an access cache that has the contents and that interworks with a second eNB to transfer the contents to the first eNB.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544389&OS=09544389&RS=09544389
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD
number: 09544389
owner_city: Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-Do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140515
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on May 15 2013 and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0055168 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to software defined networking SDN technology and more particularly to a method and device for processing a service in a mobile communication system based on SDN technology.

Software Defined Networking SDN can be networking technology that enables a data plane to perform simple traffic forwarding and that enables a central controller to determine a transmitting location and method of traffic by separating a control plane and the data plane and concentrating a control area to a controller. Particularly by providing various Application Programming Interfaces APIs through a northbound API and enabling programming using the various APIs the controller can perform various traffic controls based on network information. An OpenFlow protocol can be a protocol that supports the SDN to operate and that transfers forwarding information between the controller and a switch and that transfers a state of the switch or traffic information to the controller.

An OpenFlow protocol to be a base of SDN technology has been already standardized in the Open Networking Foundation and a patent has been applied in relation thereto. However in standardization and a patent application a method of transmitting traffic can be discussed and defined. For example U.S. Patent Laid Open Publication No. 2011 0261825 in which a patent can be applied to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 176 619 by Kiyohisa Ichino NEC Corporation and laid opened with a title of an invention OpenFlow Communication System and OpenFlow Communication Method relates to a specification of an OpenFlow protocol. The patent application describes OpenFlow technology and generally discloses operation of OpenFlow and an operation method in a switch to which OpenFlow can be applied.

A method of using an OpenFlow protocol has been discussed. For example U.S. Patent Laid Open Publication No. 2012 0300615 in which a patent is applied to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 838 by four persons Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson other than James Kempf and laid opened with a title of an invention Implementing EPC in a Cloud Computer with OpenFlow Data Plane suggests a method of using OpenFlow in a Long Term Evolution LTE network. The patent relates to a method of embodying an Evolved Packet Core EPC in cloud and describes an example of applying OpenFlow to necessary technology when virtualizing the EPC.

Content caching technology provides contents in which a user equipment UE of a mobile communication system requests. An access cache and a core cache provide a content caching function in an eNB and a core. For contents in which a UE requests it can be first determined whether the same content is stored at an access cache located at an eNB site and if the same content is stored at an access cache a corresponding content can be transferred to the UE. In this case a method of transferring traffic may be changed according to a method of embodying the core cache and the access cache. As a method of transferring traffic for example byte caching technique and object caching technique may be used. Such existing content caching technology can exhibit effect only when a content in which the UE requests is stored at an access cache installed at an eNB site. When a corresponding content is not stored at an access cache interworking with an eNB to which the UE can be accessed but when a corresponding content is stored at an access cache interworking with an adjacent eNB there can be no method of transferring the content to the UE. Therefore when a content in which a UE requests is not stored at an access cache interworking with an eNB to which the UE is accessed but when a corresponding content is stored at an access cache interworking with an adjacent eNB a method of effectively transferring the content to the UE can be requested.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to provide a method and device for processing a service that effectively transfers a requested content to a UE when a content in which a UE requests is stored at an access cache interworked with an adjacent base station instead of a base station to which the UE is accessed.

In a first example a method of controlling access caches in a communication network includes receiving information about contents requested by a UE accessed to a first base station. The method also includes transmitting a forwarding request that requests to control at least one switch in order for an access cache that has the contents and that interworks with a second base station to transfer the contents to the first base station.

In a second example a method of operating a controller that controls switches in a communication network includes receiving a forwarding request that requests to forward contents requested by a UE accessed to a first base station. The method also includes determining a forwarding path in order for an access cache that has the contents and that interworks with a second base station to transfer the contents to the first base station. The method further includes transmitting path information to at least one switch.

In a third example a method of operating a switch in a communication network includes receiving path information about contents to transfer from a controller to a UE accessed to a first base station. The method also includes transmitting contents stored at an access cache interworking with a second base station to another switch interworking with the first base station.

In a fourth example a device that controls access caches in a communication network includes a communication unit configured to receive information about contents requested by a UE accessed to a first base station and that transmits a forwarding request that requests to control at least one switch in order for an access cache that has the contents and that interworks with a second base station to transfer the contents to the first base station.

In a fifth example a controller device configured to control switches in a communication network includes a communication unit that receives a forwarding request that requests to forward contents requested by a UE accessed to a first base station. The controller device also includes a controller configured to determine a forwarding path in order for an access cache that has the contents and that interworks with a second base station to transfer the contents to the first base station wherein the communication unit is configured to transmit path information W to at least one switch.

In a sixth example a switch device in a communication network includes a control unit configured to receive path information about contents to transfer from a controller to a UE accessed to a first base station and configured to control the transmission of contents stored at an access cache interworking with a second base station to another switch interworking with the first base station.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Referring to it can be assumed that the network is an LTE network in which ENs as an access cache that provides a content caching function in an eNB site and a Core Network CN as a core cache that provides a content caching function in a core exist.

An Access OpenFlow Switch A OFS can be disposed between an eNB and an access cache EN to connect them and an OpenFlow Switch A OFS can be disposed between an eNB and an access cache EN to connect them. An OpenFlow switch C OFS can interwork with a CN . The A OFS the A OFS and the C OFS can be connected to each other and can be controlled by an SDN controller SDNC A . OpenFlow can be applied to the A OFSs and and the C OFS and the A OFSs and and the C OFS can perform an operation such as path setup based on the SDNC and OpenFlow. The SDNC can analyze traffic using a deep packet inspection DPI function unit can determine a forwarding path on each switch basis and can transfer the forwarding path to each switch so as to transfer the packet to an appropriate server.

In a configuration of a network in order to efficiently transmit traffic A OFSs and can perform a General Packet Radios System GPRS Tunneling Packet GTP termination function. In other words the A OFSs and can perform encapsulation and decapsulation of a GTP packet. Accordingly the A OFSs and can perform a function similar to that of an existing Evolved Packet Core EPC . Therefore a Mobility Management Entity MME existing at an existing core network can interwork with the A OFSs and . Further the SDNC can interwork with a smart cache manager can acquire information about a location of a content in which a user equipment requests and can set a path at each switch according to the information.

The eNBs and the ENs and and the MME can perform an existing function. Herein the eNB and can be referred as a base station.

The A OFSs and can perform a function such as a flow processing according to bearer setup and resource allocation of a user equipment and a Policy and Charging Control PCC rule. The A OFSs and can perform a data plane function of the EPC and control information such as path setup can be set based on control information transferred from the SDNC . An OpenFlow agent can be executed and thus when a flow packet that is not set is received the A OFSs and can report the fact to the SDNC can acquire control information of the SDNC and can set a path.

The OFS or Core OpenFlow Switch C OFS can be a switch that can process a general OpenFlow protocol can acquire forward path setup information from the SDNC and can perform path setup based on the forward path setup information.

By interworking with the smart cache manager the SDNC can transfer a forward path setup instruction to the A OFSs and and the OFS based on an OpenFlow protocol. For this the SDNC can interwork with the smart cache manager using an application program interface such as a RESTful API.

By interworking with the CN the smart cache manager can acquire and manage content information stored at each of the ENs and . Contents using as an object can be contents preloaded by a Content Provider CP and the information can be stored at the CN and can be managed by the CN according to an operation of the smart cache manager . Therefore the smart cache manager can acquire the information actual contents and a Uniform Resource Location URL can manage address information of an EN in which contents are stored can grasp an EN in which contents corresponding to an URL in which the user equipment requests are stored and can transfer this to the SDNC . For such an operation the smart cache manager can include a communication unit that can provide an interface for transmitting and receiving information to and from another entity a storage unit that can store data and a control unit that can control an operation of the smart cache manager .

The DPI can perform a function requiring together with a function in which a general DPI performs. For example contents can be contents in which a CP preloads and can be a large amount of media file. That is the DPI can analyze an HTTP request message in which the user equipment requests can determine whether a requested content is a content in which the CP preloads and can perform a function of notifying the smart cache manager of the content.

An SDN based communication system shown in can include an eNB a first A OFS interworking with the eNB an EN interworking with the A OFS an eNB adjacent to the eNB an A OFS interworking with the eNB and an EN interworking with the A OFS .

In an embodiment a method of processing a service in an SDN based communication system can include a process of determining an access cache in which contents corresponding to a packet are stored when the packet is received from a user equipment UE connected to the eNB . The method can also include a process of setting a path of the A OFSs and so as to transfer the packet via the EN when the determined access cache is the EN .

In an embodiment a service processing device of an SDN based communication system can include a smart cache manager that can determine an access cache in which a content corresponding to the packet is stored when the packet is received from a UE accessed to the eNB and an SDNC that can set a path of the OpenFlow switches so as to transfer the packet via the EN when the determined access cache is the EN .

When the UE is initially accessed a bearer setup procedure can be performed according to a LTE standard. In an embodiment the A OFSs and can perform a function of the EPC and thus a bearer can be set between the UE and the A OFS and a UE IP can be acquired through the MME and an IP address of the UE can be allocated S .

The A OFS can notify the SDNC of bearer allocation information such as Tunneling Endpoint Identifier TEID International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI together with the allocated IP address of the UE S .

Thereafter in order to route UE traffic based on the notified bearer allocation information the SDNC can set a path of OpenFlow switches including the OFS S .

A TCP connection of the UE can be set to an origin server and in this process the OFSs and can operate similar to a general switch S . Further the A OFS can perform GTP termination and can transmit a UE packet according to a preset path at a previous operation.

The A OFS can receive an HTTP GET request packet of the UE can recognize the HTTP GET request packet as a new packet can send the HTTP GET request packet to the DPI and can enables the DPI to analyze the HTTP GET request packet S . In this case the A OFS can transmit a packet transmitted by the UE to the DPI or can transmit only header information. The A OFS can transmit only header information to the DPI and can transmit a packet transmitted by the UE to the DPI through a preset path. illustrates an example case of transmitting a portion in which analysis is necessary to the DPI instead of buffering a packet of a UE and transmitting the UE packet through a preset path.

When the HTTP GET request packet is transmitted through tunneling the A OFS can decapsulate a tunneling packet. Specifically by decapsulating the tunneling packet the A OFS can extract the HTTP GET request packet and can transmit the extracted HTTP GET request packet or header information to the DPI . The A OFS can encapsulate a tunneling packet. Specifically by encapsulating the HTTP GET request packet the A OFS can generate a tunneling packet and can transmit the tunneling packet through the preset path. For example the tunneling packet can be a GTP packet.

The DPI can analyze HTTP header information included in an HTTP request message based on received information. The DPI can extract an URL an IP address and TCP information from the analyzed header information and can transmit the URL the IP address and the TCP information to the smart cache manager S .

The smart cache manager can determine a location at which a content corresponding to the URL transmitted by the DPI is stored. When a content corresponding to an URL included in a HTTP GET request message in which the UE transmits is stored at the EN of the adjacent eNB instead of being stored at the EN of the eNB to which the UE is presently accessed by interworking with the smart cache manager the SDNC can set a forward path of the OpenFlow switch so as to transfer a UE packet via the EN . That is when a content in which the UE requests is stored at the EN of the adjacent eNB the smart cache manager can transfer a packet forwarding request to the SDNC S . In this case the packet forwarding request can include an IP address of the EN .

When a packet forwarding request is received from the smart cache manager the SDNC can set a forward path of the OpenFlow switch so as to transfer the UE packet via the EN and can update a forward table related thereto S .

An HTTP response message can be transferred to the UE via the EN in a response to a HTTP GET request message through a preset path S .

Referring to because a corresponding content in which the UE requests is stored at the EN and a cache hit is performed and thus the EN can operate as a direct content providing server.

The EN can notify the CN of a cache hit and can enable the CN to disconnect a connection to the server S .

The EN can generate a TCP state for operating as a TCP source using TCP state information in which the CN has transmitted and can directly transmit a requested content to the UE S . After a cache hit operation of the EN and the CN follows operation can be defined in a smart cache system.

Referring to the OpenFlow switch can include a plurality of ports to N a storage unit and a control unit .

The plurality of ports to N can be connection points of lines for forming a backhaul network. Each of the plurality of ports to N can be connected to an eNB.

The storage unit can store a basic program and can setup information necessary for operation of the OpenFlow switch. Particularly the storage unit can store path information determined according to information notified from the SDNC. The storage unit can update data and can provide stored data according to the control of the control unit .

The control unit can control general operations of the OpenFlow switch. Particularly the control unit can include an OpenFlow protocol processor that can control to operate as an agent of an OpenFlow protocol a bearer setup unit that can perform a bearer setup procedure of a UE and a flow processor that processes flow of UEs. For path setup and traffic transfer the control unit can control the OpenFlow switch to operate like the A OFSs and shown in .

The communication unit can provide an interface for transmitting and receiving information to and from another entity through a network. The communication unit can be referred to as a network card an Ethernet card an Ethernet adaptor and a Network Interface Card NIC . The communication unit can transmit and receive a signal as described herein. Accordingly the communication unit can be referred to as a transmitting unit a receiving unit or a transmitting and receiving unit.

The storage unit can store data such as a basic program an application program and setup information for operation of the SDNC. Particularly the storage unit can store a forward table including path information of OpenFlow agents. The storage unit can update data and can provide stored data according to the control of the control unit .

The control unit can control general operation of the network entity. For example the control unit can transmit and receive a signal through the communication unit . In an embodiment the control unit can includes an OpenFlow protocol processor that controls to operate as a controller according to an OpenFlow protocol a path setup unit that can set a path of OpenFlow agents and a northbound API processor that can receive information necessary for path setup. The control unit can acquire information necessary for setup through the northbound API processor .

For path setup and traffic transfer the control unit can control to operate the SDNC like the SDNC shown in .

The foregoing exemplary embodiments can have the following effect compared with an existing smart cache system. When a UE requests contents that are not stored at an EN as an access cache interworked with an eNB the existing smart cache system should receive the contents from a server via a core network and thus backhaul should be used and a response time can be extended and thus User eXperience UX can decrease. However in an embodiment by grasping contents stored at an EN of an adjacent eNB when a corresponding content exists at the adjacent eNB by enabling to transmit the content from the EN of the adjacent eNB to the UE a backhaul use amount can be reduced and by transmitting the content at a more near location UX of the UE can be improved.

Furthermore by enabling adjacent ENs to operate in a pooling form a limited storage capacity can be shared and thus the storage capacity can be efficiently stored and used. Therefore a storage capacity to storage of each EN can be increased.

Embodiments of the present invention according to the claims and description in the specification can be realized in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

Such software may be stored in a computer readable storage medium. The computer readable storage medium stores one or more programs software modules the one or more programs comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors in an electronic device cause the electronic device to perform methods of the present invention.

Such software may be stored in the form of volatile or non volatile storage such as for example a storage device like a Read Only Memory ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not or in the form of memory such as for example Random Access Memory RAM memory chips device or integrated circuits or on an optically or magnetically readable medium such as for example a Compact Disc CD Digital Video Disc DVD magnetic disk or magnetic tape or the like. It will be appreciated that the storage devices and storage media are embodiments of machine readable storage that are suitable for storing a program or programs comprising instructions that when executed implement embodiments of the present invention. Embodiments provide a program comprising code for implementing apparatus or a method as claimed in any one of the claims of this specification and a machine readable storage storing such a program. Still further such programs may be conveyed electronically via any medium such as a communication signal carried over a wired or wireless connection and embodiments suitably encompass the same.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

