---

title: Dynamic duty-cycling of processor of mobile device based on operating condition of mobile device
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes recording a first location of a mobile device; determining, by a geographic-positioning component of the mobile device, on a periodic basis, a trajectory of the mobile device, wherein the trajectory is calculated based on present and past user locations; determining, by the geographic-positioning component, whether the trajectory is outside a geographic region defined at least in part by the first location; and if the trajectory is outside the geographic region, then transmitting, by the processors of the geographic-positioning component, a message to one or more other processors of the mobile device, the message causing one or more of the other processors to transition from a sleep state to an active state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521623&OS=09521623&RS=09521623
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09521623
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141027
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 416 975 filed 9 Mar. 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to geographic positioning capable devices and more particularly to methods of dynamically determining processor duty cycle of a geographic positioning capable device based on geographic position.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. A geo social networking system is a social networking system in which geographic services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User submitted location data or geo location techniques e.g. mobile phone position tracking can allow a geo social network system to connect and coordinate users with local people or events that match their interests. For example users can check in to a place using a mobile client application by providing a name of a place or selecting a place from a pre established list of places . The geo social networking system among other things can record information about the user s presence at the place and possibly provide this information to other users of the geo social networking system.

A geographic location of a mobile device e.g. a cell phone a tablet computer equipped with cellular Wi Fi and or GPS Global Positioning System capabilities can be identified with geographic positioning signals obtained by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning. Such mobile devices may have additional functionalities incorporating geographic location data of the devices for example providing driving directions displaying a map of a current location or providing information of nearby points of interest such as restaurants gas stations etc.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts. A user may also input status messages that get posted to the user s profile page.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can generally model the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to geographic locations or places. Places may correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars train stations airports and the like. In one implementation each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. Social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a browser hosted by a wired or wireless station such as a laptop desktop or mobile device. For example social networking system may serve web pages or other structured documents to users that request information about a place. In addition to user profile and place information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. A check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. A user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The social networking system may automatically checks in a user to a place based on the user s current location and past location data as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 042 357 filed on Mar. 7 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. An entry including a comment and a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check in activities of users at a given place and include such check in activity in web pages or other structured documents that correspond to a given place. The check in activity may also be displayed on a user profile page and in news feeds provided to users of the social networking system.

Still further a special purpose client application hosted on a mobile device of a user may be configured to continuously capture location data of the mobile device and send the location data to social networking system. In this manner the social networking system may track the user s location and provide various recommendations to the user related to places that are proximal to the user s current trajectory or path or that are frequented by the user. In one implementation a user may opt in to this recommendation service which causes the client application to periodically post location data of the user to the social networking system.

In particular embodiments location database may store an information base of places where each place includes a name a geographic location and meta information such as the user that initially created the place reviews comments check in activity data and the like . Places may be created by administrators of the system and or created by users of the system. For example a user may register a new place by accessing a client application to define a place name and provide a geographic location and cause the newly created place to be registered in location database . As discussed above a created place may correspond to a hub node which an administrator can claim for purposes of augmenting the information about the place and for creating ads or other offers to be delivered to users. In particular embodiments system front end may construct and serve a web page of a place as requested by a user. In some embodiments a web page of a place may include selectable components for a user to like the place or check in to the place. In particular embodiments location database may store geo location data identifying a real world geographic location of a user associated with a check in. For example a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the computer s IP address. For example a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with cellular Wi Fi and or GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments location database may store a geographic location and additional information of a plurality of places. For example a place can be a local business a point of interest e.g. Union Square in San Francisco Calif. a college a city or a national park. For example a geographic location of a place e.g. a local coffee shop can be an address a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude or a reference to another place e.g. the coffee shop next to the train station . For example additional information of a place can be business hours photos advertisements or user reviews of the place. In particular embodiments location database may store a user s location data. For example a user can create a place e.g. a new restaurant or coffee shop and the social networking system can store the created place in location database . For example location database may store a user s check in activities. For example location database may store a user s geographic location provided by the user s GPS equipped mobile device.

A mobile device system may comprise one or more sensor devices to provide additional inputs and facilitate multiple functionalities of the system. Processing of sensor inputs by a system with one or more sensor devices for example processing a GPS sensor signal and displaying in the device s graphical user interface a map of a location corresponding to the GPS sensor signal may be implemented by a combination of hardware software and or firmware or device drivers . illustrates an example processing stack of a mobile device e.g. a smart phone with one or more sensor devices. In the example of sensor subsystem of the mobile device can include one or more sensor devices for example a GPS sensor for location positioning and a motion sensor for determining orientation of the mobile device etc. One or more device drivers in driver layer hosted by one or more processors of the mobile device can communicate and control the one or more sensors of sensor subsystem . For example a device driver can receive and process a GPS signal generated by a GPS sensor. For example a device driver can receive and process sensor signals generated by multiple sensors in sensor subsystem . One or more processors can host various software programs for example operating system running one or more application programs e.g. web browser address book etc. in applications and managing sensor subsystem via the one or more device drivers in driver layer . Libraries can include one or more libraries used by one or more application programs in applications . For example a web browser application can access a mapping library e.g. via a function call that generates a map containing a GPS location obtained by a device driver interpreting a GPS signal from a GPS sensor and display the map in the web browser application s graphical user interface.

One or more processors of a system while not being active i.e. not executing one or more programs can enter a sleep state to reduce energy consumption by the system. For example a sleep state can be that all computing states of a processor are saved in a main memory and the processor is powered off. For example a sleep state can be that a processor is not executing instructions but all computing states of the processor are still maintained in the processor e.g. stored in the processor s cache .

Ordinarily in order for a system comprising one or more sensors to access a sensor or process a sensor signal of the system one or more processors of the system need to be in an active state to access the sensor via a device driver. For example for a special purpose client application hosted on a user s mobile device to continuously capture locations of the user as described above one or more processors of the mobile device need to be in an active state to access a GPS sensor driver as often as the sampling frequency of the continuous location capturing e.g. every five minutes even when there is little location change e.g. the user is attending a meeting for the next two hours and the one or more processors could be in a sleep state instead of being in the active state. This can cause unnecessary periods of the active state or duty cycles of the one or more processors of the mobile device thus cause higher energy consumption and shorter battery life of the mobile device. Particular embodiments herein describe methods of dynamically determining processor duty cycle of a mobile device while continuously accessing geographic position with the mobile device s geographic positioning device. Although the mobile device s position or location may be determined by accessing and analyzing geographic positioning signals via a sensor it is contemplated that any suitable method for obtaining a mobile device or device user s geographical location may be used to dynamically determine processor duty cycles for the mobile device. Particular embodiments utilize a geographic positioning device that can be programmed to execute programs for controlling a geographic position sensing circuit translating geographic positioning signals from the geographic position sensing circuit to geographic locations performing computations e.g. calculating a distance between two geographic locations obtained from the geographic position sensing circuit or determining whether a condition is met and alerting the one or more processors of the mobile device if a condition is met e.g. if a distance calculated is greater than a pre determined threshold . In some embodiments the geographic positioning device may comprise a geographic position sensing circuit that receives geographic positioning signals e.g. a GPS sensor a memory one or more lower power processors that can be programmed to execute programs to control the geographic position sensing circuit and perform computations and an interface circuit e.g. I2C bus that communicates with the one or more processors of the mobile device. In one embodiment the geographic positioning device may be implemented as a single module or a single integrated circuit situated within the mobile device comprising the geographic position sensing circuit the memory and the one or more lower power processors operably coupled to the one or more processors of the mobile system via the interface circuit. In other embodiments the geographic positioning device may comprise a sensor hub such as the sensor subsystem of the mobile device illustrated in comprising one or more sensor circuits that receive one or more sensor signals including for example geographic positioning signals such as GPS signals a memory one or more lower power processors that can be programmed to control the sensor circuits and perform computations such as calculating a distance between two geographic locations described above and an interface circuit that communicates with the one or more processors of the mobile device. In one embodiment the sensor hub may be implemented as a single module or a single integrated circuit situated within the mobile device comprising the one or more sensor circuits the memory and the one or more lower power processors operably coupled to the one or more processors of the mobile device via the interface circuit.

In particular embodiments the geographic positioning device may determine a velocity of the mobile device based on recent location data stored locally at the mobile device. In some embodiments the geographic positioning device may determine a default velocity e.g. 3 miles per hour if no recent location data is available.

In some embodiments the geographic positioning device may determine a radius based on time of day. For example the geographic positioning device can access time of day information via a system call. For example the geographic positioning device can determine a smaller radius e.g. a quarter mile if the time of day information corresponds to an evening hour e.g. between 10 PM to 6 AM since the mobile device s user is likely to have less movement. In other embodiments the geographic positioning device may determine a radius based on a power budget available for the mobile device. For example an operating system or an application program hosted by the mobile device can access battery level information e.g. via a function call and transmit the battery level information to the geographic positioning device. For example if the mobile device s battery level is less then a pre determined threshold e.g. 20 of full capacity the geographic positioning device may determine a larger radius so that there is less frequent detection of location changes thus reducing power consumption and preserving remaining battery power. In yet another embodiment the geographic positioning device may determine a radius based on an error associated with recording one or more locations. An error associated with one or more recorded locations may depend on one or more sources of the recording e.g. GPS cell tower triangulation etc. movement of the mobile device time of the recording etc. For example to avoid erroneous detection of location changes the geographic positioning device can obtain an accuracy distance e.g. a horizontal distance greater than the error associated with the one or more recorded locations and determine a radius at least two times of the accuracy distance. In particular embodiments the geographic positioning device may determine a radius based on multiple factors such as time of day power budget and or errors associated with recorded locations described above. For example the geographic positioning device can determine a radius based on a weighted average of radii determined by each individual factor. For example the geographic positioning device can determine a radius based on power budget only if the mobile device s battery level is very low e.g. 10 of full capacity . In some embodiments one or more client applications hosted by the one or more processors of the mobile system may determine a radius based on velocity time of day power budget or errors associated with recorded locations. For example a special purpose client application for continuously capturing and storing a user s location data in a remote data store can determine a radius based on a velocity calculated by most recent location data of the user and provide the radius to the geographic positioning device. In some embodiments the one or more client applications may determine a radius based on multiple factors such as velocity time of day power budget and or errors associated with recorded locations.

In particular embodiments the geographic positioning device may record one or more additional locations at a pre determined frequency e.g. every ten minutes and determine if a second location of the one or more additional locations is beyond the radius from the first location . In yet other embodiments the geographic positioning device may record one or more additional locations at a frequency that is dynamically determined based on factors related to the mobile device including for example the user s location. If there are no additional locations beyond the radius from the first location i.e. there is no substantially change in location the geographic positioning device may continue to record one or more additional locations at the pre determined frequency. If a second location of the additional locations is beyond the radius from the first location the geographic positioning device may transmit a message to the one or more processors of the mobile device . In particular embodiments the message may comprise the second location. In particular embodiments the message may cause at least one of one or more processors to transition from a sleep state to an active state. Additionally the geographic positioning device may continue the example method of . For example the geographic positioning device may record a new first position by using a previous second location that is beyond a previous radius from a previous first location determine a new radius and determine whether there is substantially change in location based on the new first location and the new radius .

The example method of can be further illustrated by . illustrates a user s movement. In the example of a user carrying a GPS equipped mobile phone is at a park Hoover Park . A special purpose client application hosted by one or more processors of the mobile phone can continuously capture the user s locations by accessing a GPS sensor of the mobile phone via a device driver and store the locations at location database at an interval of for example every ten minutes. The interval length may in other embodiments be varied. Ordinarily one or more processors of the mobile device is active at least every ten minutes in order to access the GPS sensor and store the locations at location database . In contrast with the example method of the special purpose client application can instruct a sensor hub comprising a GPS sensor and other sensors a memory one or more lower power processors and an interface circuit communicating with the one or more processors of the mobile device to start recording a first location location 1 in and determine a radius based on a velocity of the mobile phone and if there is no other programs running on the one or more processors at the time the one or more processors can enter a sleep state. The sensor hub can continue to record new locations every ten minutes and determine whether the new locations are beyond radius from the first location. For example the user may be playing with his kids at the park for the next 30 minutes e.g. as recorded locations 2 3 and 4 and just start to leave the park afterwards e.g. as recorded location 5 . Since there is no substantial change in the user s location i.e. the user is at or near the park as determined by radius the sensor hub with the one or more lower power processors which may consume substantially lower power than the one or more processors of the mobile device can continue to record new locations every ten minutes while the one or more processors of the mobile device are at the sleep state. In particular embodiments the frequency of location capturing may occur at intervals determined dynamically based on various factors including for example the location of the mobile device. In the example of if the sensor hub determines that the user has moved to a particular location beyond radius as illustrated by location 6 in the sensor hub can transmit a message comprising the particular location to the one or more processors causing at least one of the one or more processors transition from the sleep state to an active state and execute the special purpose client application to process the updated location data. For example the special purpose client application may transmit the location to a remote host as part of a location based query in order to receive information relevant to the location e.g. points of interest near the location such as restaurants parks or advertisements relevant to the location such as an a coupon from coffee shop near the location . The special purpose client application may also transmit the updated location data to a remote data store such as location database for storage in association with a user identifier and enabling additional functions for example automatically checking in a user to a place near the location or alerting a user s first degree contacts who are near the location or vice versa . In the example of the sensor hub may determine a radius centered on location 6 and start recording new locations locations 7 8 9 and determine whether there is substantially change in location while the one or more processors of the mobile device may enter the sleep state if there is no other programs running on the one or more processors.

In particular embodiments the method for dynamically determining processor duty cycle of a mobile device while continuously accessing geographic position with the mobile device s geographic positioning device need not involve the calculation of a location radius. In particular embodiments whether with or without hardware or software support for radius calculation one or more processors of the mobile device may be alerted to transition their states e.g. from a sleep state to an active state based on certain conditions being met as described herein. As an example the one or more processors of the mobile system may be alerted to transition from a sleep state to an active state based on the present location of the mobile device user. This location may be determined by way of example and without limitation via GPS Wi Fi or cell tower signals as well as by previous geographic position signal values and with the aid of any suitable techniques including for example dead reckoning or Kalman filtering. As another example the one or more processors of the mobile system may be alerted to transition their state based on the velocity of the user. The user s velocity may be determined for example by keeping track of both present and past user locations to create an estimate of the user s trajectory and speed. In other embodiments one or more processors of the mobile device may be alerted to transition their state based on time of day. If for example the time is in the middle of the night when the user is likely sleeping based in particular embodiments on prior user activity the processors of the mobile device may be alerted to transition to a sleep state. In other embodiments one or more processors of the mobile device may be alerted to transition their state based on user activity. For example if the mobile device is determined to be in a pocket or desk of the user then the processors may transition to a sleep state whereas if the mobile device is determined to be in the user s hand the processors may transition to an active state. As another example the processors may transition state based on input from a hand sensor on the mobile device. If such a hand sensor determines that the user s hand is touching or in proximity to the mobile device then the processors of the mobile device may transition to an alert state for example. In yet other embodiments if the user is in or near a social entity on the social network of interest to the user e.g. as determined by the user s profile on the social network the processors of the mobile device may be alerted to transition to an awake state and similarly if the user is not near any or near a threshold number of social entities of interest to the user the processors may transition to a sleep state. For example if the user is near a location that is also a social entity and the user frequents this location determined for example by the user s social network check ins to that location the processors of the mobile system may be alerted to transition to an active state. Similarly if the user is located near one or more friends or first degree contacts of the user the processors may be alerted to transition to an active state. As another example a history of the user s locations may also be used to create a trajectory and the trajectory information may similarly be used to alert the processors of the mobile system depending on the locations or contacts of interest near to the user s trajectory. Any combination of the factors described herein may be used to determine whether the processors of the mobile device should be alerted to transition their state. Additionally the frequency with which any of the processors of the mobile device are alerted to transition to an awake state e.g. every ten minutes may be determined dynamically based for example on the user s location as well as by any suitable factor including for example those mentioned herein.

Particular embodiments utilize a geographic positioning device that can be programmed to execute programs for controlling a geographic position sensing circuit translating geographic positioning signals from the geographic position sensing circuit to geographic locations performing computations e.g. calculating a distance between two geographic locations obtained from the geographic position sensing circuit or determining whether a condition is met and alerting the one or more processors of the mobile device if a condition is met e.g. if a distance calculated is greater than a pre determined threshold .

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . This disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation look aside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network such as for example a 802.11a b g n WI FI network a 802.11s mesh network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network a Long Term Evolution LTE network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus a Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART interface a Inter Integrated Circuit IC bus a Serial Peripheral Interface SPI bus a Secure Digital SD memory interface a MultiMediaCard MMC memory interface a Memory Stick MS memory interface a Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface a Multi channel Buffered Serial Port McBSP bus a Universal Serial Bus USB bus a General Purpose Memory Controller GPMC bus a SDRAM Controller SDRC bus a General Purpose Input Output GPIO bus a Separate Video S Video bus a Display Serial Interface DSI bus a Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture AMBA bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

The client side functionality described above can be implemented as a series of instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium that when executed cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above. While the client device may be implemented in a variety of different hardware and computing systems shows a schematic representation of the main components of an example computing platform of a client or mobile device according to various particular embodiments. In particular embodiments computing platform may comprise controller memory and input output subsystem . In particular embodiments controller which may comprise one or more processors and or one or more microcontrollers configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with a computing platform. In various embodiments controller may be implemented as a single chip multiple chips and or other electrical components including one or more integrated circuits and printed circuit boards. Controller may optionally contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses. By way of example using instructions retrieved from memory controller may control the reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of computing platform . By way of example controller may include one or more processors or one or more controllers dedicated for certain processing tasks of computing platform for example for 2D 3D graphics processing image processing or video processing.

Controller together with a suitable operating system may operate to execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. By way of example and not by way of limitation the operating system may be Windows based Mac based or Unix or Linux based or Symbian based among other suitable operating systems. The operating system other computer code and or data may be physically stored within memory that is operatively coupled to controller .

Memory may encompass one or more storage media and generally provide a place to store computer code e.g. software and or firmware and data that are used by computing platform . By way of example memory may include various tangible computer readable storage media including Read Only Memory ROM and or Random Access Memory RAM . As is well known in the art ROM acts to transfer data and instructions uni directionally to controller and RAM is used typically to transfer data and instructions in a bi directional manner. Memory may also include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of by way of example hard disk drives HDDs solid state drives SSDs flash memory cards e.g. Secured Digital or SD cards embedded MultiMediaCard or eMMD cards among other suitable forms of memory coupled bi directionally to controller . Information may also reside on one or more removable storage media loaded into or installed in computing platform when needed. By way of example any of a number of suitable memory cards e.g. SD cards may be loaded into computing platform on a temporary or permanent basis.

Input output subsystem may comprise one or more input and output devices operably connected to controller . For example input output subsystem may include keyboard mouse one or more buttons thumb wheel and or display e.g. liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED Interferometric modulator display IMOD or any other suitable display technology . Generally input devices are configured to transfer data commands and responses from the outside world into computing platform . The display is generally configured to display a graphical user interface GUI that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of the computing platform and the operating system or application s running on the mobile device. Generally the GUI presents programs files and operational options with graphical images. During operation the user may select and activate various graphical images displayed on the display in order to initiate functions and tasks associated therewith. Input output subsystem may also include touch based devices such as touch pad and touch screen. A touchpad is an input device including a surface that detects touch based inputs of users. Similarly a touch screen is a display that detects the presence and location of user touch inputs. Input output system may also include dual touch or multi touch displays or touch pads that can identify the presence location and movement of more than one touch inputs such as two or three finger touches.

In particular embodiments computing platform may additionally comprise audio subsystem camera subsystem wireless communication subsystem sensor subsystems and or wired communication subsystem operably connected to controller to facilitate various functions of computing platform . For example Audio subsystem including a speaker a microphone and a codec module configured to process audio signals can be utilized to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions. For example camera subsystem including an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips. For example wired communication subsystem can include a Universal Serial Bus USB port for file transferring or a Ethernet port for connection to a local area network LAN . Additionally computing platform may be powered by power source .

Wireless communication subsystem can be designed to operate over one or more wireless networks for example a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN an infrared PAN a WI FI network such as for example an 802.11a b g n WI FI network an 802.11s mesh network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network and or a Long Term Evolution LTE network . Additionally wireless communication subsystem may include hosting protocols such that computing platform may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices. Other input output devices may include an accelerometer that can be used to detect the orientation of the device.

Sensor subsystem may include one or more sensor devices to provide additional input and facilitate multiple functionalities of computing platform . For example sensor subsystems may include GPS sensor for location positioning altimeter for altitude positioning motion sensor for determining orientation of a mobile device light sensor for photographing function with camera subsystem temperature sensor for measuring ambient temperature and or biometric sensor for security application e.g. fingerprint reader .

In particular embodiments various components of computing platform may be operably connected together by one or more buses including hardware and or software . As an example and not by way of limitation the one or more buses may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus a Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART interface a Inter Integrated Circuit IC bus a Serial Peripheral Interface SPI bus a Secure Degital SD memory interface a MultiMediaCard MMC memory interface a Memory Stick MS memory interface a Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface a Multi channel Buffered Serial Port McBSP bus a Universal Serial Bus USB bus a General Purpose Memory Controller GPMC bus a SDRAM Controller SDRC bus a General Purpose Input Output GPIO bus a Separate Video S Video bus a Display Serial Interface DSI bus an Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture AMBA bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Additionally computing platform may be powered by power source .

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl JavaScript or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

