---

title: Substituted phenyl hexahydropyrano[3,4-][1,3]thiazin-2-amine compounds
abstract: 

wherein the variables Rand Rare as defined in the specification. Corresponding pharmaceutical compositions, methods of treatment, methods of synthesis, and intermediates are also disclosed.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09233981&OS=09233981&RS=09233981
owner: Pfizer Inc.
number: 09233981
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140202
---
This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT IB2014 058777 filed on Feb. 4 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 765 283 filed on Feb. 15 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to small molecule compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof that are inhibitors of site amyloid precursor protein APP Cleaving Enzyme 1 BACE1 and inhibitors of BACE2. This invention relates to inhibiting the production of A beta peptides that can contribute to the formation of neurological deposits of amyloid protein. The present invention also relates to the treatment of Alzheimer s Disease AD and other neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders as well as the treatment of diabetes in mammals including humans. More particularly this invention relates to thioamidine compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders such as AD and Down s Syndrome related to A beta peptide production.

Dementia results from a wide variety of distinctive pathological processes. The most common pathological processes causing dementia are Alzheimer s disease AD cerebral amyloid angiopathy CM and prion mediated diseases see e.g. Haan et al. Clin. Neurol. Neurosurg. 1990 92 4 305 310 Glenner et al. J. Neurol. Sci. 1989 94 1 28 . AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction. AD affects nearly half of all people past the age of 85 the most rapidly growing portion of the United States population. As such the number of AD patients in the United States is expected to increase from about 4 million to about 14 million by 2050.

The accumulation of amyloid A peptides is believed to be one of the underlying causes of Alzheimer s Disease AD which is the most common cause of cognitive decline in the elderly Hardy Allsop Trends Pharmacol Sci. 1991 12 10 383 8 Selkoe Behav. Brain Res. 2008 192 1 106 13 . A the major protein constituent of amyloid plaques is derived from sequential cleavage of the type I integral membrane protein amyloid precursor protein APP by two proteases and secretase. Proteolytic cleavage of APP by the site APP cleaving enzymes BACE1 and BACE2 generates a soluble N terminal ectodomain of APP sAPP and the C terminal fragment C99. Subsequent cleavage of the membrane bound C99 fragment by the secretase liberates the various A peptide species of which A 40 and A 42 are the most predominant forms Vassar et al. J. Neurosci. 2009 29 41 12787 94 Marks Berg Neurochem. Res. 2010 35 181 210 . Therefore limiting the generation of A directly through inhibition of BACE1 is one of the most attractive approaches for the treatment of AD as BACE1 inhibitors could effectively inhibit the formation of all predominant A peptides.

In addition it has been determined that BACE1 knock out mice had markedly enhanced clearance of axonal and myelin debris from degenerated fibers accelerated axonal regeneration and earlier reinnervation of neuromuscular junctions compared with littermate controls. These data suggest BACE1 inhibition as a therapeutic approach to accelerate regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage. See Farah et al. J. Neurosci. 2011 31 15 5744 5754 .

Insulin resistance and impaired glucose homoeostasis are important indicators of Type 2 diabetes and are early risk factors of AD. In particular there is a higher risk of sporadic AD in patients with Type 2 diabetes and AD patients are more prone to Type 2 diabetes Butler Diabetes 53 474 481 2004. . Recently it has also been proposed that AD should be reconsidered as Type 3 diabetes de la Monte J. Diabetes Sci. Technol. 2008 2 6 1101 1113 . Of special interest is the fact that AD and Type 2 diabetes share common pathogenic mechanisms and possibly treatments Park S. A. J. Clin. Neurol. 2011 7 10 18 Raffa Br. J. Clin. Pharmacol 2011 71 3 365 376 . Elevated plasma levels of A the product of BACE activities were recently associated with hyperglycemia and obesity in humans see Meakin et al. Biochem J. 2012 441 1 285 96 Martins Journal of Alzheimer s Disease 8 2005 269 282 . Moreover increased A production prompts the onset of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance in mice C zar Castellano Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 302 E1373 E1380 2012 Delibegovic Diabetologia 2011 54 2143 2151 . Finally it is also suggested that circulating A could participate in the development of atherosclerosis in both humans and mice De Meyer Atherosclerosis 216 2011 54 58 Catapano Atherosclerosis 210 2010 78 87 Roher Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1812 2011 1508 1514 .

Therefore it is believed that BACE1 levels may play a critical role in glucose and lipid homoeostasis in conditions of chronic nutrient excess. Specifically BACE1 inhibitors may be potentially useful for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver as illustrated by the fact that reduction in BACE1 decreases body weight protects against diet induced obesity and enhances insulin sensitivity in mice see Meakin et al. Biochem. J. 2012 441 1 285 96 . Of equal interest is the identification of LRP1 as a BACE1 substrate and the potential link to atherosclerosis Strickland Physiol. Rev. 88 887 918 2008 Hyman J. Biol. Chem. Vol. 280 No. 18 17777 17785 2005 .

Likewise inhibition of BACE2 is proposed as a treatment of Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 . BACE2 is a cell enriched protease that regulates pancreatic cell function and mass and is a close homologue of BACE1. Pharmacological inhibition of BACE2 increases cell mass and function leading to the stabilization of Tmem27. See Esterhazy et al. Cell Metabolism 2011 14 3 365 377 . It is suggested that BACE2 inhibitors are useful in the treatment and or prevention of diseases associated with the inhibition of BACE2 e.g. Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 .

Aminodihydrothiazine or thioamidine compounds are described in US2009 0082560 WO 2009 091016 and WO 2010 038686 as useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. Co pending PCT application PCT IB2012 054198 filed by Pfizer Inc on Aug. 17 2012 also describes aminodihydrothiazine compounds that are useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. The present invention is directed to novel thioamidine compounds and their use in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including AD as well as the treatment of metabolic diseases and conditions such as diabetes and obesity.

Rat each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy cyano Calkyl Calkoxy Calkoxy Calkyl Ccycloalkoxy Ccycloalkyl CRR Ccycloalkoxy CRR Ccycloalkyl CRR O or 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl CRR wherein said Calkyl Calkoxy or Calkoxy Calkyl are each optionally substituted with one to three fluoro and wherein said Ccycloalkyl Ccycloalkoxy and 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl moieties are optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of fluoro methyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl or trifluoromethyl or two R when attached to adjacent carbons on the phenyl and taken together can be CH O O CH O or CH 

Another embodiment of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising compounds of Formula I or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle diluent or carrier. The pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be used for inhibiting production of amyloid protein and for inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 for treating a neurodegenerative disease and in particular Alzheimer s Disease for inhibiting BACE1 and or BACE2 activity for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of diseases and disorders characterized by elevated amyloid levels including diabetes or Type 2 diabetes for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver in a mammal including humans and for treating and or preventing obesity.

The present invention is also directed to methods of treatment employing the compounds of Formula I such as 

 1 Methods of inhibiting BACE enzyme activity by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a thioamidine compound of any of the embodiments of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a mammal or a patient in need thereof.

 3 Methods for treating a neurological disorder such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Niemann Pick type C brain injury stroke cerebrovascular disease cognitive disorder sleep disorder or a psychiatric disorder such as anxiety factitious disorder impulse control disorder mood disorder psychomotor disorder psychotic disorder drug dependence eating disorder and pediatric psychiatric disorder in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

 4 Methods for the treatment e.g. delaying the progression or onset of diabetes or diabetes related disorders including Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes impaired glucose tolerance insulin resistance hyperglycemia and diabetic complications such as atherosclerosis coronary heart disease stroke peripheral vascular disease nephropathy hypertension neuropathy and retinopathy 

 5 Methods for the treatment of obesity co morbidities such as metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome includes diseases conditions or disorders such as dyslipidemia hypertension insulin resistance diabetes e.g. Type 2 diabetes coronary artery disease and heart failure. For more detailed information on metabolic syndrome see e.g. Zimmet P. Z. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome Perhaps an Etiologic Mystery but Far From a Myth Where Does the International Diabetes Federation Stand Medscape Diabetes Endocrinology 7 2 2005 and Alberti K. G. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome A New Worldwide Definition Lancet 366 1059 62 2005 and

 6 Methods for the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD and hepatic insulin resistance 

The present invention is also directed to combination therapies wherein the compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided 

All patents patent applications and references referred to herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Other features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from this specification and the appendent claims which describe the invention. It is to be understood that both the foregoing and the following detailed description are exemplary only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention and the examples included therein. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to specific methods of synthesis which may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In this specification and in the claims that follow reference will be made to a number of terms that shall be defined to have the following meanings 

As used herein eating disorders refer to illnesses in which the patient suffers disturbances in his her eating behaviors and related thoughts and emotions. Representative examples of obesity related eating disorders include overeating bulimia binge eating disorder compulsive dieting nocturnal sleep related eating disorder pica Prader Willi syndrome and night eating syndrome.

 Patient refers to warm blooded animals such as for example guinea pigs mice rats gerbils cats rabbits dogs cattle goats sheep horses monkeys chimpanzees and humans.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable means the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means reversing alleviating inhibiting the progress of delaying the progression of delaying the onset of or preventing the disorder or condition to which such term applies or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating as treating is defined immediately above. The term treating also includes adjuvant and neo adjuvant treatment of a subject. For the avoidance of doubt reference herein to treatment includes reference to curative palliative and prophylactic treatment and to the administration of a medicament for use in such treatment.

The term alkyl refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen in one embodiment containing from one to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl propyl including n propyl and isopropyl butyl including n butyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl pentyl isoamyl hexyl and the like.

The term alkoxy refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent attached to an oxygen radical i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon alcohol by removal of the hydrogen from the OH in one embodiment containing from one to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include methoxy ethoxy propoxy including n propoxy and isopropoxy butoxy including n butoxy isobutoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy pentoxy hexoxy and the like.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. alkyl cycloalkyl etc. is indicated by the prefix C C or C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl or Calkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C Ccycloalkyl or C cycloalkyl refers to saturated cycloalkyl group containing from 3 to 6 carbon ring atoms.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a carbocyclic substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated carbocyclic molecule for example one having three to six carbon atoms. The term Ccycloalkyl means a radical of a three to six membered ring which includes the groups cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. The term Ccycloalkoxy refers to a three to six membered cycloalkyl group attached to an oxygen radical. Examples include cyclopropoxy cyclobutoxy cyclopentoxy and cyclohexoxy.

In some instances the number of atoms in a cyclic substituent containing one or more heteroatoms i.e. heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix x to y membered wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of atoms forming the cyclic moiety of the substituent. Thus for example 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl containing from 4 to 6 atoms including one to three heteroatoms in the cyclic moiety of the heterocycloalkyl. The heteroatoms present in these ring systems are selected from N O and S.

The term hydroxy or hydroxyl refers to OH. When used in combination with another term s the prefix hydroxy indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more hydroxy substituents. Compounds bearing a carbon to which one or more hydroxy substituents include for example alcohols enols and phenol.

The term halo or halogen refers to fluorine which may be depicted as F chlorine which may be depicted as Cl bromine which may be depicted as Br or iodine which may be depicted as I .

The term heterocycloalkyl refers to a substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated or partially saturated ring structure containing a total of the specified number of atoms such as 4 to 6 ring atoms wherein at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. In a group that has a heterocycloalkyl substituent the ring atom of the heterocycloalkyl substituent that is bound to the group may be a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be a ring carbon atom. Similarly if the heterocycloalkyl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom. In a certain embodiment the heterocycloalkyl can be fused to the phenyl group in R.

The term phenyl refers to a substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a benzene ring. In the case of the present invention the phenyl is substituted with one to three Rgroups which are as defined herein.

If substituents are described as independently having more than one variable each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other s from the list of variables available. Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

If substituents are described as being independently selected from a group each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other s . Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

As used herein the term Formula I may be hereinafter referred to as a compound s of the invention the present invention and compound of Formula I. Such terms are also defined to include all forms of the compound of Formula I including hydrates solvates isomers crystalline and non crystalline forms isomorphs polymorphs and metabolites thereof. For example the compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may exist in unsolvated and solvated forms. When the solvent or water is tightly bound the complex will have a well defined stoichiometry independent of humidity. When however the solvent or water is weakly bound as in channel solvates and hygroscopic compounds the water solvent content will be dependent on humidity and drying conditions. In such cases non stoichiometry will be the norm.

The compounds of the invention may exist as clathrates or other complexes. Included within the scope of the invention are complexes such as clathrates drug host inclusion complexes wherein the drug and host are present in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. Also included are complexes of the compounds of the invention containing two or more organic and or inorganic components which may be in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. The resulting complexes may be ionized partially ionized or non ionized. For a review of such complexes see J. Pharm. Sci. 64 8 1269 1288 by Haleblian August 1975 .

The compounds of the invention have asymmetric carbon atoms. The carbon carbon bonds of the compounds of the invention may be depicted herein using a solid line a solid wedge or a dotted wedge . The use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers e.g. specific enantiomers racemic mixtures etc. at that carbon atom are included. The use of either a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that only the stereoisomer shown is meant to be included. It is possible that compounds of Formula I may contain more than one asymmetric carbon atom. In those compounds the use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers are meant to be included. For example unless stated otherwise it is intended that the compounds of Formula I can exist as enantiomers and diastereomers or as racemates and mixtures thereof. The use of a solid line to depict bonds to one or more asymmetric carbon atoms in a compound of Formula I and the use of a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to other asymmetric carbon atoms in the same compound is meant to indicate that a mixture of diastereomers is present.

Stereoisomers of Formula I include cis and trans isomers optical isomers such as R and S enantiomers diastereomers geometric isomers rotational isomers conformational isomers and tautomers of the compounds of the invention including compounds exhibiting more than one type of isomerism and mixtures thereof such as racemates and diastereomeric pairs . Also included are acid addition or base addition salts wherein the counterion is optically active for example D lactate or L lysine or racemic for example DL tartrate or DL arginine.

When any racemate crystallizes crystals of two different types are possible. The first type is the racemic compound true racemate referred to above wherein one homogeneous form of crystal is produced containing both enantiomers in equimolar amounts. The second type is the racemic mixture or conglomerate wherein two forms of crystal are produced in equimolar amounts each comprising a single enantiomer.

The compounds of Formula I may exhibit the phenomenon of tautomerism such tautomers are also regarded as compounds of the invention. For example the compounds of Formula I may exist in several tautomeric forms including the 2 aminodihydrothiazine form Ia and the 2 imino tetrahydrothiazine form Ib. All such tautomeric forms and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of compounds of Formula I. Tautomers exist as mixtures of a tautomeric set in solution. In solid form usually one tautomer predominates. Even though one tautomer may be described the present invention includes all tautomers of the compounds of Formula I and salts thereof. Examples of tautomers are described by the compounds of Formula Ia and Ib and collectively and generically are referred to as compounds of Formula I.

The compounds of this invention may be used in the form of salts derived from inorganic or organic acids. Depending on the particular compound a salt of the compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s physical properties such as enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or oil. In some instances a salt of a compound also may be used as an aid in the isolation purification and or resolution of the compound.

Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being used in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt prepared by combining a compound of Formula I with an acid whose anion or a base whose cation is generally considered suitable for human consumption. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are particularly useful as products of the methods of the present invention because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound. For use in medicine the salts of the compounds of this invention are non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Salts encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the present invention when possible include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic hydrofluoric boric fluoroboric phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric carbonic sulfonic and sulfuric acids and organic acids such as acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glycolic isothionic lactic lactobionic maleic malic methanesulfonic trifluoromethanesulfonic succinic toluenesulfonic tartaric and trifluoroacetic acids. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids.

Specific examples of suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate toluenesulfonate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sufanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate 2 naphthalesulfonate oxalate palmoate pectinate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate and undecanoate.

Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may include the lighter alkali metal salts i.e. sodium or potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium or magnesium salts and salts formed with suitable organic ligands e.g. quaternary ammonium salts. In another embodiment base salts are formed from bases which form non toxic salts including aluminum arginine benzathine choline diethylamine diolamine glycine lysine meglumine olamine tromethamine and zinc salts.

Organic salts may be made from secondary tertiary or quaternary amine salts such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

In one embodiment hemisalts of acids and bases may also be formed for example hemisulfate and hemicalcium salts.

Also within the scope of the present invention are so called prodrugs of the compound of the invention. Thus certain derivatives of the compound of the invention which may have little or no pharmacological activity themselves can when administered into or onto the body be converted into the compound of the invention having the desired activity for example by hydrolytic cleavage. Such derivatives are referred to as prodrugs. Further information on the use of prodrugs may be found in Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 ACS Symposium Series T. Higuchi and V. Stella and Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Pergamon Press 1987 ed. E. B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association . Prodrugs in accordance with the invention can for example be produced by replacing appropriate functionalities present in the compounds of any of Formula I with certain moieties known to those skilled in the art as pro moieties as described for example in Design of Prodrugs by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 .

The present invention also includes isotopically labeled compounds which are identical to those recited in Formula I but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the present invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N O O P S F and Cl respectively. Compounds of the present invention prodrugs thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or of said prodrugs that contain the aforementioned isotopes and or other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of this invention. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C are incorporated are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically labeled compounds of Formula I of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples and Preparations below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

A second embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris

A third embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment wherein Ris hydrogen or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fourth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment wherein Ris methyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fifth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the third embodiment selected from the group consisting of 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 fluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 6 4 chlorophenyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 trifluoromethoxy phenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 methoxyphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 ethoxyphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 methoxymethyl phenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 1 methoxyethyl phenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4 4aR 6R 8aS 2 amino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl benzonitrile and 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 difluoromethyl phenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A sixth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment selected from the group consisting of 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 fluorophenyl 4 methyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine and 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 cyanophenyl 4 methyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A seventh embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment wherein Ris hydrogen or methyl 

An eighth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the seventh embodiment selected from the group consisting of 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 fluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 methoxymethyl phenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 3 4aR 6R 8aS 2 amino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl benzonitrile and 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 cyanophenyl 4 methyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A ninth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment wherein Ris hydrogen and

A tenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the ninth embodiment selected from 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 2 fluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine and 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 2 methoxyphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 

An eleventh embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first aspect wherein Ris hydrogen and

A twelfth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the eleventh embodiment wherein Rat each occurrence is independently selected from fluoro methyl or methoxy or the two R when attached to adjacent carbons on the phenyl and taken together can be CH O or O CH O n is 2 and o is 1 or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A thirteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the twelfth embodiment selected from the group consisting of 4aR 6R 8aS 6 8a bis 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 fluoro 3 methylphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 fluoro 4 methylphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 4 fluoro 3 methoxyphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 2 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine and 4aR 6R 8aS 6 1 3 benzodioxol 5 yl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fourteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment wherein Ris hydrogen 

A fifteenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourteenth embodiment selected from the group consisting of 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 fluoro 5 methylphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine and 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 3 fluoro 5 methoxyphenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention is a compound of Formula I wherein Ris hydrogen or methyl wherein said methyl is optionally substituted with one to three fluoro Ris phenyl which is fused to a 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group wherein said 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group contains one to two heteroatoms selected from N O and S and wherein said phenyl can be further substituted with one to two R and R Rand Rare as described above for the first embodiment or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A first embodiment of a second aspect of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any one of the first to fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle diluent or carrier.

Further embodiments of the present invention include methods of treatment employing the compounds of the present invention.

A first embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting production of amyloid protein in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of inhibition of production of amyloid protein.

A second embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of inhibition of beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 .

A third embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method for treating a neurodegenerative disease in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of treatment thereof.

A fourth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is the method of the third embodiment of the third aspect wherein the neurodegenerative disease is Alzheimer s Disease.

A fifth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of treating or preventing diabetes in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of treatment or prevention thereof.

A sixth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is the method of the fifth embodiment of the third aspect wherein the diabetes is Type 2 diabetes.

Further embodiments of the present invention include the use of a compound according to any one of first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention in the preparation of a medicament useful for treating the conditions diseases and disorders as described herein.

Typically a compound of the invention is administered in an amount effective to treat a condition as described herein. The compounds of the invention are administered by any suitable route in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Therapeutically effective doses of the compounds required to treat the progress of the medical condition are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art using preclinical and clinical approaches familiar to the medicinal arts.

The compounds of the invention may be administered orally. Oral administration may involve swallowing so that the compound enters the gastrointestinal tract or buccal or sublingual administration may be employed by which the compound enters the blood stream directly from the mouth.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly into the blood stream into muscle or into an internal organ. Suitable means for parenteral administration include intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intraventricular intraurethral intrasternal intracranial intramuscular and subcutaneous. Suitable devices for parenteral administration include needle including microneedle injectors needle free injectors and infusion techniques.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered topically to the skin or mucosa that is dermally or transdermally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention can also be administered intranasally or by inhalation. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may be administered rectally or vaginally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly to the eye or ear.

The dosage regimen for the compounds and or compositions containing the compounds is based on a variety of factors including the type age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition the route of administration and the activity of the particular compound employed. Thus the dosage regimen may vary widely. Dosage levels of the order from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day are useful in the treatment of the above indicated conditions. In one embodiment the total daily dose of a compound of the invention administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg. In another embodiment total daily dose of the compound of the invention is from about 0.1 to about 50 mg kg and in another embodiment from about 0.5 to about 30 mg kg i.e. mg compound of the invention per kg body weight . In one embodiment dosing is from 0.01 to 10 mg kg day. In another embodiment dosing is from 0.1 to 1.0 mg kg day. Dosage unit compositions may contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In many instances the administration of the compound will be repeated a plurality of times in a day typically no greater than 4 times . Multiple doses per day typically may be used to increase the total daily dose if desired.

For oral administration the compositions may be provided in the form of tablets containing from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient or in another embodiment from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously doses may range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion.

Suitable subjects according to the present invention include mammalian subjects. Mammals according to the present invention include but are not limited to canine feline bovine caprine equine ovine porcine rodents lagomorphs primates and the like and encompass mammals in utero. In one embodiment humans are suitable subjects. Human subjects may be of either gender and at any stage of development.

In another embodiment the invention comprises the use of one or more compounds of the invention for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the conditions recited herein.

For the treatment of the conditions referred to above the compound of the invention can be administered as compound per se. Alternatively pharmaceutically acceptable salts are suitable for medical applications because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises pharmaceutical compositions. Such pharmaceutical compositions comprise a compound of the invention presented with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier can be a solid a liquid or both and may be formulated with the compound as a unit dose composition for example a tablet which can contain from 0.05 to 95 by weight of the active compounds. A compound of the invention may be coupled with suitable polymers as targetable drug carriers. Other pharmacologically active substances can also be present.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered by any suitable route preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. The active compounds and compositions for example may be administered orally rectally parenterally or topically.

Oral administration of a solid dose form may be for example presented in discrete units such as hard or soft capsules pills cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of at least one compound of the present invention. In another embodiment the oral administration may be in a powder or granule form. In another embodiment the oral dose form is sub lingual such as for example a lozenge. In such solid dosage forms the compounds of Formula I are ordinarily combined with one or more adjuvants. Such capsules or tablets may contain a controlled release formulation. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also may comprise buffering agents or may be prepared with enteric coatings.

In another embodiment oral administration may be in a liquid dose form. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also may comprise adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a parenteral dose form. Parenteral administration includes for example subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intraperitoneal injections intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a topical dose form. Topical administration includes for example transdermal administration such as via transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices intraocular administration or intranasal or inhalation administration. Compositions for topical administration also include for example topical gels sprays ointments and creams. A topical formulation may include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. When the compounds of this invention are administered by a transdermal device administration will be accomplished using a patch either of the reservoir and porous membrane type or of a solid matrix variety. Typical formulations for this purpose include gels hydrogels lotions solutions creams ointments dusting powders dressings foams films skin patches wafers implants sponges fibres bandages and microemulsions. Liposomes may also be used. Typical carriers include alcohol water mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum glycerin polyethylene glycol and propylene glycol. Penetration enhancers may be incorporated see for example J. Pharm. Sci. 88 10 955 958 by Finnin and Morgan October 1999 .

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye include for example eye drops wherein the compound of this invention is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier. A typical formulation suitable for ocular or aural administration may be in the form of drops of a micronized suspension or solution in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline. Other formulations suitable for ocular and aural administration include ointments biodegradable e.g. absorbable gel sponges collagen and non biodegradable e.g. silicone implants wafers lenses and particulate or vesicular systems such as niosomes or liposomes. A polymer such as cross linked polyacrylic acid polyvinyl alcohol hyaluronic acid a cellulosic polymer for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose or methyl cellulose or a heteropolysaccharide polymer for example gelan gum may be incorporated together with a preservative such as benzalkonium chloride. Such formulations may also be delivered by iontophoresis.

For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the active compounds of the invention are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant. Formulations suitable for intranasal administration are typically administered in the form of a dry powder either alone as a mixture for example in a dry blend with lactose or as a mixed component particle for example mixed with phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine from a dry powder inhaler or as an aerosol spray from a pressurized container pump spray atomizer preferably an atomizer using electrohydrodynamics to produce a fine mist or nebulizer with or without the use of a suitable propellant such as 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane or 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 heptafluoropropane. For intranasal use the powder may comprise a bioadhesive agent for example chitosan or cyclodextrin.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a rectal dose form. Such rectal dose form may be in the form of for example a suppository. Cocoa butter is a traditional suppository base but various alternatives may be used as appropriate.

Other carrier materials and modes of administration known in the pharmaceutical art may also be used. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy such as effective formulation and administration procedures. The above considerations in regard to effective formulations and administration procedures are well known in the art and are described in standard textbooks. Formulation of drugs is discussed in for example Hoover John E. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Liberman et al. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker New York N. Y. 1980 and Kibbe et al. Eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Ed. American Pharmaceutical Association Washington 1999.

The compounds of the present invention can be used alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents in the treatment of various conditions or disease states. The compound s of the present invention and other therapeutic agent s may be may be administered simultaneously either in the same dosage form or in separate dosage forms or sequentially.

Two or more compounds may be administered simultaneously concurrently or sequentially. Additionally simultaneous administration may be carried out by mixing the compounds prior to administration or by administering the compounds at the same point in time but at different anatomic sites or using different routes of administration.

The phrases concurrent administration co administration simultaneous administration and administered simultaneously mean that the compounds are administered in combination.

The present invention includes the use of a combination of a BACE inhibitor compound as provided in Formula I and one or more additional pharmaceutically active agent s . If a combination of active agents is administered then they may be administered sequentially or simultaneously in separate dosage forms or combined in a single dosage form. Accordingly the present invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of a a first agent comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound b a second pharmaceutically active agent and c a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle or diluent.

The compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided. Suitable pharmaceutical agents that may be used in combination with the compounds of the present invention include without limitation 

The present invention further comprises kits that are suitable for use in performing the methods of treatment described above. In one embodiment the kit contains a first dosage form comprising one or more of the compounds of the present invention and a container for the dosage in quantities sufficient to carry out the methods of the present invention.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of the invention.

The compounds of Formula I may be prepared by the methods described below together with synthetic methods known in the art of organic chemistry or modifications and transformations that are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art. The starting materials used herein are commercially available or may be prepared by routine methods known in the art such as those methods disclosed in standard reference books such as the Vol. I XII published by Wiley Interscience . Preferred methods include but are not limited to those described below.

During any of the following synthetic sequences it may be necessary and or desirable to protect sensitive or reactive groups on any of the molecules concerned.

This can be achieved by means of conventional protecting groups such as those described in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1981 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1991 and T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1999 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be prepared according to the reaction Schemes discussed herein below. Unless otherwise indicated the substituents in the Schemes are defined as above. Isolation and purification of the products is accomplished by standard procedures which are known to a chemist of ordinary skill.

One skilled in the art will recognize that in many cases the compounds in Schemes 1 through 6 will be generated as a mixture of diastereomers and or enantiomers these may be separated at various stages of the synthetic schemes using conventional techniques or a combination of such techniques such as but not limited to crystallization normal phase chromatography reversed phase chromatography and chiral chromatography to afford the single enantiomers of the invention.

It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the various symbols superscripts and subscripts used in the schemes methods and examples are used for convenience of representation and or to reflect the order in which they are introduced in the schemes and are not intended to necessarily correspond to the symbols superscripts or subscripts in the appended claims. The schemes are representative of methods useful in synthesizing the compounds of the present invention. They are not to constrain the scope of the invention in any way.

Scheme 1 refers to the preparation of compounds of Formula I. Referring to Scheme 1 the compound of Formula I can be prepared from the compound of Formula II through a removal of protecting group P. Pin this case refers to groups well known to those skilled in the art for amine protection. For example Pmay be a benzoyl group Bz which can be cleaved via acidic conditions or through treatment with 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU in methanol. Alternatively Pmay be one of many protecting group suitable for amines including 9 fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl Fmoc or tert butoxycarbonyl BOC and can be cleaved under standard conditions known to one skilled in the art.

Scheme 2 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. The treatment of lactones of Formula III with base for instance potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide KHMDS and N 5 chloropyridin 2 yl 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Comins Reagent provides compounds of Formula IV. The reaction of enol triflate IV with the corresponding R containing boronic acid using standard Suzuki reaction conditions A. Suzuki 1999 576 147 168 N. Miyaura and A. Suzuki 1995 95 2457 2483 A. F. Littke et al. 2000 122 4020 4028 replaces the triflate with R subsequent reduction of the resultant enol ether using standard reduction conditions for instance trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate TMSOTf and triethylsilane provides compounds of Formula II. Alternatively the corresponding R containing heteroaryl iodide can be coupled with the compound of Formula IV under palladium mediated conditions with hexabutyldistannane. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 3 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Boc. The addition of an organometallic derivative magnesiate or lithiate of Rto compounds of Formula III under standard anionic conditions for instance in tetrahydrofuran THF at 78 C. provides compounds of Formula V. Subsequent reduction of the resultant lactol using standard reduction conditions for instance trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate TMSOTf and triethylsilane provides compounds of Formula II. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 4 refers to the preparation of compounds of Formula III wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. Isoxazolidines of Formula VI which may be obtained via the chemistry depicted in Scheme 6 utilizing a benzyloxymethyl group in place of R are subjected to reducing conditions for instance zinc in acetic acid affording compounds of Formula VII. The amino alcohols VII are treated with an isothiocyanate for instance benzoyl isothiocyanate to provide thioureas of Formula VIII. Cyclization is induced using strong acid including for instance sulfuric acid or alternatively standard Mitsunobu conditions to give compounds of Formula IX. Cleavage of the benzyl ether under standard conditions for instance using boron trichloride provides alcohols of Formula X. The oxidation of compounds of Formula X can be affected by a number of standard oxidation protocols for instance using Dess Martin periodinane or sulfur trioxide pyridine with dimethyl sulfoxide Parikh Doering conditions . Aldehydes of Formula XI are subjected to basic conditions for instance potassium carbonate in acetonitrile and trapped using an appropriate anhydride for instance acetic anhydride to afford protected enol ethers of Formula XII wherein Pis an acyl group. Oxidative cleavage of the resulting enol moiety using standard conditions including for instance ruthenium chloride and sodium periodate affords lactones of Formula III. Compound III can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Schemes 2 or 3 and 1.

Scheme 5 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. Isoxazolidines of Formula XIII are subjected to reducing conditions for instance zinc in acetic acid affording compounds of Formula XIV. The resulting amino alcohols are treated with an isothiocyanate for instance benzoyl isothiocyanate to provide thioureas of Formula XV. Cyclization is induced using strong acid including for instance sulfuric acid or alternatively standard Mitsunobu conditions to give compounds of Formula II. Compound II can be directly converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 6 refers to the preparation of compounds XIII. Homoallylic alcohol XVI is alkylated with 2 bromo 1 1 dimethoxyethane under basic conditions such as treatment with potassium hydride to provide the corresponding ether XVII. The acetal is cleaved under acidic conditions aqueous HCl as an example to give aldehyde XVIII. Condensation with a hydroxylamine salt such as hydroxylamine sulfate provides a geometric mixture of the corresponding oxime XIX. Cycloaddition to form isoxazoline XX may be carried out by treatment of oxime XIX with an oxidizing agent such as sodium hypochlorite or N chlorosuccinimide. Reaction of isoxazoline XX with an appropriate arylmetallic reagent for instance an aryllithium such as 2 4 difluorophenyllithium or the corresponding aryl Grignard reagent at low temperature e.g. 78 C. yields compounds of Formula XIII. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the stereochemistry of addition of the arylmetallic reagent is determined by the stereochemistry of the adjacent methine center yielding a racemic mixture of cis fused diastereomers which can be converted into compounds of Formula I according to the methods of Schemes 5 and 1.

The following illustrate the synthesis of various compounds of the present invention. Additional compounds within the scope of this invention may be prepared using the methods illustrated in these Examples either alone or in combination with techniques generally known in the art.

Experiments were generally carried out under inert atmosphere nitrogen or argon particularly in cases where oxygen or moisture sensitive reagents or intermediates were employed. Commercial solvents and reagents were generally used without further purification including anhydrous solvents where appropriate generally AcroSeal products from Acros Organics or DriSolv products from EMD Chemicals. . Products were generally dried under vacuum before being carried on to further reactions or submitted for biological testing. Mass spectrometry data is reported from either liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS atmospheric pressure chemical ionization APCI or gas chromatography mass spectrometry GCMS instrumentation. Chemical shifts for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR data are expressed in parts per million ppm referenced to residual peaks from the deuterated solvents employed.

For syntheses referencing procedures in other Examples or Methods reaction conditions length of reaction and temperature may vary. In general reactions were followed by thin layer chromatography or mass spectrometry and subjected to work up when appropriate. Purifications may vary between experiments in general solvents and the solvent ratios used for eluents gradients were chosen to provide appropriate Rs or retention times.

To a solution of 2R 2 benzyloxy methyl oxirane 167 g 1.02 mol in tetrahydrofuran 2 L was added copper I iodide 11.62 g 61.02 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes then cooled to 78 C. A solution of vinylmagnesium bromide 1 M in tetrahydrofuran 1.12 L 1.12 mol was added drop wise over 1 hour while the reaction temperature was maintained below 70 C. Upon completion of the addition the cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was left to stir at room temperature for 1 hour then quenched by slow addition of aqueous ammonium chloride solution 200 mL . After dilution with aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1.5 L and ethyl acetate 1.5 L the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 1 L and the combined organic layers were washed with aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1.5 L dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Three batches of this reaction were carried out and combined to give the product as an orange oil. Yield 600 g 3.1 mol quantitative. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 7.40 m 5H 5.78 5.90 m 1H 5.08 5.17 m 2H 4.57 s 2H 3.86 3.94 m 1H 3.53 dd J 9.6 3.3 Hz 1H 3.39 dd J 9.6 7.4 Hz 1H 2.26 2.34 m 3H .

This reaction was carried out in two identical experiments. To a 0 C. suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 124.8 g 3.12 mol in tetrahydrofuran 1 L was added a solution of 2R 1 benzyloxy pent 4 en 2 ol C1 200 g 1.04 mol in tetrahydrofuran 500 mL . The reaction was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature whereupon 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 528 g 2.68 mol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 18 hours. The mixture was carefully quenched with water 2 300 mL and the combined experiments were concentrated in vacuo. The aqueous residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 5 L and water 5 L . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 L dried and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography Eluent 20 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 300 g 0.97 mol 47 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.26 7.37 m 5H 5.78 5.90 m 1H 5.01 5.13 m 2H 4.61 t J 5.3 Hz 1H 4.55 s 2H 3.48 3.74 m 9H 2.30 2.36 m 2H 1.22 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.21 t J 7.0 Hz 3H .

A solution of 2R 2 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl pent 4 en 1 yl oxymethyl benzene C2 234 g 0.759 mol in formic acid 400 mL and water 100 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. As LCMS analysis revealed a small amount of remaining starting material formic acid 50 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for a further 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethanol 1 L and water 400 mL . Hydroxylamine sulfate 435 g 2.65 mol and sodium acetate 217 g 2.64 mol were added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 500 mL and water 1 L and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 500 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as an orange oil. By H NMR this material consisted of a roughly 1 1 mixture of oxime isomers. Yield 234 g which was taken directly to the following step. LCMS m z 250.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.52 t J 5.5 Hz and 6.96 t J 3.6 Hz total 1H 7.28 7.39 m 5H 5.74 5.87 m 1H 5.04 5.14 m 2H 4.55 and 4.56 2 s total 2H 4.45 4.55 m and 4.27 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 5.4 Hz and 4.21 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 5.6 Hz total 2H 2.30 2.37 m 2H .

An aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 14.5 solution 600 mL was added drop wise to a 0 C. solution of 2 2R 1 benzyloxy pent 4 en 2 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C3 224 g from the previous step 0.759 mol in dichloromethane 1 L while the internal temperature was maintained below 15 C. After completion of the addition the reaction mixture was left to stir at 0 C. for 1.5 hours then diluted with water 1 L and dichloromethane 500 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 500 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 500 mL water 500 mL and again with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 500 mL . They were subsequently dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 25 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a colorless oil. The indicated relative stereochemistry of compound C4 was assigned based on nuclear Overhauser enhancement studies which revealed an interaction between the methine protons on carbons 3a and 5. Yield 85.3 g 345 mmol 45 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 248.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.27 7.40 m 5H 4.77 d J 13.5 Hz 1H 4.54 4.65 m 3H 4.22 dd J 13.5 1 Hz 1H 3.79 dd J 11.7 8.0 Hz 1H 3.69 3.76 m 1H 3.57 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 5.9 Hz 1H 3.49 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 4.3 Hz 1H 3.39 3.5 m 1H 2.20 ddd J 12.9 6.5 1.6 Hz 1H 1.51 1.62 m 1H .

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 60.1 mL 474 mmol was added to a solution of 3aR 5R 5 benzyloxy methyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C4 50.0 g 202 mmol in a 1 1 mixture of toluene and diisopropyl ether 2 L at an internal temperature of 76 C. The reaction was stirred at this temperature for 30 minutes then treated with 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 27.1 mL 226 mmol . While the reaction temperature was maintained at 76 to 71 C. n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 85.7 mL 214 mmol was slowly added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 76 C. for 1.5 hours then was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1 L and partitioned between water 1 L and ethyl acetate 750 mL . After the heterogeneous mixture warmed to room temperature the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 250 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 550 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 70 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 48.14 g 133.2 mmol 66 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.94 ddd J 9 9 7 Hz 1H 7.28 7.40 m 5H 6.87 6.93 m 1H 6.80 ddd J 12.0 8.6 2.4 Hz 1H 4.60 AB quartet J 12.1 Hz 21.4 Hz 2H 4.14 br dd J 12.8 1.3 Hz 1H 3.82 3.90 m 2H 3.72 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 3.54 3.60 m 2H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.3 4.1 Hz 1H 3.04 3.13 m 1H 1.86 ddd J 14.0 7.0 2.0 Hz 1H 1.49 1.61 m 1H .

 3aR 5R 7aS 5 Benzyloxy methyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C5 48.1 g 133 mmol was dissolved in acetic acid 444 mL and treated with zinc powder 113 g 1.73 mol . The reaction mixture which had warmed to 40 C. was allowed to cool to room temperature and stir for 16 hours. Insoluble material was removed via filtration through a diatomaceous earth pad and the pad was washed with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined filtrates were neutralized with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 2.5 L and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 L dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as a thick yellow oil which was used in the following reaction without additional purification. Yield 48.7 g assumed quantitative. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.62 7.80 br m 1H 7.28 7.39 m 5H 6.94 7.06 m 1H 6.83 ddd J 12.7 8.5 2.6 Hz 1H 4.61 AB quartet upfield doublet is broadened J 12.2 Hz 30.5 Hz 2H 4.22 dd J 11.6 2.2 Hz 1H 3.83 3.92 br m 1H 3.62 3.73 br m 1H 3.56 dd J 10.2 3.5 Hz 1H 3.34 3.41 m 1H 2.26 2.43 br m 1H 2.00 2.17 br m 1H 1.65 ddd J 14.1 4.5 2.5 Hz 1H .

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 17.8 mL 132 mmol was added to a solution of 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C6 48.7 g 134 mmol in dichloromethane 1.34 L and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 18 hours. Removal of solvent in vacuo afforded the product as a white solid which was used without additional purification. Yield 72.2 g assumed quantitative. LCMS m z 527.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 7.89 7.93 m 2H 7.62 7.67 m 1H 7.50 7.56 m 2H 7.42 7.54 br m 1H 7.31 7.36 m 2H 7.17 7.28 m 3H 6.86 6.98 m 2H 4.57 AB quartet J 11.9 Hz 11.8 Hz 2H 3.84 3.91 m 1H 3.64 br dd half of ABX pattern J 10.6 6.0 Hz 1H 3.58 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.6 3.8 Hz 1H 3.44 3.54 br m 1H 2.32 2.59 br m 1H 1.82 2.06 m 2H .

Pyridine 11.0 mL 137 mmol was added to a solution of N 3S 4R 6R 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl carbamothioylbenzamide C7 19.00 g 36.08 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL and the resulting solution was cooled to 50 to 60 C. Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 12.1 mL 71.9 mmol in dichloromethane 50 mL was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was gradually warmed to 5 C. over 3 hours. Water was added and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 20 to 40 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a yellow foam. Yield 15.51 g 30.50 mmol 85 . LCMS m z 509.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.23 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.37 7.57 br m 4H 7.24 7.36 m 5H 6.85 6.97 m 2H 4.58 AB quartet upfield signals are slightly broadened J 11.9 Hz 23.5 Hz 2H 4.17 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.90 3.97 m 1H 3.83 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.64 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 6.4 Hz 1H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.4 Hz 1H 3.11 3.21 br m 1H 3.02 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.64 br d J 13 Hz 1H 1.92 2.05 br m 1H 1.71 br d J 13 Hz 1H .

Boron trichloride 1 M solution in heptane 89.7 mL 89.7 mmol was added to a 0 C. solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C8 15.20 g 29.89 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL . After 15 minutes the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. Methanol 50 mL was then added first drop wise Caution violent reaction and then at a steady rate while the interior of the flask was flushed with nitrogen gas. The mixture was heated at reflux for 30 minutes cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was again dissolved in methanol stirred and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting material was taken up in dichloromethane and washed sequentially with 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatographic purification on silica gel Gradient 0 to 3 methanol in ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow foam. Yield 11.97 g 28.60 mmol 96 . LCMS m z 419.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.13 d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.41 7.49 m 3H 7.02 7.11 m 2H 4.13 dd J 11.9 1.8 Hz 1H 3.90 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.72 3.80 m 1H 3.59 d J 5.1 Hz 2H 3.14 3.24 br m 1H 2.96 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.1 4.1 Hz 1H 2.75 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.1 2.7 Hz 1H 1.80 1.92 m 1H 1.70 ddd J 13.4 4.2 2.4 Hz 1H .

Tetrapropylammonium perruthenate 1.09 g 3.10 mmol was added to a mixture of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 hydroxymethyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide P1 13.0 g 31.1 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine N oxide monohydrate 25.2 g 186 mmol in acetonitrile 207 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for 90 minutes at room temperature. After addition of 2 propanol 100 mL it was stirred for an additional 2 hours and then concentrated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and 0.5 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The organic layer was extracted twice with 0.5 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and the combined aqueous layers were acidified to a pH of approximately 1 with 2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid then extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined ethyl acetate layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure the residue was dissolved in dichloromethane washed with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 20 methanol in dichloromethane provided the product as a reddish solid. Yield 12.36 g 28.58 mmol 92 . LCMS m z 433.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.09 8.13 m 2H 7.52 7.57 m 1H 7.43 7.51 m 3H 7.03 7.11 m 2H 4.35 dd J 11.2 3.4 Hz 1H 4.19 dd J 12.0 1.4 Hz 1H 3.97 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.20 3.27 m 1H 2.96 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.1 4.0 Hz 1H 2.78 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 2.8 Hz 1H 2.03 2.15 m 2H .

Triethylamine 16.7 mL 120 mmol was added in one rapid portion to a solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 hydroxymethyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide P1 4.18 g 10.0 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL that was immersed in a room temperature water bath. After 5 minutes anhydrous dimethyl sulfoxide 9.94 mL 140 mmol was rapidly added followed immediately by solid sulfur trioxide pyridine complex 98 13.0 g 80.0 mmol in a single portion. The resulting solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 6.5 hours then diluted with a 1 1 mixture of water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 200 mL and stirred for 10 minutes. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 200 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with water 100 mL washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane gave the product as a white solid. Yield 2.81 g 6.75 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 414.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.71 s 1H 8.20 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.36 7.49 m 3H 6.86 6.99 m 2H 4.23 br d J 12.1 Hz 1H 4.12 dd J 12.1 2.9 Hz 1H 3.94 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 3.13 3.22 m 1H 3.04 dd J 13.1 4.1 Hz 1H 2.69 dd J 13.1 2.9 Hz 1H 2.02 2.14 m 1H 1.92 1.99 m 1H .

To a solution of 4aR 6R 8aS 2 benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazine 6 carboxylic acid P2 3.0 g 6.9 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 80 mL and acetic acid 15 mL was added lead IV acetate 19.3 g 43.5 mmol . After stirring at room temperature for 18 hours the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane affording the product as a white solid. Yield 1.38 g 3.09 mmol 45 . LCMS m z 445.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.21 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.36 7.49 m 3H 6.87 6.98 m 2H 6.31 br d J 3 Hz 1H 4.55 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.59 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.44 3.52 m 1H 3.05 dd J 13.0 4.2 Hz 1H 2.63 dd J 13.0 2.8 Hz 1H 2.38 2.48 m 1H 2.19 s 3H 1.80 br dd J 14 4 Hz 1H .

The reaction was carried out in two batches. To a solution of 4aR 6S 8aS 2 benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl acetate C9 2.5 g 5.6 mmol 1.66 g 3.72 mmol in acetonitrile 25 mL 15 mL was added trifluoroacetic acid 6 mL 4 mL at room temperature followed by pyridinium chlorochromate 6.02 g 28 mmol 3.98 g 18.5 mmol in one portion. The resulting reaction mixtures were stirred at room temperature for 3.5 hours then combined and poured slowly into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 350 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 400 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a white foam containing residual dichloromethane. Corrected yield 2.51 g 6.24 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 403.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.03 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.56 7.62 m 1H 7.47 7.54 m 2H 7.31 7.39 m 1H 6.88 6.99 m 2H 4.90 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 4.29 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 3.39 3.48 m 1H 2.94 3.05 m 2H 2.84 dd half of ABX pattern J 18.5 7.6 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 13.2 3.1 Hz 1H .

A mixture of N 4aR 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 oxo 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C10 2.51 g 6.24 mmol azeotroped with toluene 2 10 mL and N 5 chloropyridin 2 yl 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Comins reagent 96 10.2 g 24.9 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL was cooled to 78 C. Potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide 0.5 M solution in toluene 62.4 mL 31.2 mmol was added drop wise over 20 minutes and the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1.1 hours after addition of aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 50 mL it was allowed to warm to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 75 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a pale yellow solid. Yield 2.43 g 4.55 mmol 73 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 br d J 8 Hz 2H 7.55 7.60 m 1H 7.49 br dd J 8 7 Hz 2H 7.39 ddd J 9 9 6.4 Hz 1H 6.94 7.00 m 1H 6.90 ddd J 12.4 8.4 2.6 Hz 1H 4.82 d J 10.7 Hz 1H 4.77 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 4.17 d J 10.7 Hz 1H 3.63 3.69 m 1H 2.97 dd J 13.3 3.1 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 13.3 4.3 Hz 1H .

Acetic anhydride 1.5 mL 16 mmol was added to a slurry of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 formyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide P3 661 mg 1.59 mmol and potassium carbonate 1.34 g 9.70 mmol in acetonitrile 16 mL . After the flask had been flushed with nitrogen the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 2.5 hours then allowed to cool to room temperature and stir for 18 hours. The slurry was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered the solids were washed with ethyl acetate and the combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. Purification using silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid which was assigned as a roughly 4 1 mixture of geometric isomers from the H NMR. Yield 437 mg 0.953 mmol 60 . LCMS m z 459.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl major isomer only 8.09 8.32 br s 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.39 7.45 m 3H 6.85 6.99 m 2H 6.75 d J 1.9 Hz 1H 4.31 dd J 11.7 1.2 Hz 1H 4.02 d J 11.8 Hz 1H 3.13 3.26 m 1H 2.97 3.07 m 1H 2.70 2.87 m 2H 2.19 s 3H 2.17 2.25 m 1H .

A solution of 4aR 8aS 2 benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4a 5 8 8a tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 4H ylidene methyl acetate C11 430 mg 0.938 mmol ruthenium III chloride 5.8 mg 28 mol and sodium periodate 98.5 407 mg 1.87 mmol in acetonitrile 0.5 mL and a 1 1 mixture of 1 2 dichloroethane and water 5 mL was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature then allowed to stand for 18 hours without stirring. After dilution with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution 25 mL the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 237 mg 0.589 mmol 63 . LCMS m z 403.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 br d J 8 Hz 2H 7.49 7.54 m 1H 7.43 br dd J 8 7 Hz 2H 7.32 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.3 Hz 1H 6.81 6.93 m 2H 4.85 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 4.24 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 3.35 3.44 m 1H 2.87 2.97 m 2H 2.80 dd half of ABX pattern J 18.7 7.5 Hz 1H 2.63 dd J 13.1 3.1 Hz 1H .

The product was obtained according to the method used for synthesis of 2R 1 benzyloxy pent 4 en 2 ol C1 in Preparation P1 except that 1 propenylmagnesium bromide was used in place of vinylmagnesium bromide. The product was obtained as a brown oil which was used without further purification by H NMR this material consisted of a 1 1 mixture of geometric isomers. Yield 140 g 0.679 mol 100 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 7.42 m 5H 5.39 5.67 m 2H 4.57 s 2H 3.80 3.92 m 1H 3.48 3.57 m 1H 3.35 3.43 m 1H 2.36 2.50 br m 1H 2.24 2.33 m 1H 2.17 2.24 m 1H 1.68 br d J 6 Hz and 1.64 br d J 7 Hz total 3H .

 2R 1 Benzyloxy hex 4 en 2 ol C12 150 g 0.73 mol was converted to the product according to the method used for synthesis of 2R 2 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl pent 4 en 1 yl oxymethyl benzene C2 in Preparation P1 except that the initial combination of reagents was carried out at 0 C. The product was obtained as a brown oil 400 g 0.73 mol which was used for the next step without further purification. By H NMR analysis this material contained a roughly 1 1 mixture of geometric isomers. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks for product 7.25 7.38 m 5H 5.38 5.60 m 2H 4.55 and 4.55 2 s total 2H 2.22 2.37 m 2H 1.60 1.68 m 3H .

To a solution of 2R 2 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl hex 4 en 1 yl oxymethyl benzene C13 350 g from the previous step 0.64 mol in tetrahydrofuran 1.4 L was added aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 700 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 75 C. for 1 hour. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the aqueous residue was extracted with ethyl acetate 2.0 L . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 3 500 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was obtained as a pale brown oil 210 g 0.64 mol which was taken directly to the following step.

To a mixture of 2R 1 benzyloxy hex 4 en 2 yl oxyacetaldehyde C14 207 g 0.63 mol and sodium acetate 342 g 4.17 mol in aqueous ethanol 2 1 ethanol water 2.1 L was added hydroxylamine hydrochloride 207 g 2.98 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 18 hours then concentrated in vacuo and extracted with ethyl acetate 2.0 L . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by chromatography on silica gel Eluent ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford the product as a brown oil. By H NMR this was assigned as a mixture of geometric isomers at both the oxime and olefin functional groups. Yield 117 g 0.444 mol 70 over three steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.42 7.48 m and 6.88 6.92 m total 1H 7.20 7.36 m 5H 5.29 5.61 m 2H 4.48 4.54 m and 4.41 4.45 m total 3H 2.13 2.32 m 2H 1.54 1.65 m 3H .

An aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 6.15 solution 6.6 L was slowly added to a solution of 2 2R 1 benzyloxy hex 4 en 2 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C15 660 g 2.51 mol and triethylamine 19 g 0.19 mol in dichloromethane 6.6 L at 25 C. After completion of the addition the reaction mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 30 minutes. The organic layer was washed with water 3 3 L dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via chromatography on silica gel Eluent ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided 3S 3aR 5R 5 benzyloxy methyl 3 methyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C16 as a white solid. Yield 90 g 0.34 mol 14 . The indicated relative stereochemistry of compound C16 was assigned based on nuclear Overhauser enhancement studies which revealed interactions of the methine proton on carbon 3a with both the protons of the methyl group on carbon 3 and the methine proton on carbon 5. LCMS m z 261.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.24 7.39 m 5H 4.69 d J 13.7 Hz 1H 4.57 AB quartet J 12.2 Hz 13.8 Hz 2H 4.13 4.25 m 2H 3.62 3.70 m 1H 3.55 dd half of ABX pattern J 10 6 Hz 1H 3.47 dd half of ABX pattern J 10 4 Hz 1H 2.93 br ddd J 11 11 7 Hz 1H 2.11 br dd J 12.6 6.8 Hz 1H 1.45 1.56 m 1H 1.45 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

Also obtained from the chromatographic separation was 3R 3aR 5R 5 benzyloxy methyl 3 methyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C17 as a brown oil. Yield 126 g 0.482 mol 19 . The indicated relative stereochemistry of compound C17 was assigned based on nuclear Overhauser enhancement studies which revealed interactions of the methine proton on carbon 3a with both the methine proton on carbon 3 and the methine proton on carbon 5. LCMS m z 261.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.26 7.39 m 5H 4.76 4.86 m 1H 4.75 d J 13.5 Hz 1H 4.58 AB quartet J 12.2 Hz 12.4 Hz 2H 4.19 dd J 13.5 1.2 Hz 1H 3.63 3.70 m 1H 3.57 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 6.0 Hz 1H 3.49 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 4.2 Hz 1H 3.36 br ddd J 11.4 11.4 6.3 Hz 1H 1.86 ddd J 12.8 6.4 1.2 Hz 1H 1.55 1.66 m 1H 1.16 d J 6.6 Hz 3H .

The product obtained as a yellow oil was prepared from 3S 3aR 5R 5 benzyloxy methyl 3 methyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C16 according to the general procedure for the synthesis of 3aR 5R 7aS 5 benzyloxy methyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C5 in Preparation P1. Yield 21.5 g 57.2 mmol 48 . LCMS m z 376.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.98 ddd J 9.1 9.1 6.8 Hz 1H 7.28 7.40 m 5H 6.87 6.93 m 1H 6.80 ddd J 11.9 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 4.60 AB quartet J 12.1 Hz 19.9 Hz 2H 3.99 4.06 m 1H 3.97 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.9 2.0 Hz 1H 3.80 3.88 m 2H 3.56 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 6.3 Hz 1H 3.49 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.1 Hz 1H 2.81 2.87 m 1H 2.04 ddd J 14.2 7.6 2.8 Hz 1H 1.48 1.59 m 1H 0.79 d J 6.4 Hz 3H .

The product obtained as a yellow oil was prepared from 3S 3aR 5R 7aS 5 benzyloxy methyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl 3 methyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C18 according to the general procedure for the synthesis of 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C6 in Preparation P1. Yield 13.96 g 37.00 mmol 98 . LCMS m z 378.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.65 7.78 br m 1H 7.27 7.40 m 5H 6.93 7.02 br m 1H 6.80 ddd J 12.6 8.5 2.6 Hz 1H 4.06 dd J 11.7 2.2 Hz 1H 3.53 dd J 10.2 3.7 Hz 1H 2.50 2.61 br m 1H 1.62 ddd J 14 4 2.5 Hz 1H 0.89 d J 6.6 Hz 3H .

The product was prepared from 1 S 1 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethanol C19 according to the general procedure for the synthesis of N 3S 4R 6R 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl carbamothioylbenzamide C7 in Preparation P1. In this case after concentration of the reaction mixture in vacuo the residue was chromatographed on silica gel Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane to afford the product as a yellow foam. Yield 13.36 g 24.71 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 539.2 M H .

Diethyl azodicarboxylate 21.3 mL 136 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of triphenylphosphine 35.7 g 136 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 850 mL and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes before being cooled in an ice bath. A solution of N 3S 4R 6R 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 1S 1 hydroxyethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl carbamothioylbenzamide C20 24.5 g 45.3 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 115 mL was added drop wise to the reaction mixture which was then stirred for 1 hour under ice cooling. After concentration in vacuo the residue was loaded onto a silica gel column that had been equilibrated with dichloromethane and the column was eluted with 1 1 ethyl acetate heptane. Fractions containing product were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure the resulting material was triturated with 15 ethyl acetate in heptane and the solid was removed via filtration. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and chromatographed on silica gel Gradient 20 to 40 ethyl acetate in heptane affording the product as a white solid. Yield 17.23 g 32.97 mmol 73 . LCMS m z 523.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.23 br d J 6.5 Hz 2H 7.49 7.55 m 1H 7.36 7.48 m 3H 7.24 7.36 m 5H 6.84 6.96 m 2H 4.58 AB quartet J 12.0 Hz 25.0 Hz 2H 4.18 dd J 12.2 1.7 Hz 1H 3.87 3.94 m 1H 3.84 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.63 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 6.4 Hz 1H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.4 Hz 1H 3.23 3.31 m 1H 2.88 2.96 m 1H 1.61 1.79 m 2H 1.25 d J 6.9 Hz 3H .

The product was prepared from N 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 methyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C21 according to the general procedure for the synthesis of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 hydroxymethyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide P1 in Preparation P1. In this case the combined crude product from two similar reactions was triturated with dichloromethane rather than being purified by chromatography. The filtrate from the trituration was concentrated in vacuo and a second crop of material was obtained via a second trituration with dichloromethane affording the product in both cases as a white solid. Total yield 23.12 g 53.46 mmol 79 . LCMS m z 433.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.12 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.51 7.57 m 1H 7.40 7.49 m 3H 7.02 7.11 m 2H 4.15 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.91 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.71 3.78 m 1H 3.60 d J 5.2 Hz 2H 3.19 3.28 br m 1H 2.97 3.06 br m 1H 1.74 1.82 m 1H 1.49 1.62 m 1H 1.26 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

The product obtained as a pink white solid was prepared from N 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 hydroxymethyl 4 methyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide P5 according to the procedure for the synthesis of 4aR 6R 8aS 2 benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazine 6 carboxylic acid P2 in Preparation 2. Yield 2.92 g 6.54 mmol 95 . LCMS m z 447.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.08 8.12 m 2H 7.52 7.58 m 1H 7.41 7.49 m 3H 7.02 7.11 m 2H 4.34 dd J 12.1 2.7 Hz 1H 4.20 br d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.98 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.18 3.26 m 1H 3.06 ddd J 12.1 3.9 3.9 Hz 1H 2.15 ddd J 13.6 4.0 2.9 Hz 1H 1.71 1.83 m 1H 1.27 d J 6.8 Hz 3H .

To a solution of 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 2 benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 methyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazine 6 carboxylic acid C22 5.0 g 10.0 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 130 mL and acetic acid 25 mL was added lead IV acetate 31.2 g 70.4 mmol . After stirring at room temperature for 18 hours the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane affording the product as a white solid. Yield 2.75 g 5.98 mmol 50 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 8.20 br d J 7.0 Hz 2H 7.35 7.55 m 4H 6.87 7.01 m 2H 6.34 br d J 2.5 Hz 1H 4.55 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.59 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.21 3.31 m 2H 1.84 dd J 14.6 3.4 Hz 1H 1.26 d J 6.8 Hz 3H .

The reaction was carried out in two batches. To a solution of 4R 4aR 6S 8aS 2 benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 methyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl acetate C23 2.75 g 6.0 mmol in acetonitrile 30 mL was added trifluoroacetic acid 11.5 mL at room temperature followed by pyridinium chlorochromate 6.57 g 29.9 mmol in one portion. The resulting reaction mixtures were stirred at room temperature for 16 hours then combined and poured slowly into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 350 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 400 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a white foam containing residual dichloromethane. Yield 1.36 g 3.27 mmol 55 . LCMS m z 417.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.01 br s 2H 7.58 7.62 m 1H 7.49 7.53 m 2H 7.32 m 1H 6.88 7.01 m 2H 4.92 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 4.30 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 3.20 3.26 m 2H 2.78 2.81 m 2H 1.24 d J 6.9 Hz 3H .

A mixture of N 4R 4aR 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 methyl 6 oxo 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C24 1.36 g 3.27 mmol azeotroped with toluene 2 10 mL and N 5 chloropyridin 2 yl 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Comins reagent 96 5.34 g 13.1 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 53 mL was cooled to 78 C. Potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide 0.5 M solution in toluene 32.7 mL 16.3 mmol was added drop wise over 20 minutes and the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1.1 hours after addition of aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 30 mL it was allowed to warm to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a pale yellow solid. Yield 1.55 g 2.83 mmol 87 . LCMS m z 549.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.97 7.99 m 2H 7.56 7.60 m 1H 7.47 7.52 m 2H 7.35 td J 9.0 6.5 Hz 1H 6.87 6.97 m 2H 4.83 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 4.77 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 4.18 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 3.43 br d J 2.0 Hz 1H 3.12 qd J 7.0 2.4 Hz 1H 1.28 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

In the scheme above it is to be understood that the appropriately substituted boronic acid can have one Rgroup as depicted or up to three independently selected Rgroups. The final compounds can then correspondingly have between one and three Rgroups on the phenyl.

To the requisite aryl boronic acids 0.15 mmol 2.0 equiv in 2 dram vials was added a solution of 4aR 8aS 2 benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 8 8a tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate P4 40 mg 75 mol 1.0 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 1 mL . An aqueous 2 M solution of cesium carbonate 0.19 mL 0.38 mmol 5.0 equiv and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 3 mg 4 mol 0.05 equiv were added to each vial. The reactions were de gassed and shaken at 65 C. for 17 hours. The reaction mixtures were each partitioned between water 1.5 mL and ethyl acetate 2.4 mL and the organic layer was separated. The extraction was repeated twice and the organics from each individual reaction were combined and passed through solid phase extraction cartridges containing sodium sulfate 6 mL cartridge approximately 1 g bed weight . The filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. The crude residues 0.1 mmol 1 equiv were dissolved in 1 2 dichloroethane 0.25 mL and cooled in a dry ice box for 2 minutes. Triethylsilane 0.25 mL 1.5 mmol 15 equiv and trifluoroacetic acid 0.25 mL were added and the vials were shaken at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixtures were concentrated and each residue partitioned between a half saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate 1.5 mL and ethyl acetate 2.5 mL . The extraction was repeated twice and the organics from each individual reaction were combined and passed through solid phase extraction cartridges containing sodium sulfate 6 mL cartridge approximately 1 g bed weight . The filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. The crude residues 75 mol were dissolved in methanol 0.5 mL and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 13 L 85 mol 1 equiv was added. The reaction vials were shaken at 65 C. for 16 hours and then concentrated in vacuo. The organics from each individual reaction were combined and passed through solid phase extraction cartridges containing sodium sulfate 6 mL cartridge approximately 1 g bed weight . After concentration in vacuo dissolution in dimethyl sulfoxide 1 mL and filtration through a Waters Oasis filter plate to remove particulates purification was carried out via reversed phase HPLC Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 20 to 100 B or 5 to 100 B . See Table 1 for characterization data.

 4 Cyanophenyl boronic acid 55 mg 0.37 mmol 2.0 equiv was added to a solution of 4aR 8aS 2 benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 8 8a tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate P4 100 mg 0.19 mmol 1.0 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 1.5 mL . An aqueous 2 M solution of cesium carbonate 0.47 mL 0.935 mmol 5.0 equiv and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 6.4 mg 9 mol 0.05 equiv were added. The reaction was de gassed and stirred at 65 C. for 17 hours. The reaction mixture was partitioned between water 10 mL and ethyl acetate 20 mL and the organic layer separated. The extraction was repeated twice and the combined organics were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 64 mg 70 . LCMS m z 488.3 M H .

N 4aR 8aS 6 4 Cyanophenyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 8 8a tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C25 64 mg 0.13 mmol 1 equiv was dissolved in 1 2 dichloroethane 2.0 mL and cooled to 0 C. Triethylsilane 0.32 mL 2.0 mmol 15 equiv and trifluoroacetic acid 0.5 mL were added and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was neutralized by addition of a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The organics were combined dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 30 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 37 mg 58 . LCMS m z 490.3 M H . H NMR 400 mhz CDCL 8.24 d J 7.0 Hz 2H 7.63 7.66 m 2H 7.41 7.56 m 5H 6.90 7.01 m 2H 4.78 dd J 11.5 2.3 Hz 1H 4.33 dd J 12.3 1.6 Hz 1H 3.99 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.32 3.36 m 1H 3.07 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 12.9 2.7 Hz 1H 2.12 2.22 m 1H 1.91 1.96 m 1H .

N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 4 Cyanophenyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C26 37 mg 76 mol 1 equiv. was dissolved in methanol 1.9 mL and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 0.01 mL 0.06 mmol 0.8 equiv was added. The reaction was stirred at 80 C. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The organics were combined dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 27 mg 91 . LCMS m z 386.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.64 7.67 m 2H 7.53 7.55 m 2H 7.4 td J 9.0 6.7 Hz 1H 6.82 6.95 m 2H 4.73 dd J 11.4 2.2 Hz 1H 4.25 dd J 11.4 2.2 Hz 1H 4.00 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 3.11 3.17 m 1H 3.04 dd J 12.5 4.1 Hz 1H 2.66 dd J 12.5 2.9 Hz 1H 1.95 2.05 m 1H 1.78 1.83 m 1H .

In the scheme above it is to be understood that the appropriately substituted boronic acid can have one Rgroup as depicted or up to three independently selected Rgroups. The final compounds can then correspondingly have between one and three Rgroups on the phenyl.

 4R 4aR 8aS 2 Benzoylamino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 methyl 4 4a 8 8a tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate P6 was converted to the products using the method described for synthesis of C25 as in Example 31.

N 4R 4aR 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 methyl 6 phenyl 4 4a 8 8a tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamides C27 C29 were converted to the corresponding products using the method described for synthesis of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 4 cyanophenyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C26 as in Example 31.

N 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 4 methyl 6 phenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamides C30 C32 were converted to the corresponding products using the method described for synthesis of 4 4aR 6R 8aS 2 amino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl benzonitrile 31 as in Example 31. See Table 1A for characterizing data for examples 32 34.

Beta secretase BACE is one of the enzymes involved in the generation of the amyloid beta peptide found in the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer s Disease patients. This assay measures the inhibition of the beta secretase enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide.

A synthetic APP substrate that can be cleaved by beta secretase having N terminal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay beta secretase activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin GLTNIKTEEISEISY EVEFR C Oregon Green KK OH. The BACE1 enzyme is affinity purified material from conditioned media of CHO K1 cells that have been transfected with a soluble BACE construct BACE1deltaTM96His . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE1 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE1 is at a final concentration of 0.1 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of beta secretase enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic APP substrate.

H4 human neuroglioma cells over expressing the wild type human APPare treated for 18 hours with compound in a final concentration 1 DMSO. sAPP levels are measured using TMB ELISA with capture APP N terminal antibody Affinity BioReagents OMA1 03132 wild type sAPP specific reporter p192 Elan and tertiary anti rabbit HRP GE Healthcare .

This assay measures the inhibition of the BACE2 enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide. A synthetic substrate that can be cleaved by BACE2 having N terminal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay BACE2 activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin KEISEISYEVEFR C Oregon green KK OH. The BACE2 enzyme is available from Enzo Life Sciences Cat BML SE550 . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE2 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE2 is at a final concentration of 2.5 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of BACE2 enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic substrate.

