---

title: Systems and methods for in-device co-existence interference avoidance for dual connectivity
abstract: Systems and methods disclosed herein provide in-device co-existence interference avoidance for a wireless communication device in dual connectivity with a master node and a secondary node. Time-division multiplexing (TDM) assistance information sent by the wireless communication device is forwarded from the master node to the secondary node. The master node and/or the secondary node uses the TDM assistance information to determine a TDM solution for the in-device co-existence interference in the wireless communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509485&OS=09509485&RS=09509485
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09509485
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141224
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 990 645 filed May 8 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to wireless communication networks. Specifically this disclosure relates to systems and methods for in device co existence interference avoidance.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

Systems and methods disclosed herein provide in device co existence interference avoidance for a wireless communication device known as user equipment UE operating in dual connectivity in a heterogeneous wireless communication system. In third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE systems as discussed in detail below dual connectivity allows a UE to consume radio resources provided by at least two different 3GPP network nodes e.g. a master node and a secondary node connected to each other with non ideal backhaul e.g. an X2 interface . Due to signaling limitations and system frame number SFN timing offset between the master node and the secondary node current 3GPP systems do not provide in device co existence interference avoidance for UEs operating in dual connectivity.

As wireless communication becomes more and more popular at offices homes and schools different wireless technologies and applications may work to meet the demand for computing and communications at any time and or anywhere. For example a variety of wireless communication networks may co exist to provide a wireless environment with more computing and or communication capability greater mobility and or seamless roaming.

In particular wireless mobile communication technology may use various standards and protocols to transmit data. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include for example the 3GPP LTE standard the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi. In 3GPP radio access networks RANs in LTE systems the base station can include Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and or Radio Network Controllers RNCs in an E UTRAN which communicate with a UE.

Although each of the above mentioned wireless communication networks may support different usages simultaneous use of two or more of these technologies by a UE can cause interference or collisions resulting in impaired performance. For example a UE may be equipped with an LTE transceiver a Wifi or other wireless local area network WLAN transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver and global navigation satellite system GNSS receivers. Due to the extreme proximity of multiple radio transceivers within the same UE operating on adjacent frequencies or sub harmonic frequencies the interference power coming from a transmitter of the collocated radio may be much higher than the actual received power level of the desired signal for the receiver. This in device coexistence IDC interference may be difficult to avoid or reduce using filters.

To avoid or reduce IDC interference in certain 3GPP systems a UE may report IDC assistance information to an eNB. The IDC assistance information includes a list of E UTRA carriers suffering from IDC interference problems and the direction of the interference. Depending on the scenario the IDC assistance information may also include time division multiplexing TDM patterns or parameters to enable appropriate discontinuous reception DRX configuration for TDM solutions on the serving E UTRA carrier. TDM assistance information can be either DRX configuration parameters or a hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ bitmap. In DRX configuration parameter drx AssistanceInfo the field drx Offset depends on SFN timing. HARQ bitmap IDC SubframePattern depends on the duplex and uplink downlink UL DL configuration in case of time division duplexing TDD and is also related to SFN timing.

The 3GPP Technical Specification TS 36.331 V12.0.0 2013 12 TS 36.331 provides an example radio resource control RRC signaling message for IDC assistance information which is referred to as an InDeviceCoexIndication message and is shown below in abstract syntax notation one ASN.1 coding 

In a homogeneous 3GPP LTE system a downlink DL transmission may be a communication from a node e.g. eNB to a wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission may be a communication from the wireless device to the node. In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node may provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell may be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node.

Heterogeneous networks may be used to handle increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. Heterogeneous networks may include a layer of planned high power macro nodes macro eNBs or macro cells overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small cells small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that may be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs may generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node may be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes may be used to fill coverage holes within a macro node s geographic coverage area i.e. cell and at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas. Low power nodes may also be used to improve capacity in high use areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission.

As used herein the terms node and cell are both intended to be synonymous and refer to a wireless transmission point operable to communicate with multiple user equipment such as an eNB a low power node or other base station.

Dual connectivity refers to an operation where a given UE consumes radio resources provided by at least two different nodes connected with non ideal backhaul. For example is a block diagram of a communication network operating in dual connectivity according to one embodiment. The network includes a macro cell configured to establish a wireless connection to a UE using a first carrier frequency F and a small cell configured to establish a wireless connection to the UE using a second carrier frequency F. The macro cell and the small cell communicate with one another through a non ideal backhaul interface e.g. an X2 interface . The dual connectivity shown in provides inter node radio resource aggregation or inter site carrier aggregation to improve per user throughput. Dual connectivity allows mobility management to be maintained on the macro layer while aggregating small cells to provide extra user plane capacity to increase throughput. Radio bearers carrying the user data can either use resources of the macro cell only of the small cell only or can aggregate both depending on whether increased coverage offload or throughput is desired. Keeping the mobility anchor in the macro cell may help reduce signaling overhead toward the core network.

The nodes e.g. the macro cell and the small cell involved in dual connectivity for the UE may assume different roles which do not necessarily depend on the node s power class. For example one node may act as a master node and one or more additional nodes may act as secondary or slave nodes. Generally although not always the macro cell may perform the functions of a master eNB MeNB and the small cell may perform the functions of a secondary eNB SeNB . The MeNB terminates at least S1 MME which is an interface for a control plane protocol to a mobility management entity MME in the core network. Thus the MeNB acts as a mobility anchor for the UE toward the core network. A group of serving cells associate with the MeNB may be referred to herein as a master cell group MCG . The SeNB is an eNB which is not the MeNB that provides additional radio resources for the UE. A group of serving cells associated with SeNB may be referred to herein as a secondary cell group SCG .

In addition to communicating with the macro cell and the small cell in dual connectivity the UE shown in may also communicate with a wireless access point of a WLAN or other non 3GPP network through a wireless connection . The wireless connection may use for example a WiFi protocol. The UE includes a first transceiver not shown for the wireless connection and or the wireless connection and a second transceiver not shown for the wireless connection . As discussed above IDC interference may result from the simultaneous operation of the first transceiver and the second transceiver.

Certain embodiments provide IDC interference avoidance for one or more of the following example scenarios. In scenario A an IDC interference problem is experienced in the MCG only which corresponds to a case where the affectedCarrierFreqList of the InDeviceCoexIndication message discussed above includes frequencies of the MCG cells. In scenario B an IDC interference problem is experienced in SCG only which corresponds to a case where the affectedCarrierFreqList includes frequencies of the SCG cells. In scenario C an IDC interference problem is experienced in both the MCG and the SCG which corresponds to a case where the affectedCarrierFreqList includes frequencies of both the MCG cells and the SCG cells. An example of scenario C in LTE is when the MCG uses band 7 while the SCG uses band 40. 

Prior solutions of TDM assistance information in the IDC information do not take into account dual connectivity. As discussed above TDM assistance information can be either DRX configuration parameters or a HARQ bitmap. In DRX configuration parameter drx AssistanceInfo the field drx Offset depends on SFN timing. HARQ bitmap IDC SubframePattern depends on the duplex and UL DL configuration in case of time division duplexing TDD and is also related to SFN timing. Certain embodiments provide signaling and processes to account for SFN timing offset between the MeNB and the SeNB of dual connectivity.

The UE sends the MeNB in the MCG its capability information in a UECapabilityInformation message including an inDeviceCoexInd parameter as shown in . The inDeviceCoexInd parameter indicates that the UE supports in device coexistence. The MeNB replies with an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message which includes the idc Config parameter indicating whether the UE is allowed to send an IDC indication and or autonomous denial parameters for the MCG. The MeNB also sends the SeNB an SeNB Addition Request message which includes SCG ConfigInfo parameters. The SCG ConfigInfo parameters include IDC information e.g. an indication that the UE supports in device coexistence .

The SeNB replies to the requesting MeNB with an SeNB Addition Request Acknowledge message which includes SCG Configuration information. In certain embodiments the SCG Configuration information in the SeNB Addition Request Acknowledgement message includes an autonomous denial configuration parameters for the SCG. When the UE is configured for IDC interference avoidance the UE can autonomously deny LTE uplink UL transmission to protect the industrial scientific medical ISM band in rare cases if other solutions cannot be used. Configuration of autonomous denial provides the eNB scheduler with flexibility to trade off between the performance of LTE and ISM. Since the MeNB and the SeNB might have different strategies to configure autonomous denial parameters the MeNB and the SeNB can configure autonomous denial parameters independently.

Once the MeNB receives the SeNB Addition Request Acknowledge message the MeNB sends an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message to the UE which includes an idc Config parameter indicating whether the UE is allowed to send an IDC indication and or autonomous denial parameters for the SCG.

After the UE is configured for IDC interference avoidance in MCG and SCG at block the UE performs internal measurements and or an internal assessment to determine the impact of the in device co existence interference and whether the UE can resolve the issue by itself. If the UE cannot resolve the interference by itself the UE sends an InDeviceCoexIndication message to the MeNB . The InDeviceCoexIndication message may include assistance information for frequency division multiplexing FDM and or TDM. If the in device interference problem is in MCG only the MeNB may determine a solution to the interference problem without involving the SeNB and sends an IDC Response message to the UE with either an FDM solution e.g. handover or SCell release or a TDM solution e.g. DRX parameters for the MCG.

If however the in device interference problem is also or only in the SCG the MeNB sends to the SeNB an SeNB Modification Request message including SCG Config Info parameters with information that the SeNB uses at block to make a decision for interference resolution in the SCG. The SeNB passes to the MeNB an SeNB Modification Request Acknowledge message that includes SCG Configuration parameters indicating FDM and or TDM solutions for the SCG. The MeNB includes the SeNB s FDM or TDM solution in the IDC Response message to the UE for the SCG.

In certain embodiments disclosed below the InDeviceCoexIndication message includes enhancements for DRX configuration parameters e.g. the information element IE drx AssistanceInfo shown in the example message above for dual connectivity. In other embodiments the InDeviceCoexIndication message includes enhancements for HARQ bitmap patterns e.g. the IE IDC SubframePatternList shown in the example message above .

As discussed above the InDeviceCoexIndication message shown in may include assistance information for frequency division multiplexing FDM and or TDM. For FDM the affectedCarrierFreqList in the InDeviceCoexIndication message may specify the affected frequencies corresponding to the MCG and or the SCG. For TDM however the drx Offset reported in the InDeviceCoexIndication message is not the same for MCG and SCG due to the SFN timing offset discussed above. Thus in one embodiment TDM assistance information with enhanced DRX configuration parameters includes a DRX starting offset according to MCG SFN timing. In another embodiment TDM assistance information with enhanced DRX configuration parameters includes a DRX starting offset according to SCG SFN timing.

In the example shown in however the InDeviceCoexIndication message includes a selected DRX starting offset IE drx Offset reported according to MCG SFN timing regardless of whether the UE detects the IDC problem in the MCG or the SCG. Thus for example if there is an IDC problem in the SeNB the UE sends the RRC message InDeviceCoexIndication with the drx Offset according to MCG SFN timing. Then the MeNB sends a message forwarding the drx Offset according to MCG SFN timing to the SeNB . The message in certain embodiments may simply be a copy of the InDeviceCoexIndication message received from the UE .

Based on an SFN timing offset between the MeNB and the SeNB the SeNB at block makes a decision for interference resolution. In other words the SeNB deduces a suitable timing to configure DRX in SCG such that the IDC problem can be resolved. The SeNB passes to the MeNB an SeNB Modification Request Acknowledge message that includes SCG Configuration parameters including the DRX configuration parameters for the TDM solutions for the SCG. The MeNB includes the SeNB s TDM solution in the IDC Response message to the UE for the SCG.

In the examples shown in however the InDeviceCoexIndication message includes a selected DRX starting offset IE drx Offset reported according to the SFN timing of the cell group with the IDC problem. In the IDC problem is in the SCG. Thus the InDeviceCoexIndication message in includes a drx Offset reported according to SCG SFN timing. The MeNB sends a message forwarding the drx Offset according to SCG SFN timing to the SeNB . At block the SeNB uses the drx Offset according to SCG SFN timing to make a decision for interference resolution. The SeNB passes to the MeNB an SeNB Modification Request Acknowledge message that includes SCG Configuration parameters including the DRX configuration parameters for the TDM solutions for the SCG. The MeNB includes the SeNB s TDM solution in the IDC Response message to the UE for the SCG.

In addition or in other embodiments that report the DRX starting offset according to the SFN timing of the cell group with the IDC problem if there are IDC problems in both the MCG and the SCG the UE is configured to report the selected DRX starting offset according to the SFN timing of the MCG.

In for example the IDC problem detected by the UE is in both the MCG and the SCG. Thus the UE sends the RRC message InDeviceCoexIndication with the drx Offset according to MCG SFN timing. The MeNB sends a message forwarding the drx Offset according to MCG SFN timing to the SeNB . At block the MeNB determines the suitable timing to configure DRX in MCG such that the IDC problem in the MCG may be resolved e.g. the MeNB makes a decision for interference resolution in the MCG . At block based on the SFN timing offset between the MeNB and the SeNB the SeNB determines the suitable timing to configure DRX in the SCG such that the IDC problem in the SCG may be resolved e.g. the SeNB makes a decision for interference resolution in the SCG . The SeNB passes to the MeNB an SeNB Modification Request Acknowledge message that includes SCG Configuration parameters including the DRX configuration parameters for the TDM solutions for the SCG. The MeNB includes the MeNB s TDM solution and the SeNB s TDM solution in the IDC Response message to the UE for MCG and SCG resolution.

As discussed above in other embodiments the TDM assistance information includes a HARQ bitmap which depends on the duplex and UL DL configuration and is also related to SFN timing. illustrate flow charts of example methods for in device co existence interference mitigation using HARQ bitmaps according to certain embodiments. In the illustrated method includes an MeNB receiving HARQ bitmap patterns from a UE according to a cell group with an IDC problem. The UE may send the HARQ bitmap patterns to the MeNB in the IE IDC SubframePatternList in the example RRC InDeviceCoexIndication message shown above. If there is an IDC problem in the MCG then HARQ bitmap patterns IE IDC SubframePatternList are reported according to the configuration e.g. duplex TDD UL DL configuration in the MCG. If there is an IDC problem in the SCG then HARQ bitmap patterns IE IDC SubframePatternList are reported according to the configuration e.g. duplex TDD UL DL configuration in the SCG.

Based on the received HARQ bitmap patterns the MeNB determines whether the IDC problem is in the MCG or the SCG. For example the MeNB may examine the IE affectedCarrierFreqList to know whether HARQ bitmap patterns IE IDC SubframePatternList are reported for the MCG or the SCG. If the MeNB determines that the IDC problem is in the MCG the MeNB configures the DRX parameters in the MCG for interference resolution based on the received HARQ bitmap patterns. If the MeNB determines that the IDC problem is in the SCG the MeNB forwards the HARQ bitmap patterns to the SeNB and the SeNB configures the DRX parameters in the SCG for interference resolution based on the received HARQ bitmap patterns.

In a HARQ bitmap pattern IE IDC SubframePattern is reported according to the cell group with IDC problem. In addition or in other embodiments the UE can report multiple HARQ bitmap patterns IE IDC SubframePattern within the IE IDC SubframePatternList. The method shown in corresponds to when there is only an IDC problem in either the MCG or the SCG. However when there is an IDC problem in both the MCG and the SCG reporting multiple HARQ bitmap patterns may be useful when the length of SubframePattern is different for the MCG and the SCG. For example when the MCG uses TDD configuration 0 e.g. length of SubframePattern is 70 and the SCG uses configuration 1 e.g. length of SubframePattern is 10 the UE can report both subframeConfig0 for the MCG and subframeConfig1 5 for the SCG . The MeNB knows that subframeConfig0 is for the MCG and configures DRX accordingly. The MeNB forwards the RRC InDeviceCoexIndication message to the SeNB. The SeNB knows that subframeConfig1 5 is for the SCG and configure DRX accordingly.

For example in the method shown in the MeNB receives an IDC indication message from the UE including a first HARQ bitmap pattern and a second HARQ bitmap pattern. The MeNB forwards the IDC indication message to the SeNB. Based on a predetermined first subframe pattern length the MeNB selects the first HARQ bitmap to configure DRX parameters in the MCG for interference resolution. Based on a predetermined second subframe pattern length the SeNB selects the second HARQ bitmap to configure DRX parameters in the SCG for interference resolution.

In other embodiments the UE reports separate TDM assistance information for the MCG and the SCG. In certain such embodiments the example RRC message InDeviceCoexIndication shown above may include both the IE tdm AssistanceInfo and a new IE tdm AssistanceInfoSCG so that the UE can report TDM assistance information for the SCG. For example illustrates a flow chart of a method for in device co existence interference mitigation according to one embodiment. The method includes the UE sending an RRC message to the MeNB including separate TDM assistance information for the MCG and the SCG. The MeNB forwards the RRC message to the SeNB. Based on the TDM assistance information for the MCG the MeNB configures DRX parameters in MCG for interference resolution. Based on the TDM assistance information for the SCG the SeNB configures DRX parameters in the SCG for interference resolution.

Example 1 is a UE that includes a first transceiver a second transcevier and a processor. The first transceiver is to communicate with a first node in a MCG in a 3GPP LTE wireless network. The second transceiver to communicate with a second node in a SCG in the 3GPP LTE wireless network. The UE is configured to operate in dual connectivity with both the first node and the second node. The processor is configured to determine that at least one carrier frequency for communication with the SCG through the second transceiver is affected by IDC interference. The processor is configured to send to the first node through the first transceiver a first message comprising TDM assistance information corresponding to the at least one carrier frequency of the SCG.

In Example 2 the processor of Example 1 is further configure to receive through the first transceiver a second message comprising a TDM solution for avoiding or reducing the IDC interference in the SCG.

In Example 3 the first message of any of Examples 1 2 includes a RRC message including one or more DRX parameters.

In Example 4 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 1 3 includes a requested DRX starting offset reported according to MCG SFN timing.

In Example 5 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 1 4 includes a requested DRX starting offset reported according to SCG SFN timing.

In Example 6 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 1 5 comprises a HARQ bitmap reported according to an SCG configuration.

In Example 7 the processor of any of Examples 1 6 is further configured to determine that at least one carrier frequency for communication with the MCG through the first transceiver is affected by IDC interference.

In Example 8 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 1 7 includes a requested DRX starting offset reported according to MCG SFN timing The processor is further configure to receive through the first transceiver a second message comprising a TDM solution for avoiding or reducing the IDC interference in both the MCG and the SCG.

In Example 9 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 1 8 comprises a HARQ bitmap reported according to an SCG configuration. The processor is further configure to receive through the first transceiver a second message comprising a TDM solution for avoiding or reducing the IDC interference in both the MCG and the SCG.

In Example 10 the UE of any of Examples 1 9 further includes at least one non 3GPP transmitter and the processor is configured to generate the TDM assistance information to avoid or reduce interference with a transmission of the at least one non 3GPP transmitter.

In Example 11 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 1 10 includes a plurality of HARQ bitmaps each HARQ bitmap comprising a different pattern length based on a TDD UL DL configuration corresponding to one of the first node and the second node.

In Example 12 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 1 11 includes first TDM assistance information corresponding to the MCG and second TDM assistance information corresponding to the SCG.

Example 13 is an eNB that includes a wireless transceiver and a processor. The wireless transceiver is configured to communicate with a UE using a first frequency associated with a first cell group. The processor is configured to receive from the UE through the wireless transceiver a first RRC message comprising interference information. The processor is configured to forward the interference information to a node in a second cell group wirelessly connected to the UE using a second frequency. The processor is configured to receive from the node in the second cell group a first TDM solution for the interference and forward the first TDM solution to the UE through the wireless transceiver.

In Example 14 the first RRC message of Example 13 includes a DRX starting offset associated with a SFN timing of the first cell group.

In Example 15 the processor of any of Examples 13 14 is further configured to determine a second TDM solution for the interference based on the SFN timing of the first cell group and send the second TDM solution to the UE through the wireless transceiver.

In Example 16 first RRC message of any of Examples 13 15 includes a DRX starting offset associated with a SFN timing of the second cell group.

In Example 17 the first RRC message of any of Examples 13 16 includes HARQ pattern information and wherein before forwarding the interference information to the node in the second cell group the processor is configured to determine whether the HARQ pattern information corresponds to the first cell group or the second cell group.

In Example 18 the processor of any of Examples 13 17 is further configured to determine that the HARQ pattern information includes a first HARQ pattern comprising a first subframe pattern length corresponding to the first cell group and a second HARQ pattern comprising a second subframe pattern length corresponding to the second cell group. The processor is further configured to configure based on the first HARQ pattern DRX parameters for the first cell group to avoid or reduce in device coexistence interference in the UE. The processor is further configured to forward the second HARQ pattern to the node in the second cell group.

Example 19 is a method that includes receiving at a secondary eNB a request for a DRX starting offset corresponding to a SFN timing of master eNB. The method includes based on an SFN timing offset between the secondary eNB and the master eNB using the requested DRX starting offset to select one or more DRX parameters to reduce or avoid in device coexistence interference in a UE connected to both the secondary eNB and the master eNB. The method includes sending the one or more DRX parameters from the secondary eNB to the UE through the master eNB.

In Example 20 the method of Example 19 further includes receiving the request for the DRX starting offset at the secondary eNB from the master eNB through a non ideal backhaul interface.

In Example 21 the method of any of Examples 19 20 further include receiving at the secondary eNB from the master eNB a HARQ bitmap pattern requested by the UE for secondary eNB and further configuring the one or more DRX parameters based on the HARQ bitmap pattern.

Example 22 is a method that includes communicating using a first transceiver of UE using a first node in a MCG in a 3GPP LTE wireless network. The method includes communicating using a second transceiver of the UE with a second node in a SCG in the 3GPP LTE wireless network the UE configured to operate in dual connectivity with both the first node and the second node. The method includes determining that at least one carrier frequency for communication with the SCG through the second transceiver is affected by IDC interference. The method includes sending to the first node through the first transceiver a first message comprising TDM assistance information corresponding to the at least one carrier frequency of the SCG.

In Example 23 the method of Example 22 further includes receiving through the first transceiver a second message comprising a TDM solution for avoiding or reducing the IDC interference in the SCG.

In Example 24 the first message of any of Examples 22 23 includes a RRC message including one or more DRX parameters.

In Example 25 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 22 24 includes a requested DRX starting offset reported according to MCG SFN timing.

In Example 26 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 22 25 includes a requested DRX starting offset reported according to SCG SFN timing.

In Example 27 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 22 26 includes a HARQ bitmap reported according to an SCG configuration.

In Example 28 the method of any of Examples 22 27 further includes determining that at least one carrier frequency for communication with the MCG through the first transceiver is affected by IDC interference.

In Example 29 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 22 28 includes a requested DRX starting offset reported according to MCG SFN timing. The method further includes receiving through the first transceiver a second message comprising a TDM solution for avoiding or reducing the IDC interference in both the MCG and the SCG.

In Example 30 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 22 29 includes a HARQ bitmap reported according to an SCG configuration. The method further includes receiving through the first transceiver a second message comprising a TDM solution for avoiding or reducing the IDC interference in both the MCG and the SCG.

In Example 31 the method of any of Examples 22 30 further includes generating the TDM assistance information to avoid or reduce interference with a transmission of at least one non 3GPP transmitter of the UE.

In Example 32 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 22 31 includes a plurality of HARQ bitmaps each HARQ bitmap including a different pattern length based on a TDD UL DL configuration corresponding to one of the first node and the second node.

In Example 33 the TDM assistance information of any of Examples 22 32 includes first TDM assistance information corresponding to the MCG and second TDM assistance information corresponding to the SCG.

Example 34 is a method that includes communicating using a wireless transceiver of an eNB with a UE using a first frequency associated with a first cell group. The method includes receiving from the UE through the wireless transceiver a first RRC message comprising interference information. The method includes forwarding the interference information to a node in a second cell group wirelessly connected to the UE using a second frequency. The method includes receiving from the node in the second cell group a first TDM solution for the interference. The method includes forwarding the first TDM solution to the UE through the wireless transceiver.

In Example 35 the first RRC message of Example 34 includes a DRX starting offset associated with a SFN timing of the first cell group.

In Example 36 the method of any of Examples 34 35 further includes determining a second TDM solution for the interference based on the SFN timing of the first cell group and sending the second TDM solution to the UE through the wireless transceiver.

In Example 37 the first RRC message of any of Examples 34 36 includes a DRX starting offset associated with a SFN timing of the second cell group.

In Example 38 first RRC message of any of Examples 34 37 includes HARQ pattern information. Before forwarding the interference information to the node in the second cell group the method further includes determining whether the HARQ pattern information corresponds to the first cell group or the second cell group.

In Example 39 method of any of Examples 34 38 further includes determining that the HARQ pattern information includes a first HARQ pattern including a first subframe pattern length corresponding to the first cell group and a second HARQ pattern including a second subframe pattern length corresponding to the second cell group. The method includes configuring based on the first HARQ pattern DRX parameters for the first cell group to avoid or reduce in device coexistence interference in the UE. The method includes forwarding the second HARQ pattern to the node in the second cell group.

Example 40 is a method that includes receiving at a secondary eNB a request for a DRX starting offset corresponding to a SFN timing of master eNB. The method includes based on an SFN timing offset between the secondary eNB and the master eNB useing the requested DRX starting offset to select one or more DRX parameters to reduce or avoid in device coexistence interference in a UE connected to both the secondary eNB and the master eNB. The method includes sending the one or more DRX parameters from the secondary eNB to the UE through the master eNB.

In Example 41 the method of Example 40 further includes receiving the request for the DRX starting offset at the secondary eNB from the master eNB through a non ideal backhaul interface.

In Example 42 the method of any of Examples 40 41 further includes receiving at the secondary eNB from the master eNB a HARQ bitmap pattern requested by the UE for secondary eNB and further configuring the one or more DRX parameters based on the HARQ bitmap pattern.

Example 44 is machine readable storage including machine readable instructions to implement a method or realize an apparatus as in any of Examples 22 43.

Various techniques disclosed herein or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM an EPROM a flash drive an optical drive a magnetic hard drive or another medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or an object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more modules or components which are terms used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module or component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module or component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules or components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object a procedure or a function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module or component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations that when joined logically together comprise the module or component and achieve the stated purpose for the module or component.

Indeed a module or component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules or components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules or components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on its presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

It will be understood by those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

