---

title: Transmission of physical broadcast channel (PBCH) contents
abstract: Technology for transmitting physical broadcast channel (PBCH) contents is disclosed. An evolved node B (eNB) may configure one or more repetitions of PBCH content for transmission, to a user equipment (UE), from a cell at a selected time interval. The eNB may select a scrambling code for the one or more repetitions of PBCH content transmitted from the cell. The eNB may apply the scrambling code to one or more repetitions of PBCH content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386476&OS=09386476&RS=09386476
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09386476
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140626
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 879 014 filed Sep. 17 2013 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE Release 8 9 10 or 11 systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical uplink control channel PUCCH can be used to acknowledge that data was received. Downlink and uplink channels or transmissions can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Technology is described for enhancing coverage of user equipments UEs equipped to support machine type communication MTC . A plurality of evolved node Bs eNBs can transmit repetitions of physical broadcast channel PBCH content from one or more cells to the UE but these repetitions of PBCH content may not assure robust PBCH decoding performance at the UE due to constant cross correlation among the cells. Therefore interference randomization can be applied to the repetitions of PBCH content in order to enhance coverage and provide for robust decoding of PBCH content at the UE. In one example a scrambling code can be applied to the repetitions of PBCH content in order to provide the interference randomization. In an alternative configuration the repetitions of PBCH content may be transmitted at different time locations for a plurality of cells thereby enhancing coverage at the UE.

The resource block can be mapped to 84 resource elements REs using short or normal cyclic prefixing or the resource block can be mapped to 72 REs not shown using extended cyclic prefixing. The RE can be a unit of one OFDM symbol by one subcarrier i.e. 15 kHz . Each RE can transmit two bits and of information in the case of quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation. Other types of modulation may be used such as 16 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM or 64 QAM to transmit a greater number of bits in each RE or bi phase shift keying BPSK modulation to transmit a lesser number of bits a single bit in each RE. The RB can be configured for a downlink transmission from the eNodeB to the UE or the RB can be configured for an uplink transmission from the UE to the eNodeB.

The rate matching operation can be regarded as a repetition of the encoded bits by a mother coding rate. Therefore 120 i.e. 40 3 encoded bits are repeated to fill out the available REs for the PBCH. The same 480 encoded bits are repeated with the same phases at every 10 ms for 40 ms in normal CP due to the mother coding rate while the different 432 encoded bits are repeated with the different phases at every 10 ms for 40 ms in extended CP. The cell specific scrambling code on top of the encoded bits is applied not only to detect one of four radio frames 2 bit LSB of SFN but also to provide the interference randomization among the cells. The cell specific scrambling code is re initialized at every 40 ms and thus can provide the function to distinguish 2 bit LSB Least Significant Bit of SFN which is the 10 ms one radio frame boundary detection among 40 ms 4 radio frames by means of the different phases of cell specific scrambling sequences. A UE can require four blind decoding attempts to find out the 2 bit LSB of SFN while 8 bit MSB Most Significant Bit of SFN is explicitly signaled by the PBCH contents.

The scrambling code that is traditionally used is further described in 3GPP Technical Specification TS 36.211 Section 6.6.1 Release 11. The block of bits b 0 . . . b M 1 where Mthe number of bits transmitted on the physical broadcast channel equals 1920 for normal cyclic prefix and 1728 for extended cyclic prefix can be scrambled with a cell specific sequence prior to modulation resulting in a block of scrambled bits tilde over b 0 . . . tilde over b M 1 according to tilde over b i b i c i mod 2 where the scrambling sequence c i is given by 3GPP TS 36.211 Section 7.2 Release 11. The scrambling sequence can be initialised with c Nin each radio frame fulfilling nmod 4 0.

In following subframes the collision patterns at the UE can be represented by B C and D. In the subsequent subframes the UE may again receive two scrambled bits from cell 0 and cell 1 respectively that collide with one another. For example collision pattern B can result from the UE receiving b cand b cat substantially the same time. Collision pattern C can result from the UE receiving b cand b cat substantially the same time. Collision pattern D can result from the UE receiving b cand b cat substantially the same time. However the collision patterns may be distinct between radio frames. For example collision pattern A is different than collision pattern B due to the different scrambling bits that are applied to the encoded bits. Since the scrambling bits are different for each transmission the resulting scrambled bits are different at each transmission as well. The different scrambled bits can result in distinct collision patterns at each radio frame between cell 0 and cell 1 at the UE. When collision patterns are distinct at each radio frame between two or more cells favorable inter cell interference randomization can be achieved.

In some examples UEs that are equipped for MTC generally operate with a single Rx antenna whereas UEs that are equipped for LTE generally operate with two Rx antennas. As a result the performance of the UEs equipped for MTC may be degraded by 4 dB as compared with UEs that are equipped for LTE. In addition enhanced coverage of 10.7 dB is desired for UEs that are equipped for MTC as further discussed in 3GPP Technical Review TR 36.888 Version 12.0.0.

In addition PBCH contents can be transmitted to the UE in slots that do not contain the mPBCH contents. For example mPBCH content can be transmitted in a first slot of a subframe and PBCH content can be transmitted in a second slot of the same subframe. The PBCH content may or may not be the same as the mPBCH content in the subframe. The rate matching operation to fit the mPBCH content into a radio frame or four radio frames can be regarded as one kind of repetition.

If two cells e.g. cell 0 and cell 1 are transmitting in a synchronous network the UE may experience mPBCH collisions between the two cells. For example the UE may be receive ten repetitions of mPBCH content from cell 0 and ten repetitions of mPBCH content from cell 1 in substantially the same slots of the radio frame. As a result the ten repetitions of mPBCH content from cell 0 may collide with the ten repetitions of mPBCH content from cell 1 at the UE. Without applying a scrambling technique to provide interference randomization the ten repetitions of mPBCH content on each second slot of the radio frame can have the same collision patterns between the two cells. For example cell 0 may transmit the mPBCH content at every other slot in the radio frame as A A A A A A A A A A and cell 1 may transmit the mPBCH content at every other slot in the radio frame as B B B B B B B B B B . The collision pattern i.e. the cross correlation is then determined by A and B. Therefore the collision patterns are C C C C C C C C C C which does not provide interference randomization. In other words the collision pattern is substantially the same at every other slot in the UE i.e. not randomized . If the repetitions of mPBCH content in the radio frame are transmitted after cell specific scrambling operations there is substantially no interference randomization as well.

Technology is described herein for performing interference randomization by applying a novel scrambling technique to repetitions of PBCH content. The PBCH content can include mPBCH content. The novel scrambling technique can be applied to the encoded bits or to existing scrambled bits. The novel scrambling technique may involve applying an enhanced scrambling code wherein the enhanced scrambling code is generated based on a physical cell ID and or time related parameters e.g. slot number subframe number radio frame number . The enhanced scrambling code can be applied to the mPBCH content e.g. at an information bit level encoded bit level modulation type level in order to achieve the interference randomization. As a result collision patterns among the cells can be substantially different for each repetition of mPBCH content at the UE.

The enhanced scrambling code can be applied to one or more repetitions of mPBCH content. For example an enhanced scrambling code of C m 0 can be applied to a first repetition an enhanced scrambling code of C m 1 can be applied to a second repetition an enhanced scrambling code of C m 2 can be applied to a third repetition and so on. Therefore ten distinct scrambling codes can be applied to ten repetitions of mPBCH content in a radio frame. In an alternative configuration the enhanced scrambling code can be applied to every Nth repetition wherein N is an integer. For example an enhanced scrambling code of C m 0 can be applied to a first repetition and an enhanced scrambling code of C m 1 can be applied to a fifth repetition. In yet another configuration the same enhanced scrambling code can be applied to multiple but non consecutive repetitions. For example an enhanced scrambling code of C m 0 can be applied to a first repetition and the enhanced scrambling code of C m 0 can be applied to a fourth repetition.

An evolved node B eNB can select the enhanced scrambling codes for the repetitions of mPBCH content that are transmitted from a cell e.g. cell 0 to the UE. The enhanced scrambling codes may randomize interferences between the repetitions of mPBCH content transmitted from the cell e.g. cell 0 and repetitions of mPBCH content transmitted from other cells e.g. cell 1 wherein the repetitions of mPBCH content from both cell 0 and cell 1 are transmitted to the UE in substantially the same slots of the radio frame.

In one configuration the eNB can apply the enhanced scrambling code on top of an existing cell specific scrambling code. In other words the enhanced scrambling code is applied in addition to the existing scrambling code. The existing scrambling code can provide a function of 2 bit least significant bit LSB detection of the system frame number SFN . The enhanced scrambling code that is applied on top of the existing scrambling code can provide interference randomization for the repetitions of mPBCH content. A scrambling sequence for initialization of the enhanced scrambling code can be based on a function of the physical cell ID slot number subframe number SFN and or the index related to the repetition block i.e. the slots in the radio frame . In other words the physical cell ID slot number subframe number SFN and or the index can be used to initialize the enhanced scrambling code. In one example the initialization of the scrambling sequence can be a function of the physical cell ID a function of the slot number a function of the subframe number a function of the SFN or a function of the index related to the repetition block. If the scrambling sequence is a function of a repetition block index e.g. n rep n sf can be replaced with n rep in the equations below.

Since the physical cell IDs subframe numbers etc. can vary for different cells the enhanced scrambling codes that are generated for each cell can also vary. For example cell 0 can transmit a set of bits that are scrambled according to C m 0 wherein C m 0 is a function of the physical cell ID for cell 0. Cell 0 can transmit the set of bits in a given subframe slot. Cell 1 can also transmit a set of bits that are scrambled according to C n 0 in the same subframe slot wherein C n 0 is a function of the physical cell ID for cell 1. However since the physical cell IDs for cell 0 and cell 1 are different the enhanced scrambling code of C m 0 for cell 0 is different than the enhanced scrambling code of C n 0 for cell 1. In addition enhanced scrambling codes of C m 1 and C m 2 as well as C n 1 and C n 2 can be used for sets of bits that are transmitted thereafter. Therefore if cell 0 transmits A A A in given subframe slots and cell 1 transmits B B B in substantially the same subframe slots the different enhanced scrambling codes i.e. due to the different subframe numbers would result in collision patterns of C D E rather than C C C . As a result the interference between transmissions of mPBCH content can be randomized between cell 0 and cell 1 at the UE.

A transmission of mPBCH content in subframe ncan be represented as tilde over b i tilde over b i c i mod 2 wherein tilde over b i is a scrambled bit and the scrambling sequence is initialized with c f n e.g. c n c 2 n N etc. in each subframe transmitting the mPBCH content. Therefore the subframe number is used to initialize the enhanced scrambling code i.e. the initialization of the scrambling sequence is a function of the subframe number . In one example the scrambled bit tilde over b i can be modulated by quadrature phase shift keying QPSK .

For a transmission of mPBCH content or PBCH content in subframe n the block of bits b 0 . . . b M 1 where M the number of bits transmitted on the physical broadcast channel equals 1920 for normal cyclic prefix and 1728 for extended cyclic prefix can be scrambled with a cell specific sequence prior to modulation resulting in a block of scrambled bits tilde over b 0 . . . tilde over b M 1 according to tilde over b i b i c i mod 2 where the scrambling sequence c i is given by 3GPP TS 36.211 Section 7.2 Release 11. The scrambling sequence can be initialised with c 2 n Nin each radio frame fulfilling nmod 4 0. Thus the above equation can be a common expression for both PBCH and mPBCH while backward compatibility can be kept for PBCH. Since the legacy PBCH is transmitted at subframe 0 i.e. n sf 0 the initialization value can retain the backward compatibility.

In one example the scrambling sequence can be applied upon identifying the subframe index. The scrambling sequence can be initialized at each subframe in order to transmit the PBCH content or mPBCH content. In another example a plurality of scrambling sequences can be generated for the repetitions of PBCH content or mPBCH content. The plurality of scrambling sequences can then be applied to the repetitions of mPBCH content i.e. the repeated mPBCH encoded bits .

In an alternative configuration the eNB can apply the enhanced scrambling code to mPBCH content without the existing scrambling code. In other words the existing scrambling code can be replaced with the enhanced scrambling code. Without the existing cell specific scrambling code the enhanced scrambling code can provide the function of 2 bit least significant bit LSB system frame number SFN boundary as well as interference randomization. Therefore an initialization value for the enhanced scrambling code can be a function of a physical cell ID and time related parameters e.g. repeated mPBCH content position related parameters . In addition the initialization can be performed in each radio frame fulfilling nmod 4 0.

When the eNB applies the enhanced scrambling code in place of the existing scrambling code a transmission of mPBCH content can be represented as tilde over b i b i c i mod 2 when the encoded bits for all repetitions of mPBCH content are generated to fit into four radio frames. The scrambling sequence is initialized with c f N e.g. c N in each radio frame fulfilling nmod 4 0. The scrambled bit tilde over b i can be modulated by QPSK. In one example the entire bit sequences for all repetitions can be generated to fit into four radio frames. The enhanced scrambling code is applied in order to have different scrambling patterns for all repetitions of mPBCH content within the four radio frames.

As shown in cell 0 can select an offset value e.g. offset 0 . Cell 0 can select the offset value according to a physical cell ID associated with cell 0. Cell 0 can transmit mPBCH content to the UE after an offset period has completed. Cell 0 can transmit additional mPBCH content to the UE after a defined period. In addition cell 1 can select an offset value e.g. offset 1 . Cell 1 can select the offset value according to a physical cell ID associated with cell 1. Cell 1 can transmit mPBCH content to the UE after an offset period has completed. Cell 1 can transmit additional mPBCH content to the UE after a defined period. Since the physical cell IDs associated with cell 0 and cell 1 are different the offset period selected by cell 0 is different than the offset period selected by cell 1. In other words cell 0 may not transmit mPBCH content at substantially the same time as when cell 1 transmits mPBCH content. Therefore the UE may receive the mPBCH content from cell 0 and the mPBCH content from cell 1 at substantially different times thereby substantially avoiding collisions between cell 0 and cell 1.

In one configuration interleaving e.g. cell specific interleaving may be performed in order to achieve interference randomization. The interleaving may be performed at a subframe level. The interleaving can be performed with a predetermined pattern on encoded bits information bits and or modulation symbols. The predetermined pattern for interleaving can be determined using a pseudo random sequence. The pseudo random sequence can be initialized by one or more parameters wherein the parameters are related to the physical cell ID and or subframe number.

As an example the encoded bits in a subframe are repeated in all of the other subframes within a radio frame. Therefore all of the encoded bits in all of the subframes can be identical e.g. c 0 c 1 c 2 c 3 . . . c M 1 where M is the number of encoded bits in a subframe for the mPBCH content. With a suitable initialization value for the pseudo random sequence the cell specific interleaving can be performed at every subframe. In one example the initialization value may be determined by f N n . After interleaving is performed on the encoded bits at subframe n and in a radio frame m the encoded bits for cell 0 and cell 1 can be provided with interference randomization. For example cell 0 can transmit c 10 c 0 c 91 . . . c3 with a length M to the UE and cell 1 can transmit c 3 c 32 c 71 . . . c28 with a length M to the UE. Cell 0 and cell 1 can transmit different mPBCH content at each subframe because the physical cell IDs and the subframe numbers are different for cell 0 and cell 1. Therefore the collision patterns at particular subframes at the UE e.g. the collision between c 10 and c 3 the collision between c 0 and c 32 the collision between c 91 and c 71 the collision between c 3 and c 28 can be randomized thereby improving the performance at the UE.

Orthogonal code covers can be applied to the repetitions of PBCH content. The orthogonal code covers can result in interferences other than the intended mPBCH content from a cell being canceled out. The orthogonal code covers can be in relation to physical cell IDs. As shown in the same repetition blocks are transmitted within a radio frame for each cell. The orthogonal code covers can be applied on top of the repetition blocks. A first orthogonal code cover e.g. W0 can be applied to a first repetition a second orthogonal code cover e.g. W1 can be applied to a second repetition a third orthogonal code cover e.g. W2 can be applied to a third repetition and so on. The orthogonal code cover can include a Discrete Fourier Transform DFT code e.g. equivalent time or frequency domain cyclic shift or a Walsh code.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of an evolved node B eNB operable to transmit physical broadcast channel PBCH contents as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to configure one or more repetitions of PBCH content for transmission to a user equipment UE from a cell at a selected time interval as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to select a scrambling code for the one or more repetitions of PBCH content transmitted from the cell as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to apply the scrambling code to one or more repetitions of PBCH content as in block .

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to select the scrambling code based on a function of at least one of a physical cell ID a slot number a subframe number a system frame number SFN or an index related to the one or more repetitions of PBCH content. In one configuration the PBCH content includes modified physical broadcast channel mPBCH content. In addition the scrambling code is selected to provide interference randomization for PBCH collision patterns at the UE

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to select a separate scrambling code for each of the repetitions of PBCH content. In one configuration each repetition of PBCH content is transmitted to the UE in a slot of a subframe. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to apply the scrambling codes on the one or more repetitions of PBCH content on top of an existing scrambling code.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to scramble bits included in the one or more repetitions of PBCH content according to tilde over b i tilde over b i c i mod 2 wherein c i is a scrambling sequence and is initialized with c f N in each subframe ntransmitting the one or more repetitions of PBCH content to the UE. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to scramble bits included in the one or more repetitions of PBCH content transmitted in subframe naccording to tilde over b i b i c i mod 2 wherein c i is a scrambling sequence and is initialized with c 2 n Nin each radio frame fulfilling nmod 4 0. Furthermore the computer circuitry can be further configured to scramble bits included in the one or more repetitions of PBCH content according to tilde over b i b i c i mod 2 wherein c i is a scrambling sequence and is initialized with c f N in each radio frame fulfilling nmod 4 0.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to apply the scrambling code on information bits encoded bits or modulation symbols included in the one or more repetitions of PBCH content. In one configuration the UE is operable to perform machine type communication MTC . In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to apply an interleaving pattern to the one or more repetitions of PBCH content in order to achieve interference randomization.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to apply the interleaving pattern with at least one of encoded bits information bits or modulation symbols. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to select the interleaving pattern using a pseudo random sequence that is initialized based on a physical cell ID or a subframe number.

Another example provides a method for transmitting physical broadcast channel PBCH contents as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of configuring one or more repetitions of PBCH content at an evolved node B eNB for transmission to a user equipment UE from a cell at a selected timing interval as in block . The method includes the operation of selecting an orthogonal code cover for the one or more repetitions of PBCH content at the eNB wherein the orthogonal code cover is selected to substantially cancel PBCH interference at the UE as in block . In addition the method includes the operation of applying the orthogonal code cover to the one or more repetitions of PBCH content as in block .

In one example the method includes the operation of selecting the orthogonal code cover using a physical cell identifier ID . In one configuration the orthogonal code cover includes a Discrete Fourier Transform DFT code or a Walsh code. In addition the DFT codes are selected according to

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of an evolved node B eNB operable to transmit physical broadcast channel PBCH contents as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to configure one or more repetitions of PBCH content for transmission to a user equipment UE from a cell at a selected timing interval as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to select an offset value for the one or more repetitions of PBCH content wherein the offset value is selected to substantially avoid PBCH collisions at the UE as in block . In addition the computer circuitry can be configured to apply the offset value to the one or more repetitions of PBCH content as in block .

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to select the offset value using a physical cell identifier ID . In one example the UE that receives the PBCH content from the cell is configured for machine type communication MTC . In an additional example the PBCH content includes modified physical broadcast channel mPBCH content.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

