---

title: Methane-rich syngas production from hydrocarbon fuels using multi-functional catalyst/capture agent
abstract: The disclosure provides a gasification process for the production of a methane-rich syngas at temperatures exceeding 400째 C. through the use of an alkali hydroxide MOH, using a gasification mixture comprised of at least 0.25 moles and less than 2 moles of water for each mole of carbon, and at least 0.15 moles and less than 2 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon. These relative amounts allow the production of a methane-rich syngas at temperatures exceeding 400째 C. by enabling a series of reactions which generate Hand CH, and mitigate the reforming of methane. The process provides a methane-rich syngas comprised of roughly 20% (dry molar percentage) CHat temperatures above 400째 C., and may effectively operate within an IGFC cycle at reactor temperatures between 400-900째 C. and pressures in excess of 10 atmospheres.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09562203&OS=09562203&RS=09562203
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09562203
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141126
---
This patent application is a continuation of and claims priority from non provisional patent application No. 13 232 018 filed Sep. 14 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The disclosure relates to a gasification process for a carbonaceous fuel for the production of a methane rich syngas at molten bed temperatures exceeding 400 C. through the use of an alkali hydroxide MOH where M is an alkali cation of K Na Li or a mixture thereof using a gasification mixture comprised of at least 0.25 moles and less than 2 moles of water for each mole of carbon and at least 0.15 moles and less than 2 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon. The process provides a methane rich syngas comprised of roughly 20 dry molar percentage CHat temperatures above 400 C. and may effectively operate within an IGFC cycle or IGCC cycle at molten bed temperatures between 400 900 C. and pressures in excess of 10 atmospheres.

Gasification is a process that converts organic or fossil based carbonaceous materials into carbon monoxide hydrogen carbon dioxide and methane. This is achieved by reacting the material at high temperatures without combustion with a controlled amount of oxygen and or steam to generate a resulting gas mixture of Hand CO called syngas. Syngas is combustible and often used as a fuel or as an intermediate for the production of other chemicals such as methane methanol synthetic diesel and dimethyl ether in catalytic processes.

A potential use of syngas is as a fuel for fuel cells which utilize combustable fuels and oxygen to produce direct current electricity. In addition to electricity fuel cells produce water carbon dioxide heat and depending on the fuel source very small amounts of nitrogen dioxide and other emissions. The energy efficiency of a fuel cell is generally between 40 60 or up to 85 efficient if waste heat is captured for use. Additionally because fuel cells generate electricity while keeping the fuel and air separated the COgenerated in the anode of the fuel cell is not diluted with nitrogen making 100 capture of COwithin the system both technically and economically viable. Fuel cells therefore hold great promise in efforts toward reducing COemissions even when the fuel source is coal.

A Solid Oxide Fuel Cell SOFC is a specific type of fuel cell which offers particular advantage. SOFCs use a solid material typically yttria stabilized zirconia as the electrolyte and the solid material construction allows geometries outside of the flat plane configurations of other types of fuel cells. The SOFC operates at very high temperatures typically between 500 and 1000 degrees Celsius C. and are capable of internally reforming light hydrocarbons such as methane propane and butane. As a result SOFCs can be run on a variety of fuels other than pure hydrogen gas provided the fuel selected contains hydrogen atoms. The high SOFC temperatures also incur other advantages such as a the ability to incorporate bottoming cycles to generate further power from high temperature exhaust stream b the capability to water gas shift CO into Hfuel c the capability to steam reform hydrocarbons into Hand CO and d the capability to catalyze the electrochemical reactions using non noble metals thus eliminating the need for expensive electro catalysts such as platinum. A primary disadvantage in SOFC operation is the necessary cooling load of the fuel cell due to the exothermic electro chemical reaction between hydrogen and oxygen ions. In terms of overall system efficiency the parasitic cooling load typically manifests as compressive and pumping power cost expended for supply of cooling air flow. A reduction in cooling requirements therefore has direct improvement on the operating efficiency of the SOFC.

One method of reducing SOFC cooling requirements is to use the internal reforming capabilities of the electrocatalysts engendered by the high operating temperatures. Endothermic reforming of hydrocarbons such as CHcan serve as an effective heat sink to the exothermic Hoxidation within the fuel cell and significantly reduce stack thermal management load. As a result use of a methane rich syngas as an SOFC fuel carries distinct advantages. However generation of a methane rich syngas through gasification has been problematic at the typical SOFC operating temperatures temperatures above 400 C. because of rapid methane reforming and oxidation in typical coal gasifiers. Correspondingly the realizable efficiency of combined cycle concepts such as the Integrated Gasification Fuel Cell IGFC have suffered. In order to achieve high IGFC efficiencies it is desirable that the gasification process and the SOFC operation occur at commiserate temperatures and additionally desirable that the gasification process delivers a methane rich syngas product in order to exploit the endothermic reforming reactions discussed above that minimize the amount of coolant or cooling air. See Siefert et al. Integrating Catalytic Coal Gasifiers With Solid Oxide Fuel Cells 2010 82 2010 see also Siefert et al. Exergy and economic analyses of advanced IGCC CCS and IGFC CCS power plants 107 pp. 315 328 2013 see also Romano et al. Integrating IT SOFC and gasification combined cycle with methanation reactor and hydrogen firing for near zero emission power generation from coal 4 2011 among others. A gasification system capable of generating a methane rich syngas would provide distinct advantage. The advantage of a methane rich syngas would additionally accrue to the gasification operation itself since methanation is a highly exothermic reaction and can be utilized to supply all or a large portion of the energy required for the endothermic steam coal reactions and greatly mitigate the need for oxygen and hence greatly mitigates the need for supporting air separation units in gasification operations. In addition since higher temperatures means faster steam gasification kinetics then higher reactor temperatures imply smaller reactor sizes per unit of syngas exiting the reactor. The trade off is between higher kinetics at higher temperatures and high methane concentration at lower temperatures. The optimal temperature of the reactor is between 400 C. and 900 C. depending on whether additional catalysts are added to the reactor to speed up the coal gasification kinetics.

It is also understood that the reactivity of carbonaceous materials such as graphite and coal char towards COand steam is strongly enhanced by the presence of alkali metal salts such as LiCO NaCO and KCO. See e.g. Sheth et al. Catalytic gasification of coal using eutectic salts reaction kinetics with binary and ternary eutectic catalysts 82 2003 among others. The exact role that the salts play in these processes is not completely understood however whatever the detailed mechanism of the catalytic process is the overall rate of gasification is enhanced through contact between the alkali metal catalyst and the carbon. Generally molten catalyst salts are better able to penetrate the coal structure and hence improve accessibility of the unavailable carbon sites in the interior of the coal char. Similarly the alkali hydroxide catalysts KOH and NaOH have been utilized in catalytic gasifications. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 3 786 138 to Shalit et al. see also Kamo et al. Production of hydrogen by steam gasification of dehydrochlorinated poly vinyl chloride or activated carbon in the presence of various alkali compounds 8 2006 . The hydroxide catalysts are generally used in stochiometric excess to COgenerated during the gasification process in order to absorb COand drive the water gas shift reaction in the gasifier toward exclusive Hproduction and additionally utilize relatively large amounts of HO for the additional production of H. These molar relations fail to realize production of a methane rich syngas at the typical SOFC temperatures of 400 900 C. It would be advantageous to provide a gasification process whereby catalytic gasification using an alkali metal catalyst could generate a methane rich syngas within the SOFC operating temperature range. It would provide further advantage if the catalyst were an alkali hydroxide so that a substantial amount of COgenerated as a result of the gasifier process could be captured within the reactor. The exothermic capture reactions along with the exothermic methanation reactions mean that the gasifier can be operated without any input of oxygen or external healing. Additionally by eliminating the requirement for oxygen to maintain the temperature of the reactor a larger amount of methane can be generated in the gasifier.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The disclosure provides a gasification process for the production of a methane rich syngas at temperatures exceeding 400 C. through the use of an alkali hydroxide MOH using a gasification mixture comprised of at least 0.25 moles and less than 2 moles of water for each mole of carbon and at least 0.15 moles and less than 2 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon. Preferably the gasification mixture is comprised of at least 0.5 moles and less than 1.5 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon. These relative amounts allow the production of a methane rich syngas at temperatures exceeding 400 C. by enabling a series of reactions which generate Hand CH and mitigate the steam reforming of methane. The particular molar relationship of the gasification mixture prevents the alkali hydroxide MOH from capturing all gaseous carbon species. If not enough alkali hydroxide catalyst is used then the process requires the input of oxygen which can oxidize methane. If too much alkali hydroxide is used then the methane and higher hydrocarbons are steam reformed and there isn t enough hydrocarbons in the syngas to provide cooling downstream in the SOFC. If not enough water is used then the initial steam coal gasification reaction cannot proceed. If too much water is used then the methane and higher hydrocarbons are reformed and there isn t enough hydrocarbons in the syngas to provide cooling downstream in the SOFC

The carbonaceous fuel is a fuel or gasifiable material which contains carbon in an elemental or chemically combined form. The alkali hydroxide MOH and subsequently formed alkali carbonate MCOact to catalyze the carbon steam reaction generating CO and H. The water gas shift reaches equilibrium rapidly at the gasification temperature and acts to balance the concentrations of CO HO CO and H in conjunction with methanation reactions. The alkali hydroxide MOH in the molten state acts to remove to some portion of COand form molten alkali carbonate MCO however the molar relations of the gasification mixture limit the alkali hydroxide MOH and HO actions maintain a concentration of CO and HO such that reverse methanation is greatly mitigated. In certain embodiments the specified molar relations of carbon alkali hydroxide MOH and HO generate a methane rich syngas comprised of roughly 20 dry molar percentage CHwhile operating above 400 C.

The alkaline hydroxide MOH may be comprised of potassium hydroxide KOH sodium hydroxide NaOH lithium hydroxide LiOH or mixtures thereof. In an embodiment the alkali hydroxide MOH is comprised of at least 5 mol KOH. The KOH KCOacts as a catalyst for the carbon steam reaction as well as catalyzing the production of methane. In another embodiment the alkali hydroxide MOH is comprised of equimolar amounts of KOH NaOH and LiOH. The equimolar KOH NaOH LiOH acts to provide the alkali metal cation M while establishing a eutectic mixture of carbonates which exist in the molten state at gasification temperatures generally between 400 and 900 C. The alkali hydroxide MOH may additionally act to mitigate the concentration of additional gases created through the volatization and gasification of the carbonaceous fuel such as the mitigation of HS or HCl through the formation of MS or MCl reducing the necessity for subsequent gas clean up operations.

The gasification process disclosed effectively operates within an IGFC cycle or an IGCC cycle if 100 COcapture is not required. The IGFC cycle is enhanced by operation with methane rich syngas by the methane reforming which occurs within the operating temperature and pressure conditions of the SOFC reducing the burden on parasitic heat removal process associated with maintaining the operating temperature of the SOFC. An additional advantage of the process is the generation of the methane rich syngas at elevated pressures which significantly aids integration into an IGFC where the SOFC may operate at pressures in excess of 5 atmospheres.

Embodiments of the gasification process disclosed are further demonstrated and described in the following description.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein a method for the production of a methane rich syngas using a gasification mixture comprised of a carbonaceous fuel an alkali hydroxide MOH and steam where the gasification mixture is comprised of at least 0.25 moles and less than 2 moles of water for each mole of carbon and at least 0.15 moles and less than 2 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon. Preferably the gasification mixture is comprised of at least 0.5 moles and less than 1.5 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon.

The gasification mixture is comprised of specified relative amounts of the carbonaceous fuel the alkali hydroxide MOH and the HO. These relative amounts allow the production of a methane rich syngas at molten bed temperatures exceeding 400 C. by enabling a series of reactions which generate Hand CH and mitigate the reforming of methane. The particular molar relationship of the gasification mixture prevents the alkali hydroxide MOH from continuously removing CO and maintains a concentration of CO and HO within the gasification gases. Additionally the molar relationship provides sufficient HO for the production of CO and Hthrough a carbon steam reaction while limiting the HO available for the destruction of CHthrough reforming in the gasifier.

The alkali hydroxide MOH forms an alkali carbonate MCOduring the gasification process. The alkali hydroxide MOH and alkali carbonate MCOcatalyzes the carbon steam reaction in the gasifier and remains in a molten phase throughout the process as the gasifier is maintained at a gasification temperature exceeding 400 C. The alkali hydroxide may be a mixture of KOH NaOH and LiOH in order to generate a favorable molten temperature based on the temperature and pressure of the gasification process. Other alkali species such as rubidium or cesium are equally technically qualified. The alkali carbonate MCOis typically comprised of KCO NaCO and LiCO and depends on the composition of the alkali hydroxide utilized. Maintaining the alkali hydroxide MOH and alkali carbonate MCOin molten phase improves the kinetics and allows for separation of the molten MCOand the methane rich syngas through buoyancy and gravity effects.

At gasifier having gasification zone is maintained at a gasification temperature of at least 400 C. In an embodiment the gasification temperature is between 400 900 C. and the gasification pressure is greater than 10 atmospheres preferably 20 atmospheres or greater. Gasification zone contains a gasification mixture of a carbonaceous fuel HO and an alkali hydroxide MOH where M is the alkali metal cation K Na Li or mixtures thereof. At the gasification temperature and gasification pressure within gasification zone the HO is present as steam. Additionally the alkali hydroxide MOH exists in a molten state and alkali carbonates MCOexist in a molten state. The formation of MCOfrom the alkali hydroxide MOH is expected during the gasification operation within gasification zone as will be discussed infra.

The gasification mixture is comprised of relative amounts of the carbonaceous fuel the alkali hydroxide MOH and the HO such that for each mole of carbon there is at least 0.15 and less than 2 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH and at least 0.25 and less than 2 moles of HO. Preferably the gasification mixture is comprised of at least 0.5 moles and less than 1.5 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon. These relative amounts allows the production of a methane rich syngas within gasification zone at the conditions specified by enabling a series of reactions which generate Hand CH and mitigate the reforming of methane while balancing available COcapture and water gas shift such that methane rich syngas produced includes a relative minimum of CO and CO.

The carbonaceous fuel is a fuel or gasifiable material which contains carbon in an elemental or chemically combined form. As used here the term carbonaceous fuel encompasses carbohydrates coal and hydrocarbon materials including organic polymers. The carbonaceous fuel may be mixed and or chemically combined with for example halogens sulfur nitrogen or other chemical entities and may occur naturally or may be man made and may be solid liquid or gas at ambient temperatures. Exemplary carbonaceous fuels include coal cellulosic materials biomass hydrocarbon fuels municipal chemical and refining wastes and the like. In a particular embodiment the carbonaceous fuel is coal. The carbonaceous fuel will typically be present in the gasification mixture as a plurality of particles having an average size as defined by mesh number or another measurement standard known in the art. High volatile wastes and coals are a preferred fuel for the production of the methane rich syngas since methane and ethane will issue from the coal during pyrolysis and the conditions established within gasification zone will greatly mitigate any methane reforming or methane oxidizing reactions which would otherwise be expected under a typical gasification operation.

The alkali hydroxide MOH is a chemical compound comprised of an alkali metal cation Mand the hydroxide anion OH where the alkali metal cation is K Na Li or mixtures thereof. In an embodiment the alkali hydroxide MOH is comprised of KOH NaOH and LiOH in an equimolar ratio of 1 1 1 respectively. However the specific composition of the alkali hydroxide MOH is not limiting within this disclosure provided that the alkali hydroxide MOH of KOH NaOH LiOH RbOH CsOH or the mixture thereof is present such that there is at least 0.15 and less than 2 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH per mole of carbon in the gasification mixture and such that at the gasification temperature within gasification zone the alkali hydroxide MOH and an alkali carbonate MCOexist in a molten state. Correspondingly the specific relative proportions of KOH NaOH and LiOH utilized in order to generate the necessary molar relation between carbon and the alkali hydroxide MOH may be formulated based on the eutectics of the resulting mixture such that the alkali hydroxide MOH and the subsequent alkali carbonate MCOexist in the molten state at the gasification temperature within gasification zone .

At and generally speaking within gasification zone at the gasification temperature and gasification pressure a gasification mixture as disclosed here is expected to proceed through relatively sequential stages of drying devolatilization and the gasification of resulting char. Devolatilization is expected to generate the solid char various gaseous products such as HO CO CO CH H HS COS and others and an organic residue of tar. See e.g. Higman et al. Elsevier Science U.S.A. 2003 . Additionally primary and secondary fragmentation of the carbonaceous fuel particles may occur. See e.g. Ammendola et al. Devolatilization and Attrition Behavior of Fuel Pellets during Fluidized Bed Gasification 25 3 2011 . Subsequent gasification of the char is typically significantly slower than devolatization however depending on heating rate fuel particle size and other factors devolatization and char gasification may proceed somewhat concurrently.

With respect to the process disclosed here the carbonaceous fuel undergoes drying and devolatization while subject to a gasification temperature of 400 C. or greater preferably 400 900 C. The char gasification generates the following representative reactions C HO CO H 1 CO HO CO H 2 CO 3H CH HO 3 CO 2MOH MCO HO 4 

As is understood reactions occurring during char gasification are complex and are expected to encompass additional reactions beyond the representative reactions 1 through 4 listed above however speaking generally and without being bound by theory reactions 1 through 4 act in the conditions of gasification zone and the molar relations of the gasification fixture to generate the methane rich syngas. In addition to the input of coal water and alkali hydroxides it may be beneficial to add non reacting species such as alkali chlorides and sulfides to lower the melting point of the molten species inside the gasifier which lowers the viscosity of the molten bed and improves the removal of the molten material from the gasifier.

The alkali hydroxide MOH and subsequently formed alkali carbonate MCOact to catalyze the carbon steam reaction of reaction 1 generating CO and H. The reversible gas phase water gas shift of reaction 2 reaches equilibrium rapidly at the gasification temperature and acts to balance the concentrations of CO HO CO and H. The reversible methanation of reaction 3 additionally occurs to establish an equilibrium between CO H CH and HO.

The alkali hydroxide MOH in the molten state acts to remove to some portion of COand form molten alkali carbonate MCOvia reaction 4 and the rapid acting reaction 2 responds to the decreased COconcentration by proceeding in the forward direction to generate additional CO. With an excess of alkali hydroxide KOH these actions would be expected to rapidly lock up available carbon in the mixture and result in gasification gases comprised mainly of Hand extremely limited CH. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 3 786 138 to Shalit et al among others. However within the gasification mixture disclosed here and as discussed infra this alkali hydroxide MOH action is limited by the composition of the gasification mixture where for each mole of carbon there is at least 0.15 and less than 2 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH. This particular molar relationship prevents the alkali hydroxide MOH from continuously removing all CO and maintains a concentration of CO and HO within the gasification gases to counter the reverse methanation reaction.

Additionally the alkali hydroxide MOH and alkali carbonate MCOserves as a catalyst for the carbon steam reaction of reaction 1 and may additionally catalyze the methanation reaction 3 .

As is understood the alkali hydroxide MOH may additionally act to mitigate the concentration of additional gases created through the volatization and gasification of the carbonaceous fuel such as the mitigation of HS and HCl through the formation of MS and MCl and may additionally react with other compounds incidentally present during the process such as AlSiO.

The methanation reaction 3 is a reversible reaction and may proceed in the forward direction for the generation of CHand HO or may generate methane reforming by proceeding in the reverse direction generating CO and H. The reverse methane reforming reaction is endothermic and can have significant impact at temperatures greater than 600 C. when sufficient HO inventories are available. However within the gasification mixture disclosed here and as discussed infra methane reforming is limited by the composition of the gasification mixture where for each mole of carbon there is at least 0.25 and less than 2 moles of HO available. This balance provides sufficient HO for the production of CO and Hvia reaction 1 while limiting the HO available for the destruction of volatized and generated CHthrough the reverse direction of reaction 3 . Similarly limiting the presence of the alkali hydroxide MOH additionally serves to mitigate any methane reforming by limiting the absorption of COand the resulting water gas shift of reaction 2 to further reduce CO concentrations and drive the methanation reaction 3 toward CO and H destroying available CH. Additionally an increased gasification pressure in gasification zone will aid in driving reaction 3 toward the production of CHand HO. Preferably the gasification pressure is greater than 10 atmospheres more preferably the gasification pressure is 20 atmospheres or greater.

The process disclosed thereby generates a syngas rich in hydrogen and methane by using a molten bed of alkali hydroxide MOH for the capture of COby generating alkali carbonate MCO. In order to maintain CHabove roughly 20 dry molar percentage while operating above 400 C. a molar ratio of carbon alkali hydroxide MOH and HO is specified.

In an embodiment the alkali hydroxide MOH is comprised of at least 5 mol KOH. The KOH KCOacts as a catalyst for the carbon steam reaction as well as catalyzing the production of methane. In another embodiment the alkali hydroxide MOH is comprised of equimolar amounts of KOH NaOH and LiOH. The equimolar KOH NaOH LiOH acts to provide the alkali metal cation M while establishing a eutectic mixture of carbonates which exist in the molten state at gasification temperatures generally around 400 C. In addition an equal molar mixture of Li Na K allows the alkali hydroxides to melt at temperatures below the boiling point of water at 20 atm pressure. Using a eutectic mixture of alkali species simplifies the process of flowing the hydroxides into the gasifier and the process of flowing the carbonates out of the gasifier.

In an embodiment gasification zone is a co current gasification zone where the mixture enters the gasification zone at mixture inlet and the carbonaceous fuel is surrounded by the alkali hydroxide MOH and the HO. The carbonaceous fuel alkali hydroxide MOH and HO move generally co currently from mixture inlet through gasification zone as gasification occurs and gasification gases and molten carbonate MCOdischarge from the co current gasification into a separation vessel .

Following the gasification process gasification gases comprised of Hand CHare separated from the alkali carbonate MCOto generate the methane rich syngas. As specified within gasification zone the gasification temperature is sufficient to maintain the alkali carbonate MCOin a molten state. Typically the gasification temperature is also sufficient to maintain selected incidental products such as MS and MCl in the molten state. Separation of the methane rich syngas and the molten alkali carbonate MCOmay be generated through various gas liquid separation means known in the art. An exemplary method is illustrated at where gasification zone is in fluid communication with separation vessel . Separation vessel is an open vessel receiving a discharge of gasification gases and molten alkali carbonate MCOmotivated through reaction zone by gravity and pressure effects. The gasification gases and molten alkali carbonate MCOseparate through buoyancy and gravity effects in separation vessel and methane rich syngas rises and is collected through syngas discharge while the molten alkali carbonate flows out of separation vessel and through alkali carbonate discharge . The methane rich syngas is comprised of Hand CH some amount of CO and CO and may also be comprised of other gases generated within the gasification process. Generally the process as disclosed here produces a methane rich syngas comprised of greater than 70 mol H greater than 18 mol CH less than 10 mol CO and CO and about 2.5 mol ethane ethylene when the carbonaceous fuel is coal. Additionally the molten alkali carbonate MCOmay be accompanied by various other compounds in both molten and solid phase such as molten MS MCl or solid compounds such as MAlSiO.

In another embodiment the mixture is generated as a slurry of carbonaceous fuel liquid water and alkali hydroxide MOH. The slurry is comprised of the respective components in molar quantities equivalent to that specified for the gasification mixture. The slurry then enters gasification zone at mixture inlet through pumping power or some other motive force appropriate for the movement of the solid liquid slurry and the slurry is heated to the gasification temperature in gasification zone .

In another embodiment the gasification process disclosed operates within an IGFC cycle and the methane rich syngas is discharged to the anode of a high temperature fuel cell such as a pressurized SOFC. Such IGFC cycles are enhanced by operation with methane rich syngas because methane reforming occurs within the operating temperature and pressure conditions of the SOFC reducing the burden on parasitic heat removal process associated with the SOFC such as the compression of SOFC cooling air or the compression a coolant to remove heat from the SOFC. In another embodiment waste heat or gas or both from the hot anode of the SOFC are recirculated and transferred to the gasification zone in order to maintain the gasification temperature in gasification zone and to increase the efficiency of the overall power plant. An additional advantage of the process disclosed here is the generation of the methane rich syngas at elevated pressures which significantly aids with integration into an IGFC where the SOFC may operate at pressures in excess of 5 atmospheres.

In order to measure the kinetics of molten catalytic gasification of coal and to measure the methane composition in the syngas a molten catalytic reactor was constructed along with associated equipment required for operation of the reactor. The equipment consisted of a pressure vessel with a ceramic crucible at the bottom holding the alkali hydroxide MOH and coal. A tube carrying steam was placed inside of the ceramic crucible so that steam passed through a molten bed of coal and alkali hydroxide MOH. Syngas exited the reactor and liquids were condensed before going through a pressure controller. Following the pressure controller the syngas was sent to a Pfeiffer OMNISTAR mass spectrometer. Alternatively the syngas was occasionally sampled just before the pressure controller in order to check mass spectrometer results with gas chromatography. All experiments were semi continuous meaning that there was a set amount of coal and catalyst loaded into the reactor and then there was a continuous flow of steam into the reactor. As a result by the end of a run the coal was mostly consumed and the main gas species in the pre quenched syngas was just the water being continuously added. The composition of unconverted water in the syngas was not measured because there were two liquid condensers before the mass spectrometer.

The flow rate of syngas was determined by adding in a known amount of argon 10 sccm throughout the experiment. For all experiments Pittsburgh 8 coal 100 mesh was utilized. In some experiments fresh coal was used while in others devolitalized coal was used. Devolatization of coal was performed at 700 C. for 4 hours in an argon atmosphere. After devolitalization the coal was ground down to approximately 20 mesh. The devolitalized coal was then mixed with the alkali hydroxide MOH and devolitalized a second time before the experiment began. This devolitalization process was used in order to determine steam carbon gasification reaction rates and to quantify the non volatile methane production.

For all experiments the coal and the alkali hydroxide MOH was added dry such that there was a 1 1 molar ratio between carbon in the coal and the alkali species. Equimolar amounts of Li Na and K were used generating a ratio of elements on a mol basis of C Li Na K 3 1 1 1. The elemental analysis of the coal by dry wt was C 83.2 H 5.3 O 8.8 S 2.2 . On an ash free dry mol basis this is 54 C 41 H 4.3 O and 0.5 S. For the devolatized coal a proximate analysis was used to determine the carbon remaining in the coal.

Table 1 shows the production averaged syngas composition from the molten catalytic gasifier as a function of temperature of the reactor when the pressure was held constant at 2.1 MPa. Production averaged means that the total amount of species x produced during the experiment divided by the total amount of syngas during the experiment. The highest average methane composition achieved was 18 while at the same time producing 2.5 ethane ethylene. It was not possible to accurately differentiate between ethane and ethylene in the mass spectrometer so the values presented are the sum of ethane plus ethylene. By adding the methane plus twice the ethane ethylene this gives an equivalent amount of methane of 23 . The optimal methane composition was obtained at 800 C. and 2.1 MPa. The largest rate of total syngas formation occurred at 900 C. There is a significant amount of HS capture inside of the gasifier because the production averaged composition of HS without alkali hydroxide MOH addition was on the order of 2000 ppm at 700 C. while the production averaged composition of HS in the presence of the alkali hydroxide MOH was on the order of 100 600 ppm. Using an Arrhenius plot and the data for kinetic rates versus temperature the activation energy barrier for molten alkali catalyzed gasification of fresh Pittsburgh 8 coal with steam was found to be approximately of 59 kJ mol. The amount of COand CO as well as HS and CHto a lesser extent increased with increasing temperatures whereas the methane and ethane composition were relatively independent of temperature. The reason why the methane and ethane composition do not decrease with increasing temperature as one would initially expect from thermodynamic arguments is that at higher temperatures there is less steam available to reform the methane and ethane into CO and H because of the higher kinetic rates of steam coal gasification. As a result Le Chatelier s principle would predict less methane and ethane at higher temperature but Le Chatelier s principle would also predict more methane and ethane as the steam is consumed. The two effects seemingly cancel with each other and there is very little change in the methane and ethane composition as temperature in the reactor increased.

Table 2 illustrates the syngas composition as well as the kinetic rates of steam coal gasification as a function of pressure of the vessel when the temperature was held constant at 700 C. As expected there was an increase in the methane concentration as the pressure was increased. In this set of experiments the coal was pyrolyzed before using it in the reactor in order to rule out any change in the amount of pyrolysis gases as a function of pressure. The results at Table 2 confirm predicted larger amounts of methane at higher pressures. The increased pressure also had a positive effect on the reaction rates.

Thus the process as disclosed here provides a gasification process for the production of a methane rich syngas at temperatures exceeding 400 C. through the use of an alkali hydroxide MOH using a gasification mixture comprised of at least 0.25 moles and less than 2 moles of water for each mole of carbon and at least 0.15 moles and less than 2 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon. Preferably the gasification mixture is comprised of at least 0.5 moles and less than 1.5 moles of alkali hydroxide MOH for each mole of carbon. These relative amounts allow the production of a methane rich syngas at temperatures exceeding 400 C. by enabling a series of reactions which generate Hand CH and mitigate the reforming of methane. The alkali hydroxide MOH and subsequently formed alkali carbonate MCOact to catalyze the carbon steam reaction of reaction and the alkali hydroxide MOH in the molten state acts to remove to some portion of COand form molten alkali carbonate MCO. The specified molar relations limit the alkali hydroxide MOH and HO actions to maintain a concentration of CO and HO such that reverse methanation is greatly mitigated and a methane rich syngas comprised of roughly 20 dry molar percentage CHat temperatures above 400 C. results. The gasification process disclosed may effectively operate within an IGFC cycle at temperatures between 400 900 C. and pressures in excess of 5 atmospheres.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

