---

title: Microparticulate feeder for larval and juvenile fishes
abstract: A feeder for larval and juvenile fishes is capable of delivering a small (ca. 15 mg) precise dose of microparticulate (ca. 100 μm diameter) feed to selected locations, via pneumatic conveyance and control. A source of low-pressure dry gas is used to blow microparticulate feed through a manifold and into a selected one of a number of tubes. A terminal valve at the end of the tube is selectively activated to send the feed to a selected tank or pond. When not in use, the feeder is sealed, and the feed protected from moisture and ambient oxygen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113615&OS=09113615&RS=09113615
owner: 
number: 09113615
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140314
---
The research that led to the development of the present invention was sponsored by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration s NOAA s National Marine Fisheries Service NMFS . NOAA is a part of the U.S. Department of Commerce a component of the U.S. Federal government. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to fish feeder. In particular the present invention is directed toward a microparticulate feeder for larval and juvenile fishes.

Microparticulate diets for larval and small juvenile fish pose specific challenges for aquaculturists. Microparticulate diets by definition have a very high specific surface area making them vulnerable to the effects of oxidation and hydration. Many of the diet components are often labile and hygroscopic which further exacerbates the problem. Fine hygroscopic particles tend to clump and cake together and adhere to surfaces with which they come in contact making rationing and delivery difficult to achieve by automation. See e.g. Michael B. Rust The Challenges of Feeding Microparticulate Diets to Larval Fish February 2000 pages 19 20 and Juan P. Law et al Co feeding microparticulate diets with algae toward eliminating the need for zooplankton at first feeding in larval red drum 188 2000 pages 339 351 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The digestive system of larval fish is slow to develop so artificial diets fed to them must have a high leaching rate in order to make nutrients available to the larvae that ingest the diets. This high leaching rate is a two edged sword in that upon contact with the water nutrients are often lost to solution before the larvae can ingest them. Larval fish also have no body energy reserves to call upon and so they require a constant stream of available nutritive feed. To circumvent this problem culturists often employ a technique called feeding the water where feed is delivered in pulses to excess. The feed is either eaten falls to the bottom of the tank or is cleared by the exchange of circulating water in the tank. This technique unfortunately creates an alternating feast and famine situation that is conducive to neither good nutrition nor good hygiene.

Small juvenile fish have a digestive system and some reserves however they still require frequent feeding and accurate rations. Feeding early juvenile fish can be prohibitively expensive in terms of husbandry labor. Most of this labor is rationing and feeding. Accuracy of ration is paramount in diet trials where growth and feed conversion are correlated to the diet actually consumed by the fish therefore feeding the water will not work. An accurate ration is calculated based upon what the fish can be expected to eat in one feeding and must be precisely delivered for a diet trial experiment to succeed.

There are a number of Prior Art Patents relating to various fish feeders. The following is a summary of a number of those Prior Art Patents.

Belloma U.S. Pat. No. 6 715 442 issued Apr. 6 2004 and incorporated herein by reference discloses a fish feeder having inner and outer trays which move relative to one another to dispense fish feed using gravity. Belloma discloses using a pneumatic actuator to power the device.

Patterson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 571 736 issued Jun. 3 2003 and incorporated herein by reference discloses a fish feeder for use with moist fish feed. The moist feed disclosed are pellets of the type used with fish farming. A blower is used to direct the fish pellets towards a fish pen through a nozzle attached to the device.

Lin U.S. Pat. No. 6 192 830 issued Feb. 27 2001 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an underwater fish feeder than uses compressed air. Compressed air is used to eject fish feed from a remote fish feed holder.

Halford U.S. Pat. No. 6 082 299 issued Jun. 4 2000 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic fish feeder using a screw type mechanism to eject fish feed from a hopper which then falls into the fish tank.

Evans et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 709 166 issued Jan. 20 1998 and incorporated herein by reference discloses a refrigerated automatic fish feeder.

Flahs II U.S. Pat. No. 5 353 745 issued Oct. 11 1994 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an Aquaculture system and methods for using same. A feeding hopper FIG. 5 is used to gravity feed the diet to the tank. A gas ejector 110 is used to spread the feed over the surface.

Masopust U.S. Pat. No. 5 199 381 issued Apr. 6 1993 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic fish feeder using a rotating disc.

Newton et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 072 695 issued Dec. 17 1991 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic fish feeder using a rotating wheel.

Smelzer U.S. Pat. No. 4 628 864 issued Dec. 16 1986 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic fish feeder which is water driven. A water filled container drives a rotating arm.

Olsen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 429 660 issued Feb. 7 1984 and incorporated herein by reference discloses a Water Powered Fish Feeder. As with Smelzer water drives a lever arm to dispense fish feed.

Molinar U.S. Pat. No. 4 399 588 issued Aug. 23 1983 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic fish feeder and orienter. This device actually orients individual fishes for feeding.

Suchowski U.S. Pat. No. 4 089 299 issued May 16 1978 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an air operated fish feeder. This device which is immersed in a fish tank is operated by air pressure apparently from an aquarium pump.

Hoday et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 738 328 issued Jun. 12 1973 and incorporated herein by reference discloses a Fish Feeder for an aquarium which is driven by a clock motor.

Sanders U.S. Pat. No. 3 717 125 issued Feb. 20 1973 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic feeder for a fish aquarium. A piston slides a rod which takes feed from a hopper and passes it to the aquarium once a day.

Cook U.S. Pat. No. 3 231 314 issued Jan. 25 1966 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic fish feeder using a blower motor for dispensing palletized fish feed to a fish tank. A hopper dispenses fish feed to two fish tanks via two parallel discharge ducts Col. 3 lines 12 41 . A reciprocating metering plate dispenses fish feed from the hopper. A blower is used to force the feed to two tanks at the same time and to dry the ducts.

Appleton U.S. Pat. No. 3 050 029 issued Aug. 21 1962 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic fish feeder of the disc variety.

Smolin U.S. Pat. No. 2 785 831 issued May 28 1953 and incorporated herein by reference discloses an automatic fish feeder with a rotating shaft which dispenses a measured amount from a hopper via gravity feed.

The Arvotec T Drum 2000 Feeder see. e.g. brochure Huutokosken Arovkala Group Huutokoski Finland and Arvotec Huutokoski Finland and brochure Huutokosken Arovkala Group Huutokoski Finland all of which are incorporated herein by reference discloses a hopper type feeder with a compressed air dispersal unit. Compressed air is used to blow the feed from a chute onto the surface of a fish tank. Note the dosing drum designs Page 9 of the Feeding Technology Manual and the nature of the compressed air dispersal unit Page 9 of the Feeder and Spreader manual .

The Arvotec Feeding Technology manual also discloses the use of a centralized pipe feeding system with a manifold and a number of pipes to feed different tanks. Each manifold may feed up to four tanks and up to 28 tanks may be fed. It appears each manifold has a switching device to direct feed to a different tank via a 3 open ended pipe. However as with the Cook reference this embodiment uses a blower to blow feed through large 3 open pipes. The problem with such a design as with Cook the open ended pipes above fish tanks may harbor moisture making such a design unsuitable particularly for microparticulate feeds which may cake and clog in the piping. The brochure states that the number of pipes is reduced which makes cleaning easier. However this seems to be an admission that runs of piping with fish feed and moisture contamination could require frequent cleaning. Moist caked on fish feed in such pipes would be an ideal environment for the growth of bacteria fungus and mildew which could in turn sicken or kill the fish or larva being fed.

To avoid this problem Arvotec shows another robotic embodiment where one or more hopper type feeders are mounted on a monorail which in turn is moved over a plurality of tanks to distribute the feed. The problem with this design is that the hoppers need to be refilled over time. To solve this problem in another embodiment long hoses are used to refill the hoppers from even larger hoppers. However such a design results in a large number of expensive components hoppers blowers hoses and the like adding to cost and complexity. Moreover the hoses need to be made flexible enough to avoid interfering with the operation of the monorail. The robotic solution is rather costly and over designed.

In another embodiment the Arvotec Feeder shows a rotating drum feeder where the drum rotates to measure a portion of feed determined by cutout sizes in the drum and when rotating dumps these onto a dispersal plate. Compressed air is used to spray the feed over the surface of the water. In one embodiment which is illustrated on a YouTube video compressed air is used to disperse the fish feed pellets. From the video as well as the product catalogs it appears that the feeder merely dumps feed onto a plate which in turn uses a timed charge of compressed air to spray onto the surface of a fish tank. In another embodiment a rotary spinner type spreader is used. The feeder in that embodiment is mounted above the tank and thus does not solve the problem of moisture contaminating the fish feed.

The most common shortcoming of all these prior feeders is that they don t protect the feed from the effects of moisture and oxygen. Since most feeders dispense the feed directly above the fish tank they subject the feed to a highly humid environment. The hygroscopic nature of larvae feeds results in feed eventually caking and accumulating on the feeder surfaces resulting in deterioration of both the feed quality and the accuracy and precision of the dispensed ration.

The challenge then is to create a feeder that can repeatedly and automatically deliver a small precise amount of a fragile and functionally difficult material and protect the feed from the environment when not in use. It remains a requirement in the art to provide a feeder which may be used to feed multiple tanks without the need for large tubes as well as avoiding moisture and caking in such tubes which would as a result require frequent cleaning. And it remains a requirement in the art to provide such a feeder in a simple and straightforward manner that minimizes the number of components cost and complexity of the device.

The present invention improves upon the Prior Art by overcoming the environmental challenges that lead to inconstant rationing and reduced feed quality associated with other feeders. By separating the dosing dispenser from the terminal delivery the feed can be protected from the humid environment above the fish tank. A sealed rotating chamber further protects the feed in the hopper from moisture and oxygen between feedings. In addition to conveying the feed the gas dries both the feed and the tubing and terminal valve during feeding. Thus the system avoids accumulation of feed on surfaces exposed to the atmosphere.

The small ca. 15 mg precisely sized portion dispensed by the feeder of the present invention affords a greater control of the feeding schedule so that fish can be fed evenly over time or for growth trials to a precise ration. In recent tests the feeder of the present invention was used to compare repeated accumulations of feed from ten cycles of the rotating chamber. The feed was trapped by a mineral oil bath in a tared beaker. After five repetitions the standard deviation is generally 3 of the mean accumulated weight. In tests of the manifold system a standard deviation of 5 of the mean was achieved after 200 rations delivered to each of two terminal valves ten cycles each at 15 min. intervals over five hours. The test feedings were initially spread out over five hours to relieve the duty cycle of the controlling solenoids ensuring that they did not overheat. Subsequent testing has shown this to be unnecessary and tests are now conducted at five minute intervals.

Referring to the feeder of the present invention uses a manifold delivery system as shown in attached to a central dispensing unit . Thus one feeder can feed several fish tanks. The feeder dispenses a discrete volume of feed determined by a chamber in a rotating shaft rotating within housing . The feed is loaded into the chamber by gravity from a sealed hopper above the chamber . A small vibrator attached to the hopper aids in settling the feed into the chamber. Vibrator may comprise a cell phone type vibrator commonly known in the cell phone art. The chamber includes an L shaped airway radially situated through the shaft . Shaft is supported by O rings which act as bearings. The chamber is isolated by the O rings which also act as seals.

The shaft is rotated back and forth through an 180 arc via a pneumatic actuator such as the Parker PRNA20S 180 905 pneumatic actuator made by Parker Kuroda of Chiba Japan. See e.g. product specification sheets Parker Kuroda Chiba Japan incorporated herein by reference. Actuator may be coupled to shaft by setscrews . The actuator shaft and feed hopper may all be supported by a PVC housing . In one embodiment the dispenser housing is machined from one piece of solid PVC. Shaft may be made of polyacetal resin and be approximately in diameter to match the inner diameter of housing . Epoxy potting may be used to ensure an interference fit against the shaft at the loading port of the housing .

Rotary actuator may be coupled to a pressurized gas source via connectors which may comprise push to connect 5 32 tubing fittings. As will be discussed in more detail below in connection with pressure to rotary actuator may be controlled electronically via solenoid valves to time the system to dispense feed to individual feeders using a pre programmed controller.

LED may be used to indicate to the user that the vibrator has been activated. Most hatchery environs are too noisy to hear the vibrator being actuated and LED provides a visual indication in such a noisy environment. In addition if multiple feeders are used as in the case of a diet study where multiple diets are being tested against one another then LEDs of different colors distinguish which feeder is being deployed.

A small one way vent valve such as the CVT 18VL check valve made by Industrial Specialties Mfg. IS Med Specialties of Englewood Colo. see. e.g. the Specialties Mfg. IS Med Specialties CVT 18VL spec sheet incorporated herein by reference may be attached near the top of the hopper next to the LED. Its function is to vent any excess pressure from gas that blows into the hopper. Typically this occurs when the shaft is rotated into the load position thus venting the previously pressurized manifold. The gas passes upwards through the feed keeping it loose and desiccated.

As illustrated in the exit port is connected via a distribution manifold and tubing to one or more terminal valves RV located at one or more fish tanks. Distribution manifold may comprise a plurality of Y type tubing manifolds connected in series in order to provide the desired number of outlets. A number of different manifold designs were tried and the common tube style was rejected as feed hangs up in it and then breaks off to dispense randomly. Thus the multiple Y design as shown as element in is used and it works quite well with no hang up.

The terminal valves RV may comprise a pneumatically operated pinch valve such as the RedValve 2600 manufactured by Red Valve Company Inc. of Carnegie Pa. that seals the tubing when not in use. See e.g. 2600 brochure Red Valve Company Inc. Carnegie Pa. incorporated herein by reference. The actuator and terminal valves are pneumatically controlled via computer driven solenoids S while the carrier gas supply is controlled via solenoid valve S as illustrated in .

In one embodiment corresponding colored polyethylene tubing may be used for the manifold and dispenser tubing to make it easier to know which tanks are being fed. Separate manifolds may be required to avoid cross contamination of test diets in general feeding this would not be necessary. A second LED in the solenoid activation circuit may also indicate which solenoid is activated and which corresponding tank is being fed.

Output of dessicator D is fed to regulator R which may be provided with gauge G so that pressure may be adjusted to appropriate levels as previously discussed. Gas pressure used is typically between 3 5 psi static and 1 2 psi dynamic. Flowmeter F measures flow of gas generally 5 10 Lpm for use in dispensing microparticulate feed. Solenoid valve S may be activated to pass this lower pressure gas to port of dispenser to force the metered portion of microparticulate feed through manifold though tubing and out of an opened one of a plurality of terminal valves RV. For the purposes of this application the terms carrier gas is used to describe the dried lower pressure gas used to force the microparticulate feed though the system. The term actuator gas is used herein to describe the higher pressure gas used to activate terminal valves and the actuator.

The use of dried compressed air or other gases represents an improvement over Prior Art devices which attempt to use blowers and the like to blow feed to multiple fish tanks. Blowers using atmospheric air do not provide a means for drying the air and thus may result in caking and clogging if microparticulate feed is used. For that reason Prior Art systems using blowers and the like are generally limited to pellitized feed which is less likely to cake or clog due to moisture.

Gas supply may also be used for actuator gas to control terminal valves RV. As the actuator gas used to control actuator of dispenser as well as terminal valves RV is not in contact with the microparticulate feed higher pressure compressed air may be used for this purpose. Hence as illustrated in the actuator gas supply is connected directly to three way solenoid valves S and actuator of dispenser without passing through dessicator D regulator R or flowmeter F. The actuator gas may be in the range of substantially 30 50 psi as needed to actuate the components of the present invention.

The actuator gas is used to activate these components as it reduces the risk of electrocution both to workers in the facility and to the fish. Having fish feeding devices with electrical components hanging over fish tanks or ponds or in near proximity thereof creates a risk that power leads may come in contact with water electrocuting and injuring or killing the fish or a worker in the hatchery or fish farm. Thus the present invention utilizes compressed actuator gas such as compressed dried air to reduce this hazard. In addition electrical components may be more susceptible to corrosion and shorting and thus may be less reliable in a marine or aqueous environment.

As illustrated in the timing of the entire device feeding timing and frequency correct stepping of the dispensing unit and distribution via manifold and terminal valve sequencing may be controlled via a laptop computer e.g. Macintosh or the like running Indigo home automation software available from Perceptive Automation of Allen Tex. One or more control modules may be coupled to laptop computer to convert signals from laptop computer into electrical control signals to actuate solenoid valves S and S . Such control modules may comprise a Z Wave INSTEON or X10 control module as is known in the art for use with Indigo software.

Conceivably any precision timing program may operate the unit. A user may already possess specific feeding program software which may be modified to operate the apparatus of the present invention. Such timing devices and automation software are known in the art and are not described in detail herein.

When the timing program determines that it is time to feed a particular tank of fish the timing software activates three way solenoid valves S to supply and vent gas to actuator of dispenser . Both three way solenoid valves S are activated to rotate the actuator. Solenoid valve goes from normally closed vent to open while solenoid valve goes from normally open to closed vent . Both solenoids are used to operate the actuator one to drive it one direction one to drive it back. In each direction one of solenoid valves is not driving it is venting. Actuator then rotates shaft into the load position as illustrated in and feed drops into chamber . Vibrator may turn on and off while the chamber is in the load position. Solenoids S are then reversed and actuator rotates shaft into discharge position as illustrated in . Solenoid S is then actuated passing dried lower pressure carrier gas through dispenser via carrier gas port and out through exit port blowing the dispensed feed with it.

At the same time or a similar time when solenoid S is activated one or more in the preferred embodiment one of three way solenoid valve S is activated to vent compressed actuator gas in order to open one of the terminal valves RV. All unused terminal valves are in the pressurized state and the three way valve S allows the line to vent when activated. As only one of the terminal valves RV is open at any given time the feed being blown through dispensing unit passes through the corresponding tubing from manifold and onto the surface of the water of the fish tank or pond. As dry compressed air or other gases are being used to as carrier gas to disperse the microparticulate feed the feed does not cake or clog and moreover is less likely to oxidize or spoil.

Rather than use a switching manifold to deliver feed as in the Arvotec device described in the Background of the Invention the present invention controls the path the microparticulate feed takes by pneumatically opening a corresponding terminal valve RV. Since the carrier gas follows the path to the open valve the microparticulate feed is transferred to the correct tank. This approach has a number of advantages over the Prior Art. A switching manifold mechanism would tend to clog and cake with fish feed after a time which would then require frequent cleaning in order to work properly. In contrast in the present invention a contiguous manifold is used with no switching or directing mechanism and thus no mechanism to clog. Since a dry compressed carrier gas is used in the manifold and tubing the microparticulate feed will not cake or clog but instead be transmitted to the desired tank. Even if some small amount of feed particles remain in the manifold or tubing the dry sealed compressed gas environment prevents the feed from clogging or caking. In contrast the Arvotec system using open ended tubes and a blower sending undried atmospheric air would require periodic cleanings to prevent clogging as mentioned in their literature. The use of a four way switching manifold in that design adds unnecessary complexity and cost to the design.

In the present invention control of quantity and timing of feeding can be readily programmed using control software as previously described. Using different shaft elements which provide different chamber sizes may control the quantity of feed dispensed. However it may be easier if additional feed quantities are required to instead provide multiple feedings using a single chamber size 150. Thus for example in the preferred embodiment a 15 mg chamber is provided which is suitable for test feeding smaller tanks. If it is desired to provide 30 45 or 60 mg of feed the device may be simply actuated two three or four times or more in sequence to provide the quantity of feed required.

Similarly the timing of feeding may be altered and programmed at will to provide feedings at different times during the day once a day or whatever requirements are needed for a particular fish or larva feeding program. A number of different tanks may be fed using one dispenser by using a plurality of terminal valves RV one for each tank. For larger tanks multiple valves RV may be used which may be activated individually or in concert if desired. The device may also be used to feed a single tank. While illustrated in as feeding four tanks other numbers of terminal valves RV and associated solenoids S may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

By timing the operation of the vibrator the terminal valve the pneumatic actuator and the carrier gas the feeder is loaded locked discharged and the feed is conveyed to the water s surface in the fish tank. When not in use the feed in the hopper is sealed and protected from moisture and ambient oxygen. An option is available to introduce dry nitrogen as a purge gas to the tubing chamber and hopper at the end of each cycle to ensure a dry and inert atmosphere if desired.

What distinguishes the feeder of the present invention from others is the ability to overcome the environmental challenges that lead to inconstant rationing and reduced feed quality associated with other feeders. By separating the dosing dispenser from the terminal delivery the feed can be protected from the humid environment above the fish tank. The sealed rotating chamber further protects the feed in the hopper from moisture and oxygen between feedings. In addition to conveying the feed the carrier gas dries both the feed and the tubing and terminal valve during feeding. Thus the system avoids accumulation of feed on surfaces exposed to the atmosphere.

The small ca. 15 mg precisely sized portion dispensed by the feeder of the present invention affords a greater control of the feeding schedule so that fish can be fed evenly over time or for growth trials to a precise ration. In recent tests the feeder of the present invention was used to compare repeated accumulations of feed from ten cycles of the rotating chamber. The feed was trapped by a mineral oil bath in a tared beaker. After five repetitions the standard deviation is generally 3 of the mean accumulated weight. In tests of the manifold system an average standard deviation of 5 of the mean was achieved after 200 rations delivered to each of two terminal valves ten cycles each at 15 min. intervals over five hours. The test feedings were initially spread out over five hours to relieve the duty cycle of the controlling solenoids ensuring that they did not overheat. Subsequent testing has shown this to be unnecessary and tests are now conducted at five minute intervals.

Although described above in terms of the preferred embodiment at the time of filing of the present application the present invention may also be modified to improve durability and precision. Such modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention include 

There are also a number of potential applications for the apparatus of the present invention. The primary embodiment of the feeder is as a laboratory tool where small batches of fish are reared for experimental purposes. The feeder may also be used in small production hatcheries such as exotic fishes for the aquarium trade. A scaled up version for delivery of larger volumes of feed may be used by most commercial aquaculture facilities. While disclosed in the context of microparticulate feeds the present invention may be adapted for other types of feeds small pellitized feeds and the like by suitably modifying piping sizes and the like. In addition the feeder of the present invention may also be used to feed other types of animals or to distribute other types of particulates.

While the preferred embodiment and various alternative embodiments of the invention have been disclosed and described in detail herein it may be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

