---

title: Controlling network access using a wrapper application executing on a mobile device
abstract: Computerized methods and systems for permitting wireless access to a network by way of a wrapper application executing on the user device. The wrapper application is configured to authenticate the user device and determine a uniquely identifiable virtual persona for the user device based on successfully authenticating the device. The methods and systems selectively permit wireless access to the network by the user device via the wrapper application based on the authentication and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona. The methods and systems further include selectively executing secondary application(s) within the context of the wrapper application based on predefined criteria and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona, as well as collecting analytical information regarding the wireless network access including usage of the wrapper application and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369874&OS=09369874&RS=09369874
owner: 
number: 09369874
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141009
---
Typically controlling device access to a wireless network has been accomplished using a few limited techniques most of which involve limiting access by way of server side or router side technology. For example a wireless network operator may use a captive portal technique to control network access through the wireless access point router e.g. wireless access to the Internet. The captive portal technique forces an HTTP client on a network such as a web browser to receive a particular web page prior to allowing the HTTP traffic through the router. For example a user may attempt to access a website on their mobile device upon connecting to the operator s wireless network such as a wireless network in a coffee shop. The user may then be presented with a Terms and Conditions page that must be accepted prior to accessing the Internet or the user may be presented with a payment page to provide payment details e.g credit card information in order to access the Internet through the operator s wireless network. Once the user has performed the required steps the user s device is authorized to use the network. While this technique can be useful for basic wireless access control this technique is generally not effective for permitting certain types of traffic while restricting others. In other words once the user s device has been authorized to access the network the captive portal technique is effectively useless for preventing a user from accessing the Internet using an iTunes or Facebook mobile application.

An operator may also restrict network access by utilizing specialized hardware and software applications that permit an operator to require each user to uniquely authenticate themselves on the network based on predefined login credentials. Using this complex mixture of specialized hardware and software the operator may then specify specific levels of access for each individual. This process often requires an express synchronization of effort between the operator and each individual user i.e. one on one support to establish access levels appropriate for the user to communicate the login credentials required to access the network and to assist the user with manually configuring their device to properly connect to the network.

Generally speaking however there is presently not a middle ground for controlling network access in a manner that minimally involves the user but still allows a wireless network operator to control which types of network traffic the wireless network will accept from the user s device e.g. which mobile applications are allowed to send receive data across the wireless network.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.

A computerized method embodying aspects of the present invention for permitting wireless access to a network to a user device based on predefined criteria comprises among other things providing a wrapper application for execution on the user device and receiving at one or more wireless access point WAP devices operatively connected to the network a wireless transmission from the user device via the wrapper application requesting network access. The wrapper application is configured to authenticate the user device determine a uniquely identifiable virtual persona for the user device based on successfully authenticating the user device and selectively execute one or more secondary applications within the context of the wrapper application based on the predefined criteria and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona. The method further comprises selectively permitting by the one or more WAP devices wireless access to the network by the user device via the wrapper application based on the authentication and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona. The method additionally comprises collecting analytical information regarding the wireless network access including usage of the wrapper application and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona.

Another aspect of the present invention provides computerized method for wirelessly accessing a network via a user device the user device accessing the network via a wireless access point WAP performing wireless access control WAC . The method comprises among other things executing on the user device a wrapper application executing on the user device. The wrapper application is configured to authenticate the user device determine a uniquely identifiable virtual persona for the user device based on successfully authenticating the device and selectively execute one or more secondary applications within the context of the wrapper application based on the uniquely identifiable virtual persona. The method further comprises transmitting via the wrapper application executing on the user device a request to the wireless access point for network access with the request including said identifiable virtual persona. The method additionally comprises receiving at the user device executing the wrapper application access to the network based on the request.

For example a computerized system for providing wireless access control WAC of one or more user devices to a network via a wrapper application executing on the one or more user devices may comprise one or more wireless access point WAP devices with the one or more wireless access point devices being operatively connected to the network. The system may further comprise one or more WAC computing devices for executing computer executable instructions for performing one or more WAC functions. The functions include but are not limited to configuring the one or more WAP devices to selectively permit access to the network by the one or more user devices executing the wrapper application with the wrapper application being configured to authenticate said user device. The functions further include determining a uniquely identifiable virtual persona for the user device based on successfully authenticating the user device and selectively executing one or more secondary applications within the context of the wrapper application based on the predefined criteria and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona. The functions may also include receiving at one or more wireless access point WAP devices operatively connected to the network a wireless transmission from the user device requesting network access selectively permitting by the one or more WAP devices wireless access to the network by the user device via the wrapper application based on the authentication and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona and then collecting analytical information regarding the wireless network access including usage of the wrapper application and the uniquely identifiable virtual persona.

By way of demonstration and not limitation the wrapper application described herein advantageously facilitates the leasing of wifi high density wifi usage for mobile applications. The authorized secondary applications within the wrapper application provide wireless access to a network that is otherwise restricted in a manner that increases user engagement for the particular business venue event. The wrapper app additionally permits governance session management and security for the approved secondary applications that have been granted access to the network for the leased period of time. According to aspects of the present invention the wrapper app also provides analytics audit logs user engagement statistics and usage statistics to the business venue. By way of demonstration and not limitation the systems and methods described herein for permitting wireless network access may be advantageously used in a variety of venues to increase and track user engagement such as but not limited to sports stadiums e.g. soccer football baseball etc. educational institutions such as universities and schools convention centers zoos music concerts special interest events like ComiCon medical conventions venues that attract large numbers of people etc.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which features may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made.

Aspects of the present invention provide computerized methods and systems for permitting or otherwise restricting wireless access to a network to a user device based on among other things predefined criteria set established or otherwise enabling by an operator of the wireless network the user device is attempting to access. According to aspects as described herein wireless access to the network may be restricted by requiring any wireless access occur by and through a wrapper application executing on the user device. In the event the user attempts to access the wireless network but does not have the wrapper application installed on their device the user is directed to an App Download webpage whereby the user may download the wrapper application to access the network which include one or more wireless access points routers . illustrate exemplary methods and systems of permitting network access via a wrapper application. In these exemplary methods and systems a wrapper application wrapper app executes on a user device and acts as a conduit for authorized mobile applications executing on the user device.

The business venue may configure its wireless access point router WAP to only allow wireless network traffic from the wrapper app executing on the user device. It should be noted however that any number of WAPs wrapper apps and or user devices may be utilized or otherwise involved as this description only describes a single WAP and a single wrapper app for ease of description. When the user opens the wrapper app on their device and the wrapper application attempts to access the network the wrapper app is configured to authenticate the user device at . This authentication may include but is not limited to restrictions on the particular user device as determined by the business venue as indicated by a device whitelist or blacklist or by any other suitable means or methods for identifying user devices and associated restrictions or limitations. Once the user device has been successfully authenticated a uniquely identifiable virtual persona is determined for the user s device as part of a virtual session at as further described below. According to aspects of the present invention this virtual persona is uniquely identified by one or more of the device s unique identifier the business venue the device s location within the venue attributes of the user and or user device known to the business venue and other attributes received or retrieved from third parties regarding the user and or user device or some combination thereof.

According to aspects of the present invention the business venue may additionally authorize one or more secondary applications venue apps at that may access the wireless network via the wrapper app on the user device. For example the operators of a football stadium may permit sports oriented mobile applications to access their WAP. In some embodiments the business venue may deny wireless network to all other mobile applications deny wireless access to only certain mobile applications or classes of mobile applications or otherwise restrict or allow wireless access to mobile applications executing on the user device. In other words the business venue may allow or restrict network access by mobile applications in the manner most appropriate for their needs. The authorization of venue apps may be stored as one or more authorization indicators in a database and or listing data structure or other suitable format or some combination thereof. The indicators may be utilized by the WAP for permitting and or restricting network traffic as it arrives at the WAP or may be transmitted or otherwise accessed by the wrapper app as predetermined criteria defining which venue app may execute within the context of the wrapper app or may access the wireless network via the wrapper app . In this manner wireless access may be selectively permitted via the wrapper app based on the user device authentication the uniquely identifiable persona the predetermined criteria or some combination thereof.

In some embodiments the wrapper app displays a listing of authorized venue apps to the user at and or along with an indication of which apps are already installed on the mobile device and which apps are not installed. The user may then optionally install the applications to their device using the device appropriate App Store.

According to aspects of the present invention the predetermined criteria may additionally include an active lease indicating one or more periods of time that the wrapper application permits the user to access the venue apps in the wrapper app. In some embodiments the predetermined criteria may include at an active leases associated with each of the secondary applications each active lease having one or more periods of time that the wrapper app permits the user to access the secondary application associated with each active lease. For example the business venue may receive a request from a third party application provider requesting wireless access for their application at the venue during a particular period of time or scheduled period of times. The business venue may set or otherwise update the predetermined criteria to permit a user to access the third party app via the wrapper app at or during the scheduled times e.g. if U2 is playing in a concert venue on a Jan. 1 2015 at 7 00 pm 11 59 pm a concert goer can access the U2 app via the wrapper app and the U2 app can access the wireless network as needed during that period of time. The predetermined criteria may additionally include a priority indicator for a particular secondary application which signals the wrapper app to prioritize traffic to from that secondary application over those that do not have a priority indicator. This advantageously permits the business venue providing the WAP to prioritize its own or preferred applications over other secondary applications.

In some embodiments the uniquely identifiable virtual persona is created during the creation of a virtual session within the wrapper app. The virtual session may additionally include the predetermined criteria indicating the secondary applications described above. The virtual session may also provide a context within which the secondary applications execute. In other words the virtual session acts as a single sign on and represents the ability of the user device to access certain secondary applications for a certain period of time in a particular location wherein virtual session terminates due to the expiration of the active leases described above a change in location of the user device some event condition that invalidates the virtual persona or the virtual session or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the wrapper app permits the user to save and or transmit some portion or all of their virtual persona to a centralized server a cloud based storage service a personal computer the user device or some combination thereof. This persistent storage of some or all of the virtual persona allows the user to maintain and or reuse this stored data during future virtual sessions at the same or different business venue. In some embodiments the wrapper app may retrieve the user s stored data from a centralized server a cloud based storage service a personal computer the user device or some combination thereof and or prompt the user to retrieve import or otherwise use the user s stored data. For example the prompt may request the location of the stored data and access credentials if needed.

According to aspects of the present invention the user may additionally register their device and indirectly aspects of their virtual persona via a user web application . For example the user executes the wrapper app on their device either away from or at the venue and access a registration code that unique identifies the wrapper app and the user device. In some embodiments the user may register their mobile device by providing a unique identifier for the user device such as a mobile number associated with the device an IMEI associated with their device a MAC address associated with their device etc. or some combination thereof and then confirming the registration such as by text message email message telephone call etc. Once registered the user may then enter this registration code in the user web application to establish their account and set modify or other maintain their user preferences such as user defined groups membership in groups contact lists of users virtual personas demographic information advertising preferences etc. In some embodiments the user registration process may permit the user to associate a stored virtual persona with the registration. The user may establish and or join groups via the user web application the wrapper app or some combination thereof. A business venue administrator may establish update delete or otherwise modify groups via the administrative wrapper app at and or an administrative web application or some combination thereof.

According to aspects of the present invention the wrapper app collects data regarding itself and all the secondary applications executed e.g. at . This data includes but is not limited to application usage management information interface information audit information and logging information e.g. number of users using Instagram via the wrapper app number of image posts and comments number of users using Twitter and number of tweets sent. For example the data may include information regarding a particular play or event during a football game such as halftime a time out and or a specific play.

The collected data may be transmitted at by the wrapper app to a centralized server transmitted to cloud storage transmitted to an appropriate computer transmitted to an administrative computer device or some combination thereof. For example the data may be transmitted to an administrative wrapper app connected to the wireless network by any appropriate method or manner such as a peer to peer type connection. In this arrangement the wrapper app on a user device may periodically ping the wireless network for the presence of an administrative wrapper app the administrative wrapper app may periodically broadcast its presence on the network or some combination of both may occur prior to usage data being transmitted to the administrative wrapper app. In this example an administrative wrapper app is an application that permits its respective user to perform administrative functions to add update delete or otherwise modify aspects of the systems and methods described throughout e.g. at and . This type of arrangement may advantageously permit an administrator to be on the ground at the venue collect usage data and adjust system parameters as needed. Exemplary administrative functions for performing these and other types of adjustment are described below.

This collection of data advantageously provides the business venue with use metrics and analytical data regarding user engagement. For example the business venue may lease high density wireless access during a period of time using a wrapper app to control access e.g. wireless access at a baseball stadium given a playoff game and collect data pertaining to user engagement during the game. For example a venue app may provide via the wrapper app a tug of war game between the fans at a baseball game e.g St. Louis Cardinals fans and Chicago Cubs at a particular point during the baseball game. The tug of war game may have two active leases associated with it the first of which provides a window for the user to test the app to verify its operation the second of which defines the start and stop time of the tug of war game. Each side may repeatedly click a button within the venue app whereby the side with the most number of clicks within a specific time period e.g. 30 seconds for the tug of war game wins . The winning side may be presented with an appropriate prize by the venue app such as recognition via one or more TV displays at the venue or a coupon for a free beverage etc. During the tug of war game the venue app may collect data including the number of participants and their side . The data may be analyzed and combined with other data sources such as the stored user data from virtual personas as described above to generate individual user profiles aggregated data sets etc. i.e. analytics for the data . The analytics may advantageously then be used by the business venue to by way of example and not limitation sell or rent the data to adjust pricing for future wifi leasing opportunities or adjust pricing for advertising through the wrapper app . The analytics and or may also be utilized to adjust pricing in real time such advertising costs that adjust with user engagement number of impressions time of day etc. In some embodiments the wrapper app may be further configured to receive and display advertisements as determined by the business venue.

According to aspects of the present invention one or more administrative functions e.g. at and are provided to control the operation of the wrapper app and other aspects of the present invention. As noted above administrative functions may be provided via an administrative wrapper app and or an administrative web application or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the wrapper app may include administrative functions that are selectively enabled when operated by an administrator. The administrative functions may include but are not limited to session broker functions and traffic manager functions for modifying the predetermined criteria. For example modifying the predetermined criteria may include associating a bandwidth restriction with an active lease. This type of bandwidth restriction advantageously allows for controlling network congestion and responsiveness during peak periods of network usage. The administrative functions may additionally permit the inclusion of a priority indicator in the predetermined criteria as noted above such that the administrator may indicate which secondary applications have priority access to the wireless network. In this manner the business venue may prioritize traffic from their own applications or third party applications that have contracted or paid for prioritized traffic. The administrative functions may further include one or more advertising related functions for establishing the display of advertisements via the wrapper app the cost associated with the advertisements the frequency of which the ads are to be displayed number of impressions to be delivered and other functions as needed to support the delivery of advertisements via the wrapper app . One of ordinary skill in the pertinent arts will understand third party systems exist for the management and selection of advertisements and one or more of these third party systems may be adapted to receive administrative functions and provide the appropriate advertisements to the administrative functionality for eventual delivery to the wrapper app.

By way of explanation and not limitation the administrative functions may also include functions related to user security and access centralized control of wrapper app parameters such as parameters regarding auditing and logging as well as programming updates for the wrapper app itself. These functions may apply to a plurality of wrapper apps in aggregate a subset of wrapper apps or a particular wrapper app executing on a user device or some combination thereof. The changes modifications and updates effected by the administrative functions may be transmitted to one or more wrapper apps in real time batched and transmitted in bulk in response to requests from one or more wrapper apps for updates or some combination thereof. It is within the scope of the present invention to transmit the administrative changes modifications and updates via the network in whatever manner is available or required. Administrative functions may be accessed or otherwise presented to an administrator via one or more user interfaces. By way of demonstration and not limitation the user interfaces may be presented on a computer display a mobile device display some combination thereof or any other means available for providing a user interface.

In other embodiments the wrapper app may enable the user identified via a virtual persona to engage in secure point to point communication with other users via the wrapper app . Optionally the point to point communication may be encrypted for increased security. The communications may further include messaging capabilities such as the ability to send text messages images and or video. For example the user may select one or more other users from a directory of other users present in the venue . In some embodiments the other users with whom the user may message may be determined either randomly among the users present in the venue or based on similarities between the user and the other users e.g. flash mob messaging between users present in the venue. For example one or more matching algorithms may determine similarities between the user and the other users based on historical analytical data regarding the user and the other users such as number of times the users frequented the same venue joined the same groups via the wrapper app etc. The user may additionally add other users to a contact list for communicating in the future. In some embodiments the wrapper app may implicit generate contact lists based on any or all of the factors described above for later use such that the user can re engage a user they interacted with previously with a minimum amount of effort. For example the wrapper app may alert the user to the geo presence of another user in the same venue as the user based on a contact list or the matching criteria described above.

In some embodiments the point to point communication capability permits users to transmit messages and images via the network to one or more screens at the venue as permitted the business venue administrator. For example an administrator may moderate such requests via the administrative wrapper app or other appropriate mechanism such as SMS email etc. to prevent inappropriate messages and images from displaying. In other example the administrative wrapper app and or may provide similar functionality to an administrator allowing the administrator to transmit messages and images via the network to one or more screens at the venue . The point to point communication may additionally enable communication with a celebrity in the crowd as permitted by the business venue administrator and celebrity. For example there may exist an administrative function that permits the business venue representative of the celebrity to verify a particular user and or virtual persona as belonging to the celebrity. In this example the wrapper app may first display a permission screen to the celebrity indicating whether or not they permit other users to communicate with them directly. The wrapper app may additionally allow the celebrity to selectively modify the verified flag e.g. an incognito mode so that other users are not aware of their celebrity status and or presence at the venue.

It should be further understood that the functionality processes and data of the present invention may be additionally accessed via one or more Application Programming Interfaces API e.g. elements and . In other words all or part of the functionality processes and data may be accessible programmatically by other applications systems and methods or may access other applications systems and method via the APIs or other suitable methods or means for programmatic interaction.

One of ordinary skill in the pertinent arts will recognize that while various aspects of the present invention are illustrated in as separate elements one or more of the elements may be combined merged omitted or otherwise modified without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the various elements shown throughout may communicate via wired network wireless network and or other appropriate communication technology or some combination thereof. The lines and arrows shown in are merely illustrative such that the various elements may communicate directly or indirectly as needed required and or otherwise desired.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects of the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a conventional computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up may be stored in ROM .

The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The magnetic hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a magnetic hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk other types of computer readable media for storing data can be used including magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges RAMs ROMs and the like.

Program code means comprising one or more program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM and or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . A user may enter commands and information into the computer through keyboard pointing device or other input devices not shown such as a microphone joy stick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface coupled to system bus . Alternatively the input devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or another display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as video adapter . In addition to the monitor personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computers and . Remote computers and may each be another personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only memory storage devices and and their associated application programs and have been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer may include a modem a wireless link or other means for establishing communications over the wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications over wide area network may be used.

One or more aspects of the invention may be embodied in computer executable instructions i.e. software such as a software object routine or function collectively referred to herein as a software stored in system memory or non volatile memory as application programs program modules and or program data . The software may alternatively be stored remotely such as on remote computer and with remote application programs . Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types when executed by a processor in a computer or other device. The computer executable instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk optical disk solid state memory RAM etc. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. In addition the functionality may be embodied in whole or in part in firmware or hardware equivalents such as integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGA and the like.

A programming interface or more simply interface may be viewed as any mechanism process or protocol for enabling one or more segment s of code to communicate with or access the functionality provided by one or more other segment s of code. Alternatively a programming interface may be viewed as one or more mechanism s method s function call s module s object s etc. of a component of a system capable of communicative coupling to one or more mechanism s method s function call s module s etc. of other component s . The term segment of code in the preceding sentence is intended to include one or more instructions or lines of code and includes e.g. code modules objects subroutines functions and so on regardless of the terminology applied or whether the code segments are separately compiled or whether the code segments are provided as source intermediate or object code whether the code segments are utilized in a runtime system or process or whether they are located on the same or different machines or distributed across multiple machines or whether the functionality represented by the segments of code are implemented wholly in software wholly in hardware or a combination of hardware and software. By way of example and not limitation terms such as application programming interface API entry point method function subroutine remote procedure call and component object model COM interface are encompassed within the definition of programming interface.

Aspects of such a programming interface may include the method whereby the first code segment transmits information where information is used in its broadest sense and includes data commands requests etc. to the second code segment the method whereby the second code segment receives the information and the structure sequence syntax organization schema timing and content of the information. In this regard the underlying transport medium itself may be unimportant to the operation of the interface whether the medium be wired or wireless or a combination of both as long as the information is transported in the manner defined by the interface. In certain situations information may not be passed in one or both directions in the conventional sense as the information transfer may be either via another mechanism e.g. information placed in a buffer file etc. separate from information flow between the code segments or non existent as when one code segment simply accesses functionality performed by a second code segment. Any or all of these aspects may be important in a given situation e.g. depending on whether the code segments are part of a system in a loosely coupled or tightly coupled configuration and so this list should be considered illustrative and non limiting.

This notion of a programming interface is known to those skilled in the art and is clear from the provided detailed description. Some illustrative implementations of a programming interface may also include factoring redefinition inline coding divorce rewriting to name a few. There are however other ways to implement a programming interface and unless expressly excluded these too are intended to be encompassed by the claims set forth at the end of this specification.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include computer readable media and computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such a connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

