---

title: Linear route progress interface
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for providing linear route progress. For example, a linear route progress interface, comprising a linear route representation of a route from a starting location to a destination location, may be displayed. The linear route representation may linearly represent a progress of the user along the route (e.g., as opposed to directions on a map that may otherwise visually overwhelm a user merely interested in traffic flow and/or incident information that may affect an arrival time of the user). The linear route progress interface may be populated with traffic flow indicators (e.g., traffic flow speed) and/or incident indictors (e.g., indicating accidents, construction, etc.). A user indicator, corresponding to a current position of the user, may be populated within the linear route progress interface. The user indicator and/or the linear route representation may be modified to illustrate user progress along the route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09482550&OS=09482550&RS=09482550
owner: INRIX Inc.
number: 09482550
owner_city: Kirkland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141030
---
Many users utilize various devices to obtain route information. In an example a user may utilize a smart phone to obtain walking directions to a nearby restaurant. In another example a user may utilize a vehicle navigation device to obtain a map populated with driving directions to an amusement park. In a driving situation a driver may want to view information that may affect an arrival time to a destination such as traffic congestion and or road incidents e.g. construction and accidents .

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for providing linear route progress are provided herein. In an example a linear route progress interface may be displayed to a user e.g. through a vehicle navigation device . The linear route progress interface may comprise a linear route representation of a route from a starting location e.g. a work building of the user to a destination location e.g. a home of the user . In an example the linear route representation may be configured according to a linear shape such as a bar used to convey the user s progress towards reaching the destination location e.g. a vertical or horizontal progress bar . In an example the linear route representation if formatted according to a linear non map configuration e.g. the linear route representation may not representing directions within a map which may decrease the amount of unnecessary information otherwise conveyed by the map that could have distracted or overwhelm the user.

The linear route progress interface may be populated with traffic flow indicators. A traffic flow indicator may be used to convey traffic flow conditions to the user e.g. a segment of the linear route representation may be colored or shaded to indicate a traffic flow condition such as clear normal slow standstill etc. . The linear route progress interface may be populated with incident indicators. An incident indicator may be used to convey traffic incidents such as accidents or construction to the user e.g. an accident icon may be displayed at a position along the linear route representation corresponding to a progress point of the route where an accident has occurred . In an example a predicted state of the route corresponding to a time at which the user is to traverse the route e.g. the user may normally leave work in 4 hours at 5 00 pm may be generated based upon a current state of the route traffic flow and incident information and or historical traffic flow condition and incident resolution information. Predicted traffic flow indicators and or predicted incident indicators e.g. corresponding to the predicted state of the route at 5 00 pm as opposed to the current state of the route at 1 00 pm may be populated within the linear route progress interface.

The linear route progress interface may be populated with a user indicator corresponding to a current user position. In an example responsive to identifying user progress along the route the linear route representation may be modified with respect to the user indicator to indicate the user progress e.g. the user indicator may be anchored to a fixed position within the linear route progress interface and the linear route representation may be moved with respect to the user indicator to illustrate the user progress . In another example responsive to identifying user progress along the route a display location of the user indicator may be modified with respect to the linear route representation to indicate the user progress e.g. the linear route representation may be anchored to a fixed position within the linear route progress interface and the user indicator may be moved with respect to the linear route representation to illustrate the user progress .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

One or more systems and or techniques for providing linear route progress are provided herein. Users may have a desire to view information that may affect an arrival time to a destination such as accidents construction and or traffic congestion. Unfortunately such information may be represented pictorially on a map which may otherwise be visually overwhelming and or distracting to the user e.g. the user may merely be interested in conditions that may affect an arrival time to home along a route that is already known to the user and thus the map and or directions may be visual noise to the user . Accordingly as provided herein a linear route progress interface comprising a linear route presentation of a route e.g. a travel progress bar may be displayed. The linear route progress interface may be populated with traffic flow indicators and or incident indicators. Displaying traffic flow indicators and or incident indicators with the linear route representation may provide the user with information that may be relevant to the user s commute time as opposed to overwhelming the user with unnecessary information that may be distracting e.g. the map and or directions may unnecessarily distract the user because the user may already know how to travel the route home . In this way driver distraction concerns may be decreased.

An embodiment of providing linear route progress is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. In an example a user may request to see information that may affect a route that the user is to travel from a starting location to a destination location e.g. a commute from home to a local water park . For example a route creation interface may be exposed to the user e.g. through a route creation service accessed by the user through a personal computer at home . The route creation interface may comprise a route departure time specification interface e.g. a first time slider interface element a destination arrival time specification interface e.g. a second time slider interface element a starting location specification interface a destination location specification interface and or other interfaces. For example the user may specify a desired departure time through the route departure time specification interface e.g. and may not specify a destination arrival time such that an estimated arrival time may be provided to the user or the user may specify a desired arrival time through the destination arrival time specification interface e.g. and may not specify a departure time such that a suggested departure time may be provided to the user so that the user arrives at the destination at the desired arrival time . A generate route request may be received from the user. The generate route request may comprise the starting location the destination location a specified route departure time and or a specified destination arrival time e.g. the user may request a route and a suggested departure time so that the user can arrive at the local water park at 10 00 am . A linear route progress interface may be generated e.g. for display on a vehicle navigation device based upon the generate route request.

At the linear route progress interface may be displayed. The linear route progress interface may comprise a linear route representation of the route from the starting location to the destination location e.g. a route having a shortest commute time a route meeting user criteria such as no highway driving a route historically taken by the user etc. . The linear route representation may be formatted according to a linear non map configuration. For example the linear route representation may not represent driving directions on a map but may comprise a vertical progress bar a horizontal progress bar or other linear progress bar representing the user s progress along the route.

At the linear route progress interface may be populated with a user indicator corresponding to a current position of the user. In an example the user indicator may be positioned at a fixed position within the linear route progress interface e.g. such that the linear route representation may be moved with respect to the user indicator in order to illustrate user progress along the route . At the linear route progress interface may be populated with a traffic flow indicator and or an incident indicator. The traffic flow indicator may indicate a traffic flow for a segment of the route. For example the traffic flow indicator may comprise a portion of the liner route representation that is visually modified to represent a traffic flow of a corresponding segment e.g. highlighted colored such as green to show normal traffic flow yellow for slow traffic flow and red for stopped traffic flow shaded textually labeled visually labeled etc. . The incident indicator may visually indicate accidents constructions and or other incidents that may affect the user s arrival time to the destination location. For example the incident indicator may comprise an accident icon that is overlaid a portion of the linear route representation corresponding to a route segment under construction.

In an example a current state of the route may be obtained. The linear route progress interface may be populated with a current traffic flow indicator and or a current incident indicator based upon the current state. In this way the user may view current conditions of the route that may affect the user s arrival time at the destination.

In another example a predicted state of the route corresponding to a time at which the user is to traverse the route e.g. a departure time at 9 30 am which may be in 2 hours from a current time of 7 30 am which may be identified based upon the user indicating a desired arrival time of 10 00 am at the local water park that is usually a 30 minute commute from the user s home . The predicted state may be derived from the current state of the route traffic flow and incident information for the route e.g. an accident at 7 00 am to which an ambulance and tow truck has been dispatch historical traffic flow conditions and incident resolution information for the route e.g. accidents are generally resolved for the route in 2 hours from the dispatch of a tow truck and ambulance a particular construction site generally becomes worse after 8 30 am etc. and or other information that may be used to predict what traffic flow and incident conditions will be from 9 30 am until the user arrives at the local water park e.g. which may also be used to determine and or adjust a departure time so that the user reaches the local water park by 10 00 am . The linear route progress interface may be populated with a predicted traffic flow indicator and or a predicted incident indicator e.g. future accidents may be predicted based upon historical accident information indicating a high likelihood of a second accident occurring at the construction site soon after a morning accident has occurred based upon the predicted state. In this way the user may view predicted conditions of the route that may be relevant to the user s actual travel time along the route.

In an example a time remaining until route completion indicator may be displayed through the linear route progress interface e.g. an indication that the user has an estimated time of arrival in 22 minutes . The time remaining until route completion indicator may be updated based upon user progress along the route a current travel condition change or an estimated travel condition change e.g. an estimated delay based upon a notification that a construction crew just closed down a lane . In this way the time remaining until route completion indicator may be increased or decreased based upon various information that may affect or be indicative of the user s arrival time.

In an example the linear route progress interface may be populated with an alternative linear route representation of an alternative route from a start detour location to the destination location. For example the alternative route may reduce the user s travel time by 10 minutes because the alternative route may detour around an accident. The alternative linear representation may be displayed as a second progress bar that branches off the of the linear route representation. In this way the user may be presented with various linear route representations that represent various routes to the destination location.

At responsive to identifying user progress along the route e.g. the user traveling along the route the linear route representation may be modified with respect to the user indicator to indicate the user progress. For example the user indicator may remain at the fixed position within the linear route progress interface and the linear route representation may be moved to visually differentiate a traveled portion of the route traveled by the user and an un traveled portion of the route not yet traveled by the user. In an example responsive to the user progress indicating that the user traveled from a first route segment to a second route segment the linear route representation may be modified with respect to the user indicator to indicate that the first route segment has been traveled e.g. the first route segment may be moved behind such as to the left of the user indicator and or a color of the first route segment may be changed to a travel complete color indicator and that the second route segment is currently being traveled by the user e.g. a view of the second route segment may be expanded to such as zoomed into or blown up into an expanded view having an increased level of granularity for traffic flow information and or incident information such as display of a previously hidden collapsed incident indictor and or a previously hidden collapsed traffic flow indicator that may have otherwise been at too low of a level of granularity to display when the user was not traveling the second route segment . At the method ends.

Accordingly the linear route provider component may display the linear route progress interface comprising a linear route representation e.g. a progress bar representing the route from the work building to home. The linear route progress interface may be populated with a user indicator corresponding to a current position of the user. For example the user indicator may be located at a 30 completion point along the linear route representation from a starting end of the linear route representation based upon the current position of the user indicating that 30 of the route to home has been completed. A completed portion of the linear route representation may visually indicate that the user has traversed the completed portion e.g. the completed portion may be colored and or moved behind the user indicator .

The linear route provider component may populate the linear route progress interface with traffic flow indicators and or incident indicators. In an example a first traffic flow indicator a second traffic flow indicator a third traffic flow indicator and a fourth traffic flow indicator may visually represent traffic flow conditions along portions of the linear route representation corresponding to segments of the route. For example the first traffic flow indicator and the fourth traffic flow indicator may be colored and or shaded to indicate a normal traffic flow. The second traffic flow indicator may be colored and or shaded to indicate a slow traffic flow. The third traffic flow indicator may be colored and or shaded to indicate a very slow or stopped traffic flow. It may be appreciated that a variety of visual indicators such as coloring shading highlighting labeling etc. may be used to illustrate a wide range of traffic flow conditions. In an example a first incident indicator illustrating a first incident such as construction and a second incident indicator illustrate a second incident such as a traffic accident may represent incidents at portions of the linear route representation corresponding to segments of the route at which such incidents occurred.

The linear route progress interface may display various information to the user. In an example an estimate time of arrival may be displayed. In an example a time remaining until route completion indicator may be displayed. The time remaining until route completion indicator may be updated e.g. increased or decreased based upon user progress a current travel condition change e.g. an accident may become clear an estimated travel condition change e.g. a tow truck may be dispatched to a second accident that is estimated to become clear in 20 minutes etc. In an example the linear route progress interface may format and display the linear route representation according to a linear non map configuration such that the linear route representation represents progress along the route as opposed to directions along a map which may otherwise visually overwhelm the user that may merely seek information that may affect the user s arrival time to home.

In an example the linear route provider component may receive a first generate route request from the route creation interface . The first generate route request may comprise a starting location a destination location and a specified route departure time of 6 15 pm. The linear route provide component may display a linear route progress interface comprising a first linear route representation based upon the first generate route request . The linear route progress interface may be populated with a user indicator traffic flow indicators e.g. a first traffic flow indicator indicating normal traffic flow a second traffic flow indicator indicating slow traffic flow and a third traffic indicator indicating normal traffic flow incident indicators e.g. a first incident indicator indicating a traffic accident and or a time remaining until route completion indicator . In an example a predicted state of the route corresponding to 6 15 pm to 6 45 pm may be determined based upon a current state of the route traffic flow and incident information for the route and or historical traffic flow conditions and incident resolution information. The traffic flow indicators populated within the linear route progress interface may correspond to predicted traffic flow indicators derived from the predicted state. The incident indicators populated within the linear route progress interface may correspond to predicted incident indicators derived from the predicted state. In this way the user may view relevant traffic flow and incident information of the route for a time e.g. 3 hours from a current time of 3 15 pm during which the user is traveling the route.

An embodiment of providing linear route progress is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a linear route progress interface comprising a linear route representation of a route from a starting location to a destination location may be displayed. At the linear route progress interface may be populated with a user indicator corresponding to a current position of a user. In an example the linear route representation may be positioned at a fixed position within the linear route progress interface such that the user indicator may be moved with respect to the linear route representation to indicate user progress along the route. At the linear route progress interface may be populated with traffic flow indicators and or incident indicators. At responsive to identifying user progress along the route a display location of the user indicator may be modified with respect to the linear route representation. At the method ends.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Computer storage media does not however include propagated signals. Rather computer storage media excludes propagated signals. Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B and or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

