---

title: Systems and methods for actively resisting touch-induced motion
abstract: A system for actively resisting touch-induced motion includes a touchscreen device and a processing circuit. The touchscreen device includes one or more sensors configured to generate motion data based on a motion of a touchscreen display of the touchscreen device, where the motion is induced by a touch on the display. The touchscreen device further includes one or more motion control devices configured to apply a force to the display. The processing circuit is configured to determine, based on the motion data, a force to counteract the motion. The processing circuit is further configured to cause the motion control devices to apply a force to the display to counteract the motion of the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483134&OS=09483134&RS=09483134
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09483134
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141017
---
As touchscreens are made to be lighter and thinner they may become less robust. A touchscreen may flex inward when a user touches the screen. As a consequence the functionality of the touchscreen may be hindered due to its movement when touched. Additionally such movement and flexure of the touchscreen can result in inaccuracies in the user s touch.

One embodiment relates to a system for actively resisting touch induced motion. The system comprises a touchscreen device and a processing circuit. The touchscreen device comprises one or more sensors configured to generate motion data based on a motion of a touchscreen display of the touchscreen device wherein the motion is induced by a touch on the display and one or more motion control devices configured to apply a force to the display. The processing circuit is configured to determine based on the motion data a force to counteract the motion and cause the motion control devices to apply a force to the display to counteract the motion of the display.

Another embodiment relates to a method of actively resisting touch induced motion. The method comprises generating by one or more sensors motion data based on a motion of a touchscreen display of the touchscreen device wherein the motion is induced by a touch on the display. The touchscreen device comprises the one or more sensors and one or more motion control devices configured to apply a force to the display. The method further comprises determining based on the motion data a force to counteract the motion and applying a force by the motion control devices to the display to counteract the motion of the display.

Another embodiment relates to a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon the instructions forming a program executable by a processing circuit to actively resisting touch induced motion of a touchscreen display of a touchscreen device. The instructions comprise instructions for receiving from one or more sensors motion data based on the motion of the display of the touchscreen device wherein the motion is induced by a touch on the display. The touchscreen device comprises the one or more sensors and one or more motion control devices configured to apply a force to the display. The instructions further comprises instructions for determining based on the motion data a location on the display corresponding to the touch instructions for determining based on the motion data and the touch location a force to counteract the motion and instructions for causing the motion control devices to apply a force to the display to counteract the motion of the display.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented here.

Referring generally to the figures various embodiments of systems methods and computer readable media for actively resisting touch induced motion are shown and described. As manufacturers design touchscreens to be thinner a typical result is that they feel flimsy to a user during normal operation. For example a user may be using a touchscreen interface on a device e.g. on a laptop a tablet etc. and the screen may flex or otherwise move when the user interacts with the device. This can result in inaccuracies in where the touchscreen system registers a detected touch. Further to the user the screen may feel poorly designed or cheaply manufactured. According to the disclosure herein the touch induced motion of the screen e.g. its flexure deformation indentation bending etc. may be detected and actively resisted. For example one or more sensors can be used to detect the motion of the screen induced from a touch e.g. from a user s finger a stylus etc. . The detected motion may be resisted by treating the touchscreen as a rigid body and applying a force or torque to the screen e.g. at the screen s mounting points to counteract the motion induced touch. As another example the touchscreen may be treated as a flexible body and the screen s internal flexure may be controlled at various points e.g. the touch site near the touch site etc. to resist the motion induced touch. Knowledge of the touch site may be calculated based on data provided by the one or more sensors. Alternatively a touch detection system of the touchscreen may determine a touch site or provide data related to a touch site. For example the touchscreen may be based on various technologies resistive surface acoustic wave capacitive infrared optical imaging dispersive signal acoustic pulse recognition etc. configured to detect a touch on the screen.

As discussed in further detail in the various embodiments a touchscreen can actively resist motion upon a user s touch. For example accelerometers pressure sensors or strain sensors may be positioned at various points of the screen e.g. at or near mounting points in a grid pattern behind the screen etc. . Data from the sensors may be used by a processor to directly determine the motion of the screen induced by the touch or the data may be used to determine the force or torque applied by the touch and then used to indirectly determine the motion which will result from this force or torque. Knowledge of the motion can then be used to determine the force or torque required to counteract such motion. The counteracting force torque can be used to counteract both the immediate touch induced motion as well as to counteract dynamic motion e.g. oscillations which persists after the touch. The counteracting force torque can be applied during the actual touch and in some embodiments may be applied after a touch has ended in order to counteract motion induced by the touch. In various embodiments a touch may be also predicted and the screen may actively act in advance of the predicted touch.

The determination of the force torque needed to counteract a touch induced motion can be made based on preknowledge of the screen s response to forces torques. For instance in some embodiments previous computation history or testing may determine the screen motion at various locations which will result from specified force torque values applied by the motion control device. In one embodiment a display device may comprise a number e.g. M of motion control devices each capable of applying a force or torque to a specified location on the device. For each case we can store a vector denoting the induced motion at each of a number e.g. N of locations on the display screen due to a unit valued force torque. The overall data structure can be represented as an N M influence matrix relating motion at N locations induced by unit forces torques applied by M motion control devices. Alternatively an inverse influence matrix can be tabulated representing the forces torques needed by M motion control devices to offset motion at N locations. While actual touch sites may not precisely match one of the N matrix locations we can extrapolate interpolate values from nearby matrix elements to correspond to actual touch sites. The amount of force torque that should be applied to counteract a measured motion at a touch site or another specified site may be readily determined with such predetermined influence matrices.

Another approach to determine the force torque needed to counteract a touch induced motion is empirical. A control loop can be implemented to sense a touch induced motion apply a counteracting force torque and re sense the updated motion now due to both the initial touch and to the force torque . The updated motion may then be sensed to determine whether the force made the motion better or worse the force may then be adjusted accordingly and re sensed again and so on. This process may be repeated until the motion is sufficiently reduced.

Referring to a block diagram of motion resistance system is shown according to one embodiment. System includes touchscreen device which has one or more motion detection sensors . Touchscreen device may be a primarily stationary e.g. mounted to a wall integrated into a fixture etc. touchscreen device reacting against a mount or a support. Touchscreen device may also be handheld or otherwise mobile touchscreen device reacting against e.g. a hand holding the device or a table top where the device is placed etc. In one embodiment touchscreen device is a laptop. In another embodiment touchscreen device is a desktop. In another embodiment touchscreen device is a wall mounted display. In another embodiment touchscreen device is integrated into a vehicle e.g. a vehicle dashboard a vehicle user interface etc. . In another embodiment touchscreen device is a cellular phone. In another embodiment touchscreen device is a tablet computing device. Sensors are generally configured to sense a motion of the touchscreen of touchscreen device . For example sensors may detect a linear or angular motion induced from a touch a flexure of the touchscreen a deformation of the touchscreen a pressure induced on the touchscreen etc. The angular motion may be detected between a display screen and mount. Sensors may provide digital or analog data related to a sensed motion to be analyzed by processing circuit . Sensors may include one or more different types of sensors. In one embodiment sensors include one or more accelerometers pressure sensors and strain sensors. In one embodiment pressure sensors measure pressure as a result of the applied touch. For example in one embodiment the pressure sensor multiplies the pressure times the area of the touch to determine the force of the touch. Sensors can be integrated throughout the touchscreen e.g. at the corners of the touchscreen in a grid pattern behind the touchscreen etc. at various locations. Sensors can also be coupled to various mounting points of the touchscreen for example where the touchscreen is coupled to a frame bezel or where the touchscreen is mounted to a surface e.g. a wall etc. . In some embodiments such sensors can measure translational or angular motion between the display and mount e.g. rotation of a hinge . If sensors are not located directly at a location of a touch processing circuit may extrapolate interpolate the data provided by sensors to determine motion at the touch location. The location of a touch may be calculated based on the data provided by sensors . Alternatively processing circuit may interface with a touch system of touchscreen device e.g. capacitive sensors resistive sensors etc. which are based on the type of touchscreen technology in use to obtain location information of touch as provided by the touch system. In one embodiment sensors further include the sensors of the touchscreen e.g. capacitive sensors infrared sensors resistive sensors optical sensors acoustic based sensors etc. configured to provided location information based on a user s touch or a stylus touch on touchscreen device . Based on a location of a touch and characteristics of the touch e.g. force magnitude of a touch direction of a touch timing of a touch etc. processing circuit determines an amount and type of force to be applied to the touchscreen to counteract and resist the touch. A force may be applied to an area of the touch or to an area that is different from the touch depending on the type of touchscreen in use and the resistive measure being taken. Processing circuit is the processing circuitry e.g. processors memory etc. of system and includes the circuitry necessary to interface with the sensors motion control devices and other components discussed herein. In one embodiment processing circuit includes the processing components of touchscreen device . Processing circuit is described in more detail herein with reference to processing circuit of .

Based on data from sensors processing circuit determines an amount of force to be applied to the touchscreen to counteract motion induced by a touch and processing circuit controls one or more motion control devices to counteract the motion. The force to be applied may depend on a configuration of motion control devices . Further the entire touch induced motion does not need to be resisted but the motion may be primarily counteracted at a selected location for instance the location of where the screen was touched the location of a key image the center of the touchscreen etc. . The momentum introduced to the screen from the touch may be transferred to other areas of the screen that are not currently being touched. As an example motion control devices may be coupled to the mounting points or located nearby the mounting points of the touchscreen. In this arrangement a force may be applied to the mounting points or touchscreen to create a flexure in the touchscreen and stiffen an area of the screen to actively resist touch induced motion. As another example motion control devices may be located at various points behind the touchscreen e.g. in a grid pattern etc. and the internal flexure of the screen may be controlled by applying forces to the backside of the touchscreen.

In order to resist a touch induced motion motion control devices may include one or more mechanical devices that can apply a force to the touchscreen. For example motion control devices may include tension based supports that may operate on an internal hinge of the touchscreen. In such an embodiment motion control devices may increase a tension e.g. via cables braces diagonal supports bands etc. across a certain area of the touchscreen. This can stiffen the touchscreen at a location of a touch. Thus in response to a touch that applies a net momentum to the touchscreen the touchscreen may actively tension the touch site to shift the applied momentum from the tensioned area to a weaker part of the touchscreen e.g. an area that is not being touched or tensioned by motion control devices . As another example motion control devices may include actuators positioned behind the touchscreen that are configured to apply pressure to the touchscreen. Accordingly based on a position of a touch one or more actuators may activate to counteract e.g. press against the screen a motion induced on the touchscreen by the touch. Such actuators may also include plates or other distribution elements configured to distribute a force applied to the touchscreen by the actuators. As another example such motion control devices may include actuators configured to apply a torque to various points of the touchscreen to control a flexure of the screen e.g. to controllably bow flex the screen .

Referring to a touchscreen device having a motion resistance system is shown according to one embodiment. Touchscreen device includes touchscreen which may be any type of touchscreen discussed herein. Touchscreen device further includes processing circuit a plurality of motion control devices and a plurality of sensors configured to detect a touch induced motion of touchscreen . Although depicted as being in a grid pattern sensors may be located in any arrangement behind or integrated within touchscreen . In one embodiment sensors are located at the corners of touchscreen or near mounting points of the screen. Sensors may be or include accelerometers pressure sensors strain sensors or a combination of sensors. Motion control devices are depicted as being located near the mounting points of touchscreen . In one embodiment motion control devices are tension controlling device where one device is coupled to another device e.g. in a diagonal pattern across the middle of touchscreen etc. or to an anchoring point of device by a support. In such an embodiment in response to a touch induced force processing circuit determines a location of the touch and characteristics of the touch and controls motion control devices to counteract the force and motion induced by the touch. For example processing circuit may cause the top left and bottom right motion control devices to increase a tension of a support coupled therebetween. As another example processing circuit may cause the middle control devices to increase a tension of a support coupled therebetween. In another embodiment motion control devices are coupled to mounting points of touchscreen . In response to a touch induced force processing circuit determines a location of the touch and characteristics of the touch and controls motion control devices to apply a force to the mounting points to torque i.e. flex touchscreen and counteract the touch induced force. To determine the location and the characteristics of the touch e.g. determine a force amount calculate an induced momentum determine a linear motion induced by the touch determine an angular motion induced by the touch etc. the processing circuit analyzes the data provided by sensors . Processing circuit may interpolate or extrapolate the data if a touch location is not directly over a sensor. In one embodiment processing circuit may further communicate with a touch detection system of touchscreen e.g. a touch detection system of a commercially available touchscreen etc. . Such a touch detection system can provide location information when a touch is detected and processing circuit may utilize such information in determining how to control the motion control devices to counteract a touch.

Referring to a touchscreen device having a motion resistance system is shown according to one embodiment. Touchscreen device includes touchscreen which may be any type of touchscreen discussed herein. Touchscreen device includes processing circuit a plurality of motion control devices and a plurality of sensors configured to detect a touch induced motion on touchscreen . In one embodiment motion control devices are arranged in a grid pattern behind or coupled to touchscreen . For example motion control devices may be or include actuators configured to apply a force to touchscreen . Sensors are depicted in a grid pattern behind or coupled to touchscreen . Motion control devices may be paired with a sensor or motion control devices and sensors may be independently positioned. Sensors may be or include accelerometers pressure sensors strain sensors or a combination of sensors. In response to data provided by sensors processing circuit interprets a motion induced on touchscreen e.g. by determining a location of a touch an amount of motion etc. . Processing circuit may also utilize data from an integrated touch detection system of touchscreen in determining a location of a touch. Based on analyzing data from sensors processing circuit determines which motion control devices to activate and how much force should be applied to touchscreen in order to actively resist the motion induced on touchscreen by a touch. As discussed further below processing circuit may also receive data from applications running on touchscreen device in order to predict an upcoming touch and thereby actively begin motion resistance prior to the occurrence of the touch.

Referring to a detailed block diagram of processing circuit for implementing the systems and methods of the present disclosure is shown according to one embodiment. Processing circuit may be any of the processing circuits discussed herein. Processing circuit is generally configured to receive data from motion detection sensors e.g. accelerometers pressure sensors strain sensors etc. and utilize the data to control the operation of motion control devices e.g. tensioners actuators etc. . Processing circuit may be or include the processing components of a touchscreen device. As one example processing circuit can generate signals required to activate or deactivate motion control devices and control the force exerted by the motion control devices. As another example processing circuit may generate signals needed to communicate with a touch detection system of a touchscreen device in order to determine a location of a touch on the touchscreen. As another example processing circuit may generate signals necessary to communicate with motion detection sensors to determine characteristics of a touch. Processing circuit is further configured to receive configuration and preference data. Processing circuit may analyze this data to determine sensitivities and other operational characteristics related to the motion control devices which may be specified by a user or manufacturer. In analyzing data provided by motion detection sensors and controlling the operation of motion control devices processing circuit may make use of machine learning artificial intelligence interactions with local and or remote databases and database table lookups pattern recognition and logging intelligent control neural networks fuzzy logic etc.

According to one embodiment processing circuit includes processor . Processor may be implemented as a general purpose processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGAs a digital signal processor DSP a group of processing components suitable electronic processing components or any commercially available processor. Processing circuit also includes memory . Memory is one or more devices e.g. RAM ROM flash memory hard disk storage etc. for storing data and or computer code for facilitating the various processes described herein. Memory may be or include non transient volatile memory or non volatile memory. Memory may include database components object code components script components or any other type of information structure for supporting the various activities and information structures described herein. Memory may be communicably connected to processor and include computer code or instructions for executing the processes described herein.

Memory may include memory buffer . Memory buffer is configured to receive a data stream e.g. data from sensors data from motion control devices data from a user input device etc. through input . For example the data may include a real time stream of sensor data etc. The data received through input may be stored in memory buffer until memory buffer is accessed for data by the various modules of memory . For example motion resistance module can access the data that is stored in memory buffer .

Memory further includes configuration data . Configuration data includes data related to processing circuit . For example configuration data may include information related to interfacing with other components e.g. sensors of system components of devices or a user input device etc. and can include data required to configure communication between the various components of processing circuit . This may include the command set needed to interface with a computer system used to transfer user settings or otherwise set up the motion resistance systems described herein. This may further include the command set needed to generate graphical user interface GUI controls menus warning information feedback and visual information. As another example configuration data may include the command set needed to interface with communication components e.g. a universal serial bus USB interface a Wi Fi interface an Ethernet interface etc. so that data e.g. firmware configuration settings etc. may be transferred to and from processing circuit . Processing circuit may format data for output via output to allow a user to configure the systems as described herein. Processing circuit may also format visual information to be output for display on a display device. Processing circuit may also generate commands necessary to drive actuators or mechanical motion control devices. Configuration data may also include information as to how often input should be accepted from a sensor. Configuration data may include default values required to initiate communication with sensors motion control devices or other peripheral systems e.g. touch detection systems .

Processing circuit further includes input and output . Input includes one or more inputs configured to receive a data stream e.g. a stream of data from sensors and configuration and preference information. Input data may be accepted continuously or periodically. Output includes one or more outputs configured to provide output to other components of the systems as described herein. For example output may be utilized to control motion control devices. Output may also be used to communicate with external systems e.g. during a manufacturing or configuration process.

Memory further includes motion resistance module for executing the systems and methods described herein. Motion resistance module may access received sensor data configuration information user preference data and other data as provided by processing circuit . Motion resistance module is generally configured to analyze the sensor data determine a position and characteristics related to a touch of the corresponding touchscreen and control motion control devices based on such analysis. Motion resistance module may further interface with touch detection systems of a touchscreen device and software applications of the device. Motion resistance module may also predict touches of the touchscreen and control motion control devices based on such predictions. Motion resistance module may be further configured to operate according to a user s preferences. Accordingly the resistance of touch induced motion may be enabled disabled and configured according to a user s or manufacturer s desires. For example a certain touchscreen may have flexure stress limitations and motion resistance module may control the motion control devices so that the limitations are not exceeded.

In one embodiment motion resistance module is configured to treat a touchscreen as a rigid body and to appropriately control motion control devices to resist motion induced by a touch. For example motion resistance module may receive acceleration data from one or more accelerometers. Based on the acceleration data motion resistance module may determine that a touch is occurring and may further determine a linear or angular acceleration of the touch on the screen. As another example motion resistance module may receive data from one or more strain or pressure sensors. Motion resistance module may analyze such data to determine a flexure or deformation of the touchscreen induced by the touch. Knowledge of the site of the touch may be used by motion resistance module to further interpret a touch. In some embodiments motion resistance module is configured to determine a touch site based on the data it receives from the sensors. In some embodiments motion resistance module may receive location information from a touch detection system e.g. a capacitive or resistive based touch system etc. of the touchscreen. Data from a touch detection system may also be used in conjunction with sensor data to determine a touch site. Based on the touch site and the characteristics of the touch motion resistance module controls the motion control devices in order to resist motion induced by the touch. For example motion induced by the touch may be resisted by applying a force to one or more of the mounting points of the touchscreen. In an embodiment where the touchscreen is primarily fixed e.g. mounted to a wall laying on coupled to a rigid surface etc. the motion control devices may be coupled to such mounts. By applying a force to these mounts a force may be applied to the touchscreen to counteract the motion induced by the touch. By applying a torque to these mounts a torque may be applied to the touchscreen to counteract the motion induced by the touch. In another embodiment a motion control device may be located in on the touchscreen near its mount and apply force or torque between the touchscreen and mount in order to move the touchscreen. In one embodiment the touchscreen supports detection of multiple touches at a time and motion resistance module may cause the motion control devices to counteract the multiple simultaneous touches.

In one embodiment the motion control devices are arranged beneath a touchscreen and motion resistance module is configured to treat the touchscreen as a flexible body. In such an embodiment motion resistance module analyzes the data from the sensors and a touch detection system if available to determine a touch site and characteristics of a touch. Motion resistance module may cause the motion control devices to resist the touch induced motion by actively controlling an internal flexure of the touch screen at or near the site of the touch. For example an actuator may apply a force to the touchscreen to increase the screen s rigidity at a certain area. If the touch site is not directly over a motion control device motion resistance module may interpolate the sensor data of the touch to the touch site. For example based on the interpolation motion resistance module may cause a motion control device to exhibit a greater or weaker force than it otherwise would have if the touch site had been located over the motion control device. Additionally multiple touch control devices may be controlled simultaneously to achieve a desired flexure of the touchscreen. In one embodiment the touchscreen supports detection of multiple touches at a time and motion resistance module may cause the motion control devices to adjust flexures of the touchscreen at multiple locations e.g. to counteract the multiple simultaneous touches .

In one embodiment motion resistance module is configured to predict a touch and begin motion resistance measures prior to the touch. For example motion resistance module may maintain a user history of touches and motions induced on the touchscreen. Motion resistance module may analyze the history of touches to predict typical touch characteristics e.g. an average touch pressure touch length etc. . Motion resistance module may interface with a camera of the touchscreen device to analyze a stream of images in order to predict a touch location and occurrence. Based on these predictions motion resistance module may cause the motion control devices to begin to resist a predicted touch. As another example an application of the touchscreen device may maintain a history of user touches and corresponding characteristics e.g. locations forces timing information etc. . Based on such user history the application may predict a touch will occur and provide such prediction information to motion resistance module . Upon receiving information of a predicted touch motion resistance module may be triggered to begin actively resisting the predicted touch at its predicted location. An application may further base its prediction on application requirements. For example if an application generates a user interface menu having one or more user interface elements e.g. an ok button a cancel button a touch location scrollbar etc. the application may predict that a touch will soon occur at or near the user interface element. In this manner if an application is requesting a user s input e.g. to accept or cancel a prompt to confirm an action etc. the application may provide location information to motion resistance module so that motion resistance module may begin actively resisting a predicted touch at the location specified by the application e.g. the location of the requested user input etc. . In one embodiment motion resistance module provides a service application programming interface API for other applications to utilize. In this manner a third party application may actively request via the service motion resistance module to cause the motion control devices to resist a motion at a certain location. When providing such a request various resistance parameters e.g. a force amount of resistance a duration of resistance etc. may be specified by the application. Alternatively motion resistance module may determine how to appropriately resist the motion at the specified location which may be based on a maintained history of touches or configuration settings.

Referring to a flow diagram of process for actively resisting touch induced motion is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different actions may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of actions performed. Motion data is generated based on a touch induced motion of a display i.e. the screen of a touchscreen device . For example the motion can be induced by a touch from a user s finger or a stylus etc. Various sensors may be used to detect the motion and generate the motion data. In one embodiment accelerometers are utilized. In another embodiment pressure sensors are utilized. In another embodiment strain sensors are utilized. In another embodiment a combination of the sensors discussed herein is utilized. Characteristics of the touch can be determined based on the motion data. For example the motion data may be analyzed to determine or estimate a touch location on the display . The location of the touch may also be determined by receiving data from a touch detection system of the display that specifies a touch location . The motion data is further analyzed to determine a force e.g. an amount and type of force needed to counteract the motion at the touch location . For example the amount of momentum transferred to the display i.e. the force of the touch on the display may be calculated by analyzing the motion data and the amount of force required to counteract the momentum may be determined. A force is then applied to the display in order to appropriately counteract the touch induced motion of the display and the force is applied based on the touch location and the determined force . The force applied may be generated by any of the motion control devices as discussed herein. For example a force torque may be applied at or near the mounting points of the display . As another example a tension may be increased across different points of the display . As another example an internal flexure of the display may be controlled at one or more locations . In some embodiments a touch may be predicted and motion resistance may begin prior to the predicted touch .

The construction and arrangement of the systems and methods as shown in the various embodiments are illustrative only. Although only a few embodiments have been described in detail in this disclosure many modifications are possible e.g. variations in sizes dimensions structures shapes and proportions of the various elements values of parameters mounting arrangements use of materials colors orientations etc. . For example the position of elements may be reversed or otherwise varied and the nature or number of discrete elements or positions may be altered or varied. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure. The order or sequence of any process or method steps may be varied or re sequenced according to alternative embodiments. Other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing various operations. The embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented or modeled using existing computer processors or by a special purpose computer processor for an appropriate system incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system. Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Although the figures may show a specific order of method steps the order of the steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. All such variations are within the scope of the disclosure. Likewise software implementations could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various connection steps processing steps comparison steps and decision steps.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims.

