---

title: Transport communication pairing
abstract: A method, apparatus and non-transitory computer readable storage medium, in one embodiment, associating at least one wireless device and at least one user, requesting audio information from at least one remote source by the at least one wireless device, receiving the audio information from the remote source, broadcasting an audio identifier to the at least one wireless device, using the audio information, authenticating the association between the at least one wireless device and at least one transport, based on the audio information, determining at least one characteristic of the at least one user based on at least one of at least one user search history and at least one user preference selection and determining at least one probable route of the at least one transport based on the at least one characteristic and at least one of at least one route history and at least one input destination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09335173&OS=09335173&RS=09335173
owner: Open Invention Network, LLC
number: 09335173
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140910
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 155 488 filed on Jan. 15 2014 entitled TRANSPORT COMMUNICATION PAIRING now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 843 317 issued on Sep. 23 2014. This application is also related to commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 155 451 filed on Jan. 15 2014 entitled TRANSPORT COMMUNICATION which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and filed on even date herewith.

This disclosure relates to an apparatus non transitory computer readable media and method of transport communication pairing and more particularly to pairing utilizing audio signals the communication of a wireless device with a transport.

Conventionally users utilizing a wireless device in a transport operate independently and do not access and integrate data to link communication of the wireless device and transport.

In one embodiment a method comprises at least one of associating at least one wireless device and at least one user requesting audio information from at least one remote source by said at least one wireless device receiving said audio information from said remote source broadcasting an audio identifier to said at least one wireless device using said audio information authenticating said association between said at least one wireless device and at least one transport based on said audio information determining at least one characteristic of said at least one user based on at least one of at least one user search history and at least one user preference selection and determining at least one probable route of said at least one transport based on said at least one characteristic and at least one of at least one route history and at least one input destination.

In another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one of a processor configured to associate at least one wireless device and at least one user request audio information from at least one remote source by said at least one wireless device receive said audio information from said remote source by said at least one wireless device broadcast an audio identifier to said at least one wireless device that uses said audio information authenticate said association between said at least one wireless device and at least one transport based on said audio information determine at least one characteristic of said at least one user based on at least one of at least one user search history and at least one user preference selection and determine at least one probable route of said at least one transport based on said at least one characteristic and at least one of at least one route history and at least one input destination.

In a further embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium configured to store instructions that when executed causes a processor to perform at least one of associating at least one wireless device and at least one user requesting audio information from at least one remote source by said at least one wireless device receiving said audio information from said remote source broadcasting an audio identifier to said at least one wireless device using said audio information authenticating said association between said at least one wireless device and at least one transport based on said audio information determining at least one characteristic of said at least one user based on at least one of at least one user search history and at least one user preference selection and determining at least one probable route of said at least one transport based on said at least one characteristic and at least one of at least one route history and at least one input destination.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present disclosure as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the examples of a method apparatus and system as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure as claimed but is merely representative of selected examples of the disclosure.

The features structures or characteristics of the disclosure described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more examples. For example the usage of the phrases examples some examples or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example may be included in at least one example of the present disclosure. Thus appearances of the phrases examples in some examples in other examples or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of examples and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more examples.

Example examples provide a wireless user device. The device may be a computer laptop mobile wireless or cellular phone a PDA a tablet a client a server or any device that contains a processor and or memory whether that processor or memory performs a function related to an example. The present disclosure may work with any device such as a personal computer with a touch screen a laptop with a touch screen a personal computing tablet a smartphone or any device with a processor memory and a touch screen.

The current disclosure allows interaction between a user device such as a wired and or wireless device and a transport wherein a transport can be a car bus subway train motorcycle bicycle boat plane spaceship submarine or any other object that can transport a human being and or goods.

This interaction is intuitive in nature due to the transports processor s and or memory ies on the transport or off the transport and in communication with the transport having knowledge of one or more of the passengers or the user s interests schedule etc. and or through specific knowledge of one or more of the transport s data stored which may be stored in at least on of on the transport on a device embedded in the transport on a device used in the transport and off of the transport such as in the cloud .

The application as referenced to in the current disclosure resides on or in communication with the user s transport. The transport is considered a connected transport if it is a transport that is equipped with Internet access including with a wireless local area Network LAN . This application allows the transport to share Internet access to devices both inside and outside of the transport. Often the transport is also equipped with special technologies that provide additional functionalities to the user s of the transport. Increasingly connected transports are taking advantage of the use of smartphones and applications apps are available to interact with the car from any distance through the use of the Internet. Users are able to send remote signals from the Internet to unlock their cars check the status of elements of the transport find the location of the transport remotely activate the climate control system of the transport etc.

Interaction between a transport and a user can occur for various reasons. The transport aware of specific aspects of the user can offer suggestions according to various aspects of the trip to a given destination. For example provide locations to the user that the user may find interesting and otherwise not be aware of.

The attention state of the user is calculated as determined by the amount of attention the user should have according to the current state of the transport.

The Device may be a mobile device or a more traditional computer such as a desktop laptop or may be a tablet computer eBook reading device mp3 player or any such device with a processor memory and display. The application in the form of software for example may be downloaded from the System through the Network or that currently resides on the Transport and or Device . The device contains a speaker from which audio information may be received by the transport to initiate pairing of the device to the transport.

The elements in the system may include fewer or greater components or different components such as wired or wireless electronic devices such as clients servers phones tablets and computers as well as various Networks such as the Internet intranets and public and private Networks without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The Transport and Device is connected to the Network and are paired using audio information provided by either the transport of the device to the other. It should be noted that other types of devices in addition to devices might be used with the present disclosure. For example a PDA a tablet computer a laptop an MP3 player a gaming device such as a hand held system or home based system and the like including a P.C. or other wired device that can also transmit and receive information could be used with the present disclosure.

The user of the application will interface with the Transport and or Device may be paired by audio information and connect through the Network to the System . The System can be redundant or be more than an entity without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. A database is directly connected to the system or connected remotely through the Network without deviating from the scope of the disclosure.

The application resides completely or partially on the Transport and or the Device which can be a transport and or a mobile device and can also reside on a user s desktop computer a personal digital assistant PDA tablet computer or any other device containing a processor memory and an operating system. In addition the application can reside on either completely or partially on any one of the other elements in the system depicted in for example the System the Database and or the Network . A database is directly connected to the system can be a part of co located with the system or connected remotely through the Network without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. Also present may be one or more Remote System s connected through the Network . These remote systems may provide additional remote databases allowing access to more data through the Network . If the application resides on a Transport and or a Device the application can be downloaded through a platform such as an application store or market residing on the device or accessed via the device.

The user interacts with the application executing on the Transport and or the Device via a pointing device a computer keyboard finger hand gesture speech eye or iris control or any other commonly used input devices. Any of these terms used herein can refer to one another.

The current disclosure may work with any device such as a personal computer with a touch screen a laptop with a touch screen a personal computing tablet a smartphone or any device with a processor memory and a screen including a touch screen.

Data that is utilized for applications is no longer exclusively stored on the same device executing the application and certainly may be . The data can be stored remotely or on the cloud i.e. accessed and stored via and or in the Network which may be the Internet or other data Network not shown . In this configuration and this particular example this data does not reside on a particular device and resides external to the device. The data is obtained by a connection to the Network . As the separation of the application and its associated data grows more and more applications store the associated data in the cloud allowing access to data that is stored remotely through the connection to the Network . A benefit of this is that the same data is available on every device used.

By obtaining data through the cloud a transport can determine certain intuitive observations that are depicted in detail below. This document serves to functionally examine particular scenarios to give the reader an overall understanding of the inherent functionality introduced through the current disclosure. Other intuitive applications can utilize a similar approach to the functionality introduced herein without deviating from the scope of the current disclosure.

Today more and more applications are utilizing the cloud or the Network to store data pertaining to a user and or a device. These applications allow the storing and retrieval of any amount of data at any time with worldwide access. Application Programming Interfaces APIs are published wherein developers can obtain methods and procedures to take advantage of reliable and fast Networking infrastructure to perform data operations in a secure and cost effective manner.

Cloud storage provides functionalities and capabilities making storing sharing and managing data efficient and reliable. Data can be terabytes in size. Cloud storage provides strong read after write consistency for upload and deletion operations. This means that after an object is successfully uploaded you can download it immediately delete it or get access to its metadata. Once propagation through the Network list operations are eventually consistent from anywhere. Furthermore by configuring the APIs access to the data s objects and buckets are controlled. Data can be shared with the entire world a particular group by a specific domain or users with particular accounts.

The current disclosure relies on the storage of data in the cloud and the transport and users device s having access to this data.

The more intuitive element of the current disclosure is based on the fact that the Transport and or the Device understand certain aspects of the user and that the transport and device have been paired utilizing audio information . An understanding is accomplished by the Transport and or the Device obtaining access to the cloud thereby obtaining access to the System and or the Remote Systems through the Network . The System and or Remote Systems collect and store certain information related to the user when interacting with devices that are connected to the cloud. The application attempts to determine the user s personal interests by examining any of the following but not limited to the following 

Among the various means to determine the interests of a given user one of the beneficial methods is examining the user s search history. This search history is located in the user s computer i.e. desktop laptop mobile device or any other device that contains a memory and processor which is connected to the Network . Examining the user s Web searching history provides a window into what the user is interested in through an understanding how the user has utilized the Internet in the past.

When searching the Internet the user will utilize a web browser regardless of the device being accessed. Upon visiting a website or navigating to a Uniform Resource Locator URL a small amount of data will be stored on the user s device called a cookie. A cookie also known as an HTTP cookie web cookie or browser cookie is a small piece of data sent from a website and stored in a user s web browser while a user is browsing a website. When the user browses the same website in the future the data stored in the cookie is sent back to the website by the browser to notify the website of the user s previous activity. Cookies were designed to be a reliable mechanism for websites to remember the state of the website or activity the user had taken in the past. This can include clicking particular buttons logging in or a record of which pages were visited by the user.

In one example the System is utilized to examine the data stored in the Database . The System performs queries on the Database to determine specific reoccurring data for example the user s hobbies.

In other examples other methods can be employed to gain an understanding of the user s previous Internet surfing history. Various companies for instance offer free services that users can utilize to perform email capabilities manage groups search the web manage advertisements manage calendar activities manage documents as well as many other services. Data associated with these services can be interworked with the current disclosure to aid in determining the interests of the user by sending this data to the System and finally the Database utilizing similar methods and procedures depicted in .

The System processes the details of the Transport and or the Device and retains access to the connected Database . As such the Transport and or the Device are in communication with the System allowing the System to intuitively make suggestions through the Transport and or the Device for example.

In one example the Transport and or the Device communicates with the System in one or more of the following instances 

In the first scenario above the Transport and or the Device communicate with the System wherein the Transport and or the Device may send information to the System and or the System may send information to the Transport and or Device . This may occur when the user is traveling to a destination.

The communication sent from the System to the Transport and or Device contains information that may be of interest to the user of the current disclosure nonetheless information that is not requested. The current disclosure allows for the System to have the insight through 

In the second scenario above the application residing on the Transport and or Device attempts to communicate with the System when the user of the current disclosure specifically enters a destination into the application. For example when the user is on a lengthy trip to a destination.

In the third scenario the application residing on the Transport and or the Device may communicate with the System without the interaction of the user s data. This information may be limited in comparison to obtaining the full user s data nevertheless the System may still communicate with the Transport and or the Device .

In another example the user of the application of the current disclosure enters configuration data into a form henceforth referred to the configuration module of the application. This configuration module may be part of the application of the current disclosure executing on either the Transport and or the Device . The configuration module assists with configuring the System with the defaults and preferences of the user allowing the System to more intuitively correspond with the user.

The System builds data from the user by accessing data that the user has made available through pre authorization at the application s initiation. This deep recording of data allows the System to offer intuitive interactions to the user when utilizing the Transport and or the Device .

The Database stores data from many possibly disparate sources. The user may utilize various scheduling programs. For example scheduling applications are available on mobile devices which can store the scheduling information in remote databases. Also many online services offer calendar applications that are in their nature cloud services.

For the first item the system determines when the user s next appointment schedule is from the current time. Many calendar applications that are cloud based allow a user to share the calendar and scheduling data with a 3rd party. Through this functionality or another environment wherein the data is uploaded to a Remote Server and published APIs allow interactions to query the stored data the user s schedule is obtained. The system queries the schedule data as necessary to determine the appointments of the user.

For the second item the System queries the Database to determine the amount of time until the user s next scheduled appointment. The user s schedule is sync d with the System and the Database . The application calculates the amount of time between the current time and the next scheduled appointment.

For the third item the user s hobbies are calculated. The user s hobbies are of interest as it allows the system to determine the possible interest level in various scenarios. Understanding the user s hobbies will help the System to determine if there may be interest in a store that may be related to the user s hobby and or that is offering a bargain near to where the user is located. For example if the items on sale match a user s hobby there is a greater chance that the user may be interested in going to that store.

The System can obtain the hobbies of the user by an examination of the groups that the user is a part of analyzing the emails looking for keywords associated with a particular hobby examining online purchase of the user or any other methods included in the this specification.

For the fourth item the favored stores are listed. These are stores that the user regularly visits or that the user has indicated as favorites.

In one example the user s favorite stores are determined by any stores that the user has bookmarked on the Device . This data is sent to the System and finally stored in the Database in the same manner as depicted in .

In another example the favorite stores are determined by analyzing the geographic history of the user s movements. If the user regularly visits a business then that store would be listed in the favored list. The location history of the Device can be stored by online applications that regularly store the historical location of the device in Remote Systems . This data contains a history of the user geographic locations.

In another example the historical web search queries performed by the user can be utilized to determine businesses where the user has sought information of the business for example the store hours. Also by examining the phone records of the user s IP and or mobile device phone records the System determines the stores that have a high interest of the user.

For the fifth item the interested sports are listed. These are sports wherein the user has a high interest. For example the System can scan the user s data for example emails phone records groups etc. and record the names of sports found. A hierarchal list of instances of sports names is made and the top X number of sports names are listed. This data is obtained by querying one or more of the Device s the Remote System s and or any other element in the System Diagram. The System collects this data in manners similar to depicted flowcharts and or .

The list of sports will help the System determine the interest level of the user for specific scenarios pertaining to a sport. For example the System can scan the user s data for example emails phone records groups etc and record the names of sports found. A hierarchal list of instances of sports names is made and the top X number of sports names are listed. This data is obtained by querying one or more of the Device s the Remote System s and or any other element in the System Diagram. The System collects this data in manners similar to depicted flowcharts and or . For example gauging the interest that a user may have in a store or a possibly nearby sporting event that the user may not be aware of and would be highly interested in if the System brought it to the user s attention.

For the sixth item the preferences of the driver are listed. This preference list may be determined by allowing the user to enter the data at configuration of the application.

Knowing the driving preferences of the user allows the system to bring to the user s attention an alternate route to a destination that may match the user s driving preferences. The driving preferences are obtained when the user enters the preferences at the configuration procedure of the application of the current disclosure. The user has the option to enter the driving preferences by selecting from the choices offered in the GUI of the configuration part of the application.

For example there may be an alternate route to a destination that includes historic sites or lookout sites wherein the user may be highly interested. The Transport and or the Device then communicates to the user of the alternate route available along with the reason that the user may be interested in the alternate route. The user will then be able to respond by asking for more information and the Transport can query the System for more information and make this available to the user.

In the seventh item the user is able to provide the driving preferences allowing the Transport and or the Device to offer better routes that are closer to the preferences of the user. This data may be entered into the system by the user at configuration of the application. Knowing the driving preferences allows the Transport and or the Device to match the preferences of the user at a more intuitive level.

The Transport and or the Device are a Connected Transport thereby having access to the cloud or the Network . This connection allows the user to obtain specific data about the user giving the application executing in the transport intuitive insight.

For example a user of the current disclosure may be traveling to a given location. This destination is stored in the cloud and therefore is available to the transport.

As the user travels the transport has details of the specific geographic location of the transport by obtaining the GPS data from the System or internal to the transport. The current location of the Transport and or the Device is sent through the Network and stored in the System and or the Database in a manner similar to the destination as depicted above.

Having the data in the cloud devices that have the proper authentication are able to have access to the data making intuitive interactions. In this scenario the Transport obtains access to the user s scheduling information . The User s Device synchronizes the scheduling information on the device with the cloud. In this scenario both the System and the Database represent the cloud. A Schedule Update message is represented to reflect the synchronization of the user s scheduling information. This message is propagated through the Network and through the System and finally written into the Database . This synchronization of the User s Data is made when the change is made to the scheduling information regardless of where the user is geographically located. The device must retain Internet access for the synchronization to occur. In cases where there is no Internet access the synchronization will occur when the user obtains Internet access by utilizing the protocol that the user is utilizing for cloud storage. Transport and Device have been paired utilizing audio information provided by either the transport or the device.

The transport queries the user s schedule by sending a Query Schedule message that is propagated through the Network and through the System and finally the Database is queried.

The response to the query is sent in response giving the Transport the up to date knowledge of the user s schedule. This scheduling information can be obtained for particular timeframe for example the day the week the month etc.

Furthermore in this scenario the user is in the transport that is an element in the system of the current disclosure. The transport knowing the destination of the trip is also aware of specific information from businesses local to where the transport is currently located.

The ability to obtain data of stores that are offering bargains exists in applications widely available. For example applications are available that show bargains with respect to where the user is geographically. These applications allow the user to search by location by keyword and by category including Clothing Apparel Furniture Health Beauty Sports Fitness Toys and more . These results are displayed in a map that is made available on the user s device. The application also shows how far the user is from the business offering the bargain s .

The System knowing the current location of the user in the Transport can attempt to locate business that are currently offering sales that may be of interest to the user.

The System can query the stores that may be of interest to the user by using both the hobbies of the user as well as stores of the user that have been previously stored in the Database . The published sales of the stores are regularly published to the Internet. By matching the sales of the stores with what the hobbies of the user is as well as stores where the user usually shops the System brings this information to the Transport and or the Device allowing the information to be presented to the user for example via text verbally or through a speech or multi media announcement . The user would then be able to confirm the change in the destination to the store or reject the change and continue to the original destination.

The System regularly informs the Transport and or the Device of information that may be of interest knowing the current geographical location of the Transport and or the Device . This is functionally communicated by the System sending an Information message to the Transport. This Information message contains any necessary information to make the Transport aware of messages that would be of high interest to the user.

This interaction with the data of businesses is obtained from Remote Systems communicated with through the Network . These Remote Systems are systems in place that offer APIs available to developers allowing querying of data regarding sales and discount purchase opportunities.

The flow begins with the Transport sending the current geographic location in a Current Location message . This message is sent to the Network and routed to the System .

Upon reception of this message the System queries the Database to obtain a list of stores that may be of interest to the user. A Query Stores of Interest message is sent to the Database . This message may be a structured query message according to the particular implementation of the database.

The Database responds with a Response Stores of Interest message . This message may be an automatic response to the query message according to the particular implementation of the database. This message may also be one of many responses according to the particular implementation of the database. This message contains a list of interesting stores according to one or more of the following elements of the user 

Having a list of stores of interest to the user the System utilizes the current geographic location of the Transport to determine a list of stores of interest in the geographic location of the Transport . The amount of distance between the Transport and the located store is configurable through the configuration functionality of the application. For example the choices of distance are 1 mile 5 miles and 10 miles.

In another example the distance between the Transport and the store is calculated by time taking into consideration the current traffic pattern. Current map applications allow the calculation of the time to locations taking into consideration the current traffic pattern.

The System queries the Database to determine the amount of free time according to the user s current schedule by sending a Query Schedule message to the Database . This message may be a structured query message according to the particular implementation of the database.

The Database responds with a Response Schedule message sent back to the System . This message may be a structured query message according to the particular implementation of the database.

The System then calculates the amount of free time the user has according to the schedule . The system sends a Query Stores For Bargains message to the Remote System s . This message is sent to the Network and routed to the Remote System s .

In one example the message calls published 3rd party APIs wherein current bargains are returned for given stores.

The current bargains are returned to the System in a Bargains message . This message contains details of current sales ongoing at the store and may contain sales in particular departments of the store. The System parses through the sales and or the sales in the particular departments to determine the interest in the stores bargains.

In another example the amount of interest of the bargain is input by the user of the application at configuration time wherein the user is able to input the amount of bargain. For example the configuration contains the following 

The user is able to input a number in this configuration element that will help the System determine the interest in the store s current sales. If the current bargain is equal to or greater than the configuration element then the store s bargain is made aware to the Transport .

Therefore with this information pertaining to the user stores of interest as well as current bargains nearby the System brings to the user s attention the opportunity for the user to take advantage of a current nearby bargain by sending a Nearby Bargain message to the Transport . The message also includes the amount of free time according to the user s schedule helping the user to determine if there is enough time to travel to the business offering the bargain. The transport makes this aware to the user by announcing the following to the user 

There is a 40 off sale for hunting apparel at the Cabela s business located 3 miles from your current location. Your next appointment is 4 hours from now.

The system allows for interaction between the transport and the user. Therefore the user can respond by texting or verbally responding the following 

The responses above serve to exemplify possible responses offered by the user. One versed in programming can easily implement other similar responses without deviating from the scope of the current disclosure.

If the 1 or 2 responses are given the Transport alters the destination to the business offering the bargain by updating the destination to the System by sending an Update Destination message to the System or updating the internal GPS device internal to the Transport or updating the Device .

If the 4 response is given the application cancels the procedure and the current destination remains.

If the 3 or 5 responses are given the system queries the Remote System s by sending a More Information message to the System attempting to locate additional information that was not provided in the first interaction and relays it to the user in a Response More Information message. This may include store hours store location description of ongoing and or upcoming sales etc. This information can be obtained from the Remote System s utilizing APIs specifically designed for interactions with shoppers. The Transport communicates with The Remote System s through the Network . The Remote System s may have a connected and or remote database utilized to store information about users.

If the 6 response is given the user is given the ability to purchase an item online if available. In this scenario the System delivers a particular item on sale at a nearby store. The Bargains message returns a specific item on sale from a store of interest one of the stores in the list returned in the Response Stores of Interest message . This item is delivered in the Nearby Bargain message and delivered to the Transport . For example the following is delivered to the user in the Transport 

The Timber Ridge Split Decision Pack Combo is on sale at Cabela s store for 29.88 located 3 miles from your current location. Your next appointment is 4 hours from now.

In one example of the current disclosure the method of payment is entered by the user at the configuration element of the application of the current disclosure. The method of payment can be a credit debit card a form of Internet payment bank account information or any other regularly utilized payment form regularly utilized for Internet purchases. This configuration of payment is stored in the System by sending a message through the Network to the System . The System then stores the payment configuration in the Database . This message may be a structured query message according to the particular implementation of the database.

The payment configuration is sent to the System in the Response message . This message may be the response to a structured query message according to the particular implementation of the database.

The System sends a Purchase message to a Remote System . This message may in one example interwork with published APIs available throughout the market. For example current retailers are making available APIs that allow interworking with their Point Of Sale database s allowing functional interworking with the systems through adjacent applications.

For example one large retailer has published a product entitled Commerce API a platform that allows partners to conduct commerce within their e commerce or web based applications. Commerce API combined with other APIs provides developers and partners a rich set of capabilities including 

Additionally Commerce API gives you access to Flexible Fulfillment Options including In store pickup friends and family pickup and finally ship to home.

Utilizing these APIs the Purchase message allows for the purchasing of the product wherein the Remote System responds with a Response message sent back to the System . This response message contains the purchase response.

Finally a Response message is sent to the Transport for a validation of the purchase or details of the point of failure if the purchase was unable to be completed.

In another example of the current disclosure the transport s window is used as a computer monitor to interact with the examples described above.

In this example the non driving user is able to interact with functionalities with the application responding to the input from the System . The window displays the results from the System and the user is able to respond to the data and make decisions that drive the direction of the logic in the application. The user may interface through the device and connect through the network to the system . The system can be redundant or may be more than an entity without deviating from the scope of the present disclosure. The device and the system will connect through the network to one or a plurality of offsite systems through the network .

In another example method may further comprise enabling the at least one wireless device and the at least one transport to communicate through audio signals using audible frequencies ranking at least one suggestion of at least one route deviation based at least on the at least one characteristic of the at least one user and determined at least one probable route and analyzing the at least one user search history to determine at least one of at least one user hobby at least one user sport at least one user group and at least one user interest.

The method may also comprise rating at least one suggestion of at least one route deviation based at least on the at least one characteristic of the at least one user and determined at least one probable route determining at least one user location and encoding the audio information using a frequency shift keying method. The audio information may comprise encoding the audio information into the audio identifier where the audio information comprises the audio identifier and the at least one wireless device comprises a handheld device.

In another example the processor may also be configured to rank at least one suggestion of at least one route deviation based at least on the at least one characteristic of the at least one user and determined at least one probable route rate at least one suggestion of at least one route deviation based at least on the at least one characteristic of the at least one user and determined at least one probable route enable the at least one wireless device and the at least one transport to communicate through audio signals using audible frequencies and encode the audio information into the audio identifier. The audio information may also comprise the audio identifier.

In another example the processor may also perform ranking at least one suggestion of at least one route deviation based at least on the at least one characteristic of the at least one user and determined at least one probable route enabling the at least one wireless device and the at least one transport to communicate through audio signals using audible frequencies and encoding the audio information into the audio identifier.

The operations of a method or algorithm described in connection with the examples disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a computer program executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. For example a computer program may reside in random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components. For example a network element which may represent any of the above described network components etc.

Although an exemplary example of the system method and computer readable medium of the present disclosure has been illustrated in the accompanied drawings and described in the foregoing detailed description it will be understood that the application is not limited to the examples disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure as set forth and defined by the following claims. For example the capabilities of the systems can be performed by one or more of the modules or components described herein or in a distributed architecture. For example the functionality performed by the individual modules may be performed by one or more of these modules. Further the functionality described herein may be performed at various times and in relation to various events internal or external to the modules or components. Also the information sent between various modules can be sent between the modules via at least one of a data network the Internet a voice network an Internet Protocol network a wireless device a wired device and or via plurality of protocols. Also the messages sent or received by any of the modules may be sent or received directly and or via one or more of the other modules.

While preferred examples of the present disclosure have been described it is to be understood that the examples described are illustrative only and the scope of the disclosure is to be defined solely by the appended claims when considered with a full range of equivalents and modifications e.g. protocols hardware devices software platforms etc. thereto.

