---

title: Systems and methods for identifying objects and providing information related to identified objects
abstract: Systems and methods for identifying an object and presenting additional information about the identified object are provided. The techniques of the present invention can allow the user to specify modes to help with identifying objects. Furthermore, the additional information can be provided with different levels of detail depending on user selection. Apparatus for presenting a user with a log of the identified objects is also provided. The user can customize the log by, for example, creating a multi-media album.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454295&OS=09454295&RS=09454295
owner: APPLE INC.
number: 09454295
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140714
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 927 filed Jul. 23 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 781 262 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 214 387 filed Jun. 17 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 229 160 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 010 029 filed Jan. 3 2008 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This relates to portable electronic devices and more particularly to systems and methods for identifying objects and for providing information related to the identified objects.

Portable electronic devices such as wireless and cellular telephones digital media players e.g. music players and video players and hybrid devices that combine telephone and media playing functionality are known. These portable electronic devices can include for example a camera that may be capable of capturing an image of an object but such devices cannot provide a user with other related information about the object. For example a user may be in an art museum looking at a piece of art. Although the portable electronic device might be capable of taking a picture of the art the portable electronic device does not have the capability to provide the user with detailed information about the piece of art such as the name of the painter or any other related information. In fact the portable electronic device might not even have the capability of identifying the object itself.

As another example the user can use a portable electronic device to listen to an audio tour that may provide recorded information about pieces of art. Although the user may be allowed to fast forward or rewind the audio tour the information provided by the audio tour is fixed. Therefore the user can not access information about other art in the museum that has not been recorded as part of the audio tour. Moreover even for the art that is included on the audio tour the user is limited to the information that has already been recorded.

As still another example the user can download podcasts about different art exhibits on a portable electronic device. However the information provided by the podcasts is still fixed because the user can not immediately request for additional information located elsewhere.

Furthermore while these portable electronic devices may be able to display pictures taken previously such portable electronic devices may not be able to provide a user with historical information about what the user has already seen. For example the user may have visited a zoo and may have used the portable electronic device to take a picture of the front entrance of the zoo. Although the user can show the picture to a friend days later the user can not use the portable electronic device to find the zoo s location.

In view of the foregoing it would be desirable to provide systems and methods that provide a user with the capability to view an object s identity and obtain additional information about the identified object. It would also be desirable to provide a user with the capability to access a history of previously identified objects.

In accordance with the invention a portable electronic device and method of operation are provided in which the device can attempt to identify an object and obtain additional information about the identified object. The portable electronic device can additionally provide a history of previously identified objects to the user.

In some embodiments in order to detect an object the portable electronic device can automatically determine the current environment and based on the determined environment select a detection technology e.g. a RFID reader a camera and an IR image capture device . For example if the portable electronic device detects active RFID tags broadcasting signals to the RFID reader the portable electronic device can use the RFID reader to detect objects.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can allow the user to select a mode based on the types of objects that the user wants to identify. Based on the selected mode the portable electronic device can adjust parameters used for searching an identification database. For example if the user selects to identify an object in a MUSEUM mode the portable electronic device can search the identification database for objects that are commonly found in a museum. In some embodiments the portable electronic device can determine the location of the user to help identify an object. For example if the user is determined to be in Las Vegas and the portable electronic device is set to a RESTAURANT mode the device can limit the search of the identification database to restaurants in Las Vegas.

In some embodiments if the portable electronic device produces multiple candidate identifications the portable electronic device can select a best candidate identification based on certain criteria. In response to the user correcting the selected identification the portable electronic device can automatically modify the criteria based on the user input.

After an object has been identified the portable electronic device can provide additional information about the identified object. In some embodiments the portable electronic device can search for the additional information based on the previously defined mode. In some embodiments the portable electronic device can provide additional information with incrementally increasing levels of detail e.g. basic detailed and extended .

In addition a log can be provided to the user which includes a history of previously identified objects. In some embodiments the user can customize the log to display information in various ways. For example the user may create a multi media album based on objects that were identified in a particular mode. A self guided museum tour can be created from the multi media album that provides the right amount of information for the user.

Therefore in accordance with the present invention there are provided systems and methods for providing a user with the identity of an object and additional information about the identified object. These systems and methods can include a portable electronic device that can make automatic adjustments to the identification process and adjust the additional information provided based on user input.

There is also provided a portable electronic device apparatus for providing a user with a log of previously identified objects. The user can customize the log by for example creating a multi media album.

Display component is illustrated in as a display screen that may be integrated into portable electronic device . Display component does not have to be integrated into portable electronic device and may also be external to portable electronic device . For example display component may be a computer monitor television screen and or any other graphical user interface textual user interface or combination thereof. Display component may enable portable electronic device to playback the video portion of video content and or may serve as part of the user interface displaying command menus or serve any other suitable display functions.

User input component is illustrated in as a click wheel. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that user input component may also be any other type of user input component or device such as for example a mouse keyboard trackball slider bar one or more buttons portable electronic device pad dial or any combination thereof. User input component may also include a multi touch screen such as that described in Westerman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 323 846 issued Nov. 27 2001 entitled Method and Apparatus for Integrating Manual Input which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. User input component may emulate a rotary phone or a multi button portable electronic device pad which may be implemented on a touch screen or the combination of a click wheel or other user input device and a screen. A more detailed discussion of such a rotary phone interface may be found for example in McKillop et al. U.S. Publ. No. 2007 0152983 published Jul. 5 2007 entitled Touch Pad with Symbols based on Mode which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some embodiments portable electronic device can be a portable computing device dedicated to processing multi media data files and presenting that processed data to the user. For example device can be an iPod available by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. a dedicated media player e.g. MP3 player a game player a remote controller a portable communication device a remote ordering interface or other suitable personal device. In some embodiments portable electronic device can be a portable device dedicated to providing multi media processing and telephone functionality in single integrated unit such as an iPhone available from Apple Inc.

Portable electronic device may be battery operated and highly portable so as to allow a user to listen to music play games or videos record video or take pictures place and take telephone calls communicate with other people or devices control other devices and any combination thereof. In addition portable electronic device may be sized such that it fits relatively easily into a pocket or hand of the user. By being handheld portable electronic device is relatively small and easily handled and utilized by its user and thus may be taken practically anywhere the user travels.

Portable electronic device can include processor storage user interface display memory input output circuitry communications circuitry identification module and or bus . In some embodiments portable electronic device can include more than one of each component or circuitry shown in but for the sake of clarity and illustration only one of each is shown in . In addition persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionality of certain components and circuitry may be combined or omitted and that additional components and circuitry which are not shown in may be included in portable electronic device .

Processor can include for example circuitry for and be configured to perform any function. Processor may be used to run operating system applications media playback applications media editing applications and or any other application. Processor can drive display and can receive user inputs from user interface .

Storage can be for example one or more storage mediums including for example a hard drive flash memory permanent memory such as ROM semi permanent memory such as RAM any other suitable type of storage component or any combination thereof. Storage can store for example media data e.g. music and video files application data e.g. for implementing functions on device firmware preference information data e.g. media playback preferences lifestyle information data e.g. food preferences exercise information data e.g. information obtained by exercise monitoring equipment transaction information data e.g. information such as credit card information wireless connection information data e.g. information that may enable device to establish a wireless connection subscription information data e.g. information that keeps track of podcasts or television shows or other media a user subscribes to contact information data e.g. telephone numbers and email addresses calendar information data any other suitable data or any combination thereof.

User interface can allow a user to interact with portable electronic device . For example user interface may take a variety of forms such as at least one a button keypad dial a click wheel a touch screen or any combination thereof.

Display can accept and or generate signals for presenting media information textual and or graphic on a display screen such as those discussed above. For example display may include a coder decoder CODEC to convert digital media data into analog signals. Display also can include display driver circuitry and or circuitry for driving display driver s . The display signals can be generated by processor or display . The display signals can provide media information related to media data received from communications circuitry and or any other component of portable electronic device . In some embodiments display like any other component discussed herein may be integrated with and or externally coupled to portable electronic device .

Memory can include one or more different types of memory which may be used for performing device functions. For example memory can include cache Flash ROM RAM or one or more different types of memory used for temporarily storing data. Memory may be specifically dedicated to storing firmware. For example memory can be provided for storing firmware for device applications e.g. operating system user interface functions and processor functions .

Input output circuitry can convert and encode decode if necessary data analog signals and other signals e.g. physical contact inputs physical movements analog audio signals etc. into digital data and vice versa. The digital data may be provided to and received from processor storage memory or any other component of portable electronic device . Although input output circuitry is illustrated in as a single component of portable electronic device a plurality of input output circuitry may be included in portable electronic device . Input output circuitry can be used to interface with any input or output component such as those discussed in connection with . For example portable electronic device can include specialized input circuitry associated with input devices such as for example one or more microphones cameras proximity sensors accelerometers ambient light detectors etc. Portable electronic device can also include specialized output circuitry associated with output devices such as for example one or more speakers etc.

Communications circuitry can permit portable electronic device to communicate with one or more servers or other devices using any suitable communications protocol. For example communications circuitry may support Wi Fi e.g. a 802.11 protocol Ethernet Bluetooth which is a trademark owned by Bluetooth Sig Inc. high frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communication systems infrared TCP IP e.g. any of the protocols used in each of the TCP IP layers HTTP BitTorrent FTP RTP RTSP SSH any other communications protocol or any combination thereof.

Identification module can include any suitable type of technology for detecting and identifying objects. For example identification module may include radio frequency identification RFID tag readers infrared IR image capture device a camera capable of identifying objects barcode scanner biometric reader proximity card reader electronic product code reader any other detection technology or any combination thereof. In some embodiments identification module can activate a camera that is operative for capturing images of objects to be identified. In some embodiments identification module can activate an IR image capture device e.g. camera or sensors that is operative for capturing IR images of the objects to be identified. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that identification module can use any suitable pattern recognition algorithms to identify objects.

In some embodiments identification module can activate a RFID tag reader that is operative for detecting RFID tags that are located on objects. Identification module may be operative to read passive active and or semi passive RFID tags. For example while the user is looking at pieces of art in an art museum identification module can activate the RFID tag reader to read passive RFID tags. In response to the activation the RFID tag reader can generate a query to passive RFID tags that are attached to pieces of art nearby. The RFID tags can respond to the query by generating radio frequency signals back to the RFID reader.

Bus may provide a data transfer path for transferring data to from or between processor storage user interface display memory input output circuitry communications circuitry and identification module .

Any suitable circuitry device system or combination of these e.g. a wireless communications infrastructure including communications towers and telecommunications servers operative to create a communications network can be used to create communications network . Communications network may be capable of providing wireless communications using any suitable short range or long range communications protocol. In some embodiments communications network can support for example Wi Fi e.g. an 802.11 protocol Bluetooth registered trademark high frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communication systems infrared other relatively localized wireless communication protocol or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments communications network can support protocols used by wireless and cellular phones and personal email devices e.g. a Blackberry . Such protocols can include for example GSM GSM plus EDGE CDMA quadband and other cellular protocols. In another example a long range communications protocol can include Wi Fi and protocols for placing or receiving calls using VOIP or LAN. Portable electronic device and remote server when located within communications network can wirelessly communicate over a local wireless communication path such as path .

Portable electronic device and remote server can be any suitable device for sending and receiving communications. For example portable electronic device and remote server can include a media player such as an iPod available by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. a cellular telephone a personal e mail or messaging device e.g. a Blackberry or a Sidekick an iPhone available from Apple Inc. pocket sized personal computers such as an iPAQ Pocket PC available by Hewlett Packard Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. personal digital assistants PDAs a desktop computer a laptop computer and any other device capable of communicating wirelessly with or without the aid of a wireless enabling accessory system . The communications sent and received can be any suitable form of communications including for example voice communications e.g. telephonic communications data communications e.g. e mails text messages media messages or combinations of these.

In some embodiments portable electronic device or remote server can be coupled to host device for data transfers synching the portable electronic device software or firmware updates or performing any other suitable operation that may require portable electronic device and host device to be coupled. In some embodiments several portable electronic devices can be coupled to host to share data using host as a server. In some embodiments portable electronic device can be coupled to several host devices e.g. for each of the plurality of host devices to serve as a backup for data stored in portable electronic device .

Portable electronic device can be coupled with host device over communications link using any suitable approach. For example portable electronic device can use any suitable wireless communications protocol to connect to host device over communications link . As another example communications link may be a wired link that is coupled to both portable electronic device and host device . As still another example communications link can include a combination of wired and wireless links e.g. an accessory device for wirelessly communicating with portable electronic device is coupled by a wire to host device . Any suitable connector dongle or docking station may be used to couple portable electronic device and host device . A more detailed discussion of a dongle or docking station that can be plugged into portable electronic device may be found for example in Fadell et al. U.S. patent application publication No. 2004 0224638 filed Apr. 25 2003 entitled Media Player System which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The user may select an icon by placing highlight region over an icon. In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of an identification application the portable electronic device may activate an identification module such as identification module in fact highlight region in is shown to be highlighting an Identification Application .

In some embodiments display screen can include SETTINGS option . In response to the user selecting SETTINGS option the portable electronic device can provide configuration options to the user.

In some embodiments in response to the user selecting AUTO in listings the portable electronic device can automatically detect the current environment and select a detection technology that is well suited for the detected environment or the system may be configured to use the AUTO setting as a default . For example in response to detecting that the portable electronic device is being used in the dark the portable electronic device can activate an IR image capture device that is capable of detecting objects in darkness. As another example if the portable electronic device detects active RFID tags broadcasting signals to the RFID reader the portable electronic device can use the RFID reader to detect objects.

In some embodiments display screen can include listings which can allow the user to select a mode based on the types of objects that the user wants to identify. In some embodiments modes can be implemented as metadata tags that are associated with images of objects or RFID tags of objects. For example an image of an object can be tagged with both GLOBAL and ZOO modes. Depending on the selected mode the portable electronic device can adjust parameters that are used to search an identification database. The identification database may be located in local storage e.g. storage an external source e.g. remote server or any combination thereof. The identification database can include one or more image databases IR image databases photo libraries RFID identification databases or any other suitable type of identification databases.

In some embodiments the identification database can include images of labeled objects e.g. people animals buildings and other objects . For example in response to the user selecting MUSEUM mode by placing highlight region over listings the portable electronic device can limit the search to images of objects that are commonly found in a museum e.g. paintings sculptures and illustrations . As another example in response to the user selecting PEOPLE mode the portable electronic device can limit the search to images of people. As still another example in response to the user selecting GLOBAL mode in listings the portable electronic device can perform a search over the entire identification database in order to identify an object.

The portable electronic device can use one or more pattern recognition algorithms to compare the detected object with images in the identification database. For example suitable types of pattern recognition algorithms can include neural networks support vector machines decision trees K nearest neighbor Bayesian networks Monte Carlo methods bootstrapping methods boosting methods or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments if the user has selected to use RFID detection technology the portable electronic device can access a RFID identification database. The RFID identification database can include object names corresponding to particular RFID tags. For example RFID tag ID 04584 may correspond to the painting On the Terrace. 

In some embodiments display screen can include EDIT option which allows the user to edit modes listed in listings . In response to the user selecting EDIT option the user may add new modes or delete existing modes. In some embodiments in response to the user selecting EDIT option the portable electronic device can produce lists of objects that are currently associated with the various modes. The user may have the option to change these associations. For example after identifying an object in MUSEUM mode the user may decide that the object should also be associated with FLOWER mode. The user may select EDIT option in order to associate the object with both FLOWER and MUSEUM modes.

Referring back to in response to a user selecting GO option the portable electronic device can attempt to identify objects that are able to be detected. In some embodiments in addition to using the selected mode to assist in object identification the portable electronic device can use a GPS receiver RF triangulation detector or sensor or any other location circuitry configured to locate the user. For example the user may have taken a picture of a restaurant called Lou s Diner while in the RESTAURANT mode. In response to locating that the user is in Las Vegas Nev. the portable electronic device can limit the search of the identification database to Lou s Diner restaurants in Las Vegas.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can provide EDIT option to the user. In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of EDIT option the portable electronic device can allow the user to add or change the identity of an object.

In some embodiments if the portable electronic device finds multiple candidate identifications for an object the portable electronic device may list all of the multiple candidate identifications in display screen . The user may then choose the identity of the object among the candidates identifications or input a new identification.

In some embodiments if the portable electronic device finds multiple candidate identifications for an object the portable electronic device may list the candidate identification that the device believes is the best identification match for the object based on certain criteria. The user can be given the ability to directly modify the criteria and or the criteria may be self modifying based on user input. For example if the user agrees with the best identification match the user may select the best identification match as the identity of the object. However if the user disagrees with the best match the user may input a corrected identity for the object by selecting highlight region . In response to the correction the portable electronic device can use the user input as training data for future identifications.

In some embodiments the criteria can include support vector machines in which each support vector machine can be trained to identify a certain object. In response to the user input the support vector machines can be re trained based on an enlarged data set which includes the image of the object combined with the corrected identity. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that other self modifying criteria can be used without departing from the spirit of the present invention.

In some embodiments the user may select ADD option to add the identified object to the identification database. In some embodiments the user may select ADD option to change the mode association s of the identified object.

Returning to display screen the user may select a listing by placing highlight region over listings . In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of an object the portable electronic device can search and display information related to the object. In some embodiments the information acquired can have incrementally increasing levels of detail e.g. basic detailed and extended information .

The information can be located locally on the device itself e.g. storage on a local server on an external source e.g. a remote server connected to the internet or any combination of these. In some embodiments the information can be stored on an information database on the device the local server and or the external source. In some embodiments the information search can be performed based on the previously defined mode e.g. the selected mode in listings . For example if the user is in MUSEUM mode the search can be restricted to museum related information.

In some embodiments if the portable electronic device detects that it can not connect to an appropriate communications line to access remote information e.g. lacks WI FI connectivity the device can access information stored locally. For example when the user requests for information related to an identified object the portable electronic device can search for information that is locally stored on the device or on a local server.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can first download information from an external source before providing the relevant information to the user. For example when a user goes to a museum the user can plug the portable electronic device in to a suitable connector e.g. docking station . Once the device is connected information related to each of the exhibits in the museum can be downloaded and stored locally on the portable electronic device. The user can then use the portable electronic device to identify pieces of art in the museum. When the portable electronic device identifies that the user is viewing a Monet painting for example the device can provide information that has been downloaded about the Monet exhibit.

In some embodiments display screen may include basic information region . For example in response to a user selecting a painting in listings in MUSEUM mode the portable electronic device can display an image of the painting in media screen . In addition the portable electronic device can provide the name date and artist of the painting in information region . As another example in response to a user selecting a restaurant in listings in RESTAURANT mode the portable electronic device can display an image of the front of the restaurant in media screen . In addition the portable electronic device can provide selectable options to the user which can include contact information e.g. phone number and website and location information of the restaurant. In some embodiments in response to the user selecting a DIAL option the portable electronic device can allow the user to call the restaurant. In some embodiments in response to the user selecting a LOCATE option the portable electronic device can locate the restaurant on a map application e.g. Google Maps .

The user may select a listing by placing highlight region over a listing. In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of a listing the portable electronic device may access the detailed information and provide the detailed information to the user.

The user may select description region to find additional detailed information about the media displayed in media screen . In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of description region the portable electronic device can display additional detailed information related to the media displayed in media screen .

Returning to display screen the user may select EXTENDED INFORMATION option to view extended information about the identified object. In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of EXTENDED INFORMATION option the portable electronic device can display extended information about the object.

In some embodiments the user may select a link within links to access a webpage located on a server connected to the Internet. In some embodiments in response to the user selecting a link the portable electronic device can display the webpage on a web browser such as Safari available from Apple Inc. .

Returning to display screen the user may select to view a log which may include a history of identified objects. In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of LOG option the portable electronic device may display a log of identified objects.

The user may select a listing by placing highlight region over listings . In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of a listing in listings the portable electronic device can search and display information related to the identified object. For example the user can be taken to a display screen similar to or the same as display screen where the user may request display of information with incrementally increasing levels of detail.

In some embodiments displays screen can include CUSTOMIZE option . For example in response to the user selecting CUSTOMIZE option the portable electronic device can delete objects in the log that have not been accessed for a period of time e.g. one year . The user can be provided with the opportunity to set the operational characteristics of the log in a Preferences or System Settings option instead which may be accessed from the home page such as the Settings icon shown in .

In some embodiments the user may select CUSTOMIZE option to archive certain objects before the objects are deleted. In some embodiments the user may select CUSTOMIZE option to automatically archive the objects that are deleted from the log. In some embodiments instead of displaying the identified objects in the log by date the user may select CUSTOMIZE option to sort the identified objects based on previously defined modes.

In some embodiments the user may select CUSTOMIZE option to create a multi media album that includes objects that were identified in a previously defined mode or modes. For example the user may have used the portable electronic device to identify objects in the MUSEUM mode on a few museum visits. As a result the user can create a multi media album by collecting all of the identified objects in the MUSEUM mode. The user may let his friend borrow the portable electronic device or upload the multi media album to his friend s portable electronic device. After receiving the multi media album the friend may then create a self guided tour that organizes the pieces of art in a desired order.

By selecting a particular piece of art the friend may see basic information such as the title of the art the date and the artist. The friend may find additional information about the art by requesting a search of detailed and extended information. It will be understood that although the previous discussion involved certain customizable features other suitable customizable features can also be implemented in the present invention.

If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to select a new detection technology has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to select a new detection technology has been received process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can select the new detection technology based on user instructions. For example the user may manually select a detection technology e.g. CAMERA RFID or IR CAMERA . The user may also select AUTO in listings so that the portable electronic device can automatically determine the current environment of the portable electronic device. In response to determining the current environment the portable electronic device can select to use a detection technology that is well suited for the environment. The user may save the changes by selecting BACK option . Process then moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to select a new mode has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected SETTINGS option and a new mode in listings . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to select a new mode has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to select a new mode has been received process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can change the mode to the selected mode. The user may save the changes by selecting BACK option . Process the moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to identify an object has been received. If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to identify an object has been received process moves to step . For example the user may select to identify an object by selecting GO option . At step the portable electronic device can detect and or identify the object. In response to the user selecting GO option the portable electronic device can detect the object using the detection technology. After detecting the object the portable electronic device can search an identification database to attempt to identify the detected object based on the selected mode.

At step the portable electronic device can display the detected and or identified object. For example the portable electronic device can direct the user to a display screen such as display screen which includes listings . The portable electronic device can display the detected and or identified object in listings .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether the object was correctly identified. If at step the portable electronic device determines that the object was correctly identified process moves to step .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that the object was incorrectly identified process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can correct the object s identity. For example in response to the user selecting EDIT option the user can be directed to a display screen such as display screen which includes highlight region . The user can select highlight region to change the object s identity. After correcting the object s identity process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can store the identified object in the identification database. For example the user can store the identified object in the database by selecting ADD option .

After the portable electronic device finishes storing the identified object process then moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can search for basic information related to the identified object. For example in response to the user selecting an identified object in listings the portable electronic device can search for basic information that can provide pertinent information about the object. At step the portable electronic device can provide the basic information to the user. For example the user can be directed to a display screen such as display screen which can include media screen . In some embodiments display screen can include basic information region .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether it has received an instruction to search for detailed information. For example the user may select basic information region to request detailed information which can provide additional information related to the object. If at step the portable electronic device determines that it has received instruction to search for detailed information process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can search for detailed information related to the identified object. After the portable electronic device has searched for detailed information process then moves back to step . At step the portable electronic device can provide the detailed information to the user. For example the portable electronic device may direct the user to a display screen such as display screen which includes listings . The user may select a listing in listings to access detailed information related to the identified object. An example of detailed information is provided in display screen .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that it has not received an instruction to search for detailed information process then moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can determine whether it has received an instruction to search for extended information. For example the user may select EXTENDED INFORMATION option to request extended information. Extended information can include links that are considered relevant to the object.

If at step the portable electronic device determines that it has not received an instruction to search for extended information process moves back to step where the portable electronic device can continue to receive user instructions. For example the user may have selected BACK options in in order to return to display screen . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that it has received an instruction to search for extended information process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can search for extended information related to the identified object. After the portable electronic device has searched for the extended information process moves back to step . At step the portable electronic device can provide the extended information to the user. For example the portable electronic device may direct the user to a display screen such as display screen which includes listings . The user may select a listing in listings to access extended information related to the identified object.

Referring back to if at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to identify an object has not been received process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device may determine whether it has received an instruction to provide a log. For example the user may select LOG option to request a history of identified objects. If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to provide a log has not been received process ends at step .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to provide a log has been received process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device may provide a log of the identified objects to the user. For example the portable electronic device may direct the user to a display screen such as display screen which includes listings of identified objects.

At step the portable electronic device can determine if it has received a selection of an identified object in the log. For example the user may select an identified object in listings by placing highlight region over a listing. If the portable electronic device determines that it has received a selection of an identified object process returns to step as discussed previously. If the portable electronic device determines that it has not received a selection of an identified object process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can determine if it has received a selection of a customized option. For example the user may select CUSTOMIZE option to customize the log.

If at step the portable electronic device determines that it has not received a selection of a customized option process moves back to step as discussed previously. For example the user may select BACK option to return to display screen . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that it has received a selection of a customized option process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can determine whether it has received an instruction to archive certain identified objects.

If at step the portable electronic device determines that it has not received an instruction to archive certain identified objects process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that it has received an instruction to archive certain identified objects process moves to step . At step in response to receiving the instruction the portable electronic device can allow the user to archive those objects. After archiving the objects process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether it has received an instruction to delete identified objects if the objects have not been accessed for period of time. If at step the portable electronic device determines that it has not received an instruction to delete identified objects process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that it has received an instruction to delete identified objects process moves to step . At step in response to receiving the instruction the portable electronic device can monitor the deletion of identified objects if the objects have not been accessed for a period of time. After the portable electronic device has been configured to monitor the deletion of these objects process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether it has received an instruction to sort the identified objects based on previously defined modes. If at step the portable electronic device determines that it has not received an instruction to sort the identified objects process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that it has received an instruction to sort the identified objects process moves to step . At step in response to receiving the instruction the portable electronic device can allow the user to sort the identified objects in the log based on the previously defined modes. After sorting the identified objects process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether it has received an instruction to create a multi media album that includes objects that were identified in a previously defined mode or modes. If at step the portable electronic device determines that it has not received an instruction to create a multi media album process moves back to step to provide the log to the user . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that it has received an instruction to create a multi media album process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can allow the user to create a multi media album. After the user has created the multi media album process moves back to step .

Thus it is seen that systems and methods are provided for identifying objects and obtaining additional information about the identified objects. It is also seen that systems and methods are provided for viewing a history of previously identified objects. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention can be practiced by other than the described embodiments which are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation and the present invention is limited only by the claims which follow.

