---

title: Three-dimensional microstructure having a first dielectric element and a second multi-layer metal element configured to define a non-solid volume
abstract: Provided are three-dimensional microstructures and their methods of formation. The microstructures are formed by a sequential build process and include microstructural elements which are affixed to one another. The microstructures find use, for example, in coaxial transmission lines for electromagnetic energy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09515364&OS=09515364&RS=09515364
owner: Nuvotronics, Inc.
number: 09515364
owner_city: Radford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141208
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 219 736 filed Aug. 29 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 608 870 filed Oct. 29 2009 which claims the benefit of priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 005 936 filed Dec. 28 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 656 256 which claims the benefit of priority of Provisional Application No. 60 878 278 filed Dec. 30 2006. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 608 870 also claims the benefit of priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 005 885 filed Dec. 28 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 649 432 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 878 319 filed Dec. 30 2006. Additionally U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 608 870 claims the benefit of priority of Provisional Application No. 61 109 251 filed Oct. 29 2008. The entire contents of all recited U.S. Patents and Patent Applications are herein incorporated by reference.

This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of Provisional Application No. 60 878 278 filed Dec. 30 2006 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Agreement No. W911QX 04 C 0097 awarded by DARPA. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to microfabrication technology and to the formation of three dimensional microstructures. The invention has particular applicability to microstructures for transmitting electromagnetic energy such as coaxial transmission element microstructures and to methods of forming such microstructures by a sequential build process.

The formation of three dimensional microstructures by sequential build processes have been described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 012 489 to Sherrer et al. With reference to the 489 patent discloses a coaxial transmission line microstructure formed by a sequential build process. The microstructure is formed on a substrate and includes an outer conductor a center conductor and one or more dielectric support members which support the center conductor. The outer conductor includes a conductive base layer forming a lower wall conductive layers and forming sidewalls and conductive layer forming an upper wall of the outer conductor. The volume between the inner and outer conductors is air or vacuous formed by removal of a sacrificial material from the structure which previously filled such volume.

When fabricating microstructures of different materials for example suspended microstructures such as the center conductor in the microstructure of the 489 patent problems can arise due to insufficient adhesion between structural elements particularly when the elements are formed of different materials. For example materials useful in forming the dielectric support members may exhibit poor adhesion to the metal materials of the outer conductor and center conductor. As a result of this poor adhesion the dielectric support members can become detached from either or both of the outer and center conductors this notwithstanding the dielectric support member being embedded at one end in the outer conductor sidewall. Such detachment can prove particularly problematic when the device is subjected to vibration or other forces in manufacture and post manufacture during normal operation of the device. The device may for example be subjected to extreme forces if used in a high velocity vehicle such as an aircraft. As a result of such detachment the transmission performance of the coaxial structure may become degraded and the device may be rendered inoperable.

There is thus a need in the art for improved three dimensional microstructures and for their methods of formation which would address problems associated with the state of the art.

In accordance with a first aspect of the invention provided are three dimensional microstructures formed by a sequential build process. The microstructures include a first microstructural element constructed of a dielectric material and having an aperture extending at least partially therethrough a second microstructural element constructed of a metal material a metal material in the aperture affixing the first microstructural element to the second microstructural element and a non solid volume to which the first microstructural element and or the second microstructural element are exposed. The microstructure may include a substrate over which the first and second microstructural elements are disposed. In one embodiment of the invention the microstructure may include a coaxial transmission line having a center conductor an outer conductor and a dielectric support member for supporting the center conductor the dielectric support member being the first microstructural element and the inner conductor and or the outer conductor being the second microstructural element.

In accordance with a second aspect of the invention provided are methods of forming three dimensional microstructures by a sequential build process. The methods involve disposing a plurality of layers over a substrate. The layers include a layer of a dielectric material a layer of a metal material and a layer of a sacrificial material. A first microstructural element constructed of the dielectric material and having an aperture extending at least partially therethrough is formed. A second microstructural element constructed of the metal material is formed. A metal material is deposited in the aperture affixing the first microstructural element to the second microstructural element. The sacrificial material is removed to form a non solid volume to which the first microstructural element and or the second microstructural element are exposed.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to one skilled in the art upon review of the following description claims and drawings appended hereto.

The exemplary processes to be described involve a sequential build to create three dimensional microstructures. The term microstructure refers to structures formed by microfabrication processes typically on a wafer or grid level. In the sequential build processes of the invention a microstructure is formed by sequentially layering and processing various materials and in a predetermined manner. When implemented for example with film formation lithographic patterning etching and other optional processes such as planarization techniques a flexible method to form a variety of three dimensional microstructures is provided.

The sequential build process is generally accomplished through processes including various combinations of a metal sacrificial material e.g. photoresist and dielectric coating processes b surface planarization c photolithography and d etching or other layer removal processes. In depositing metal plating techniques are particularly useful although other metal deposition techniques such as physical vapor deposition PVD and chemical vapor deposition CVD techniques may be used.

The exemplary embodiments of the invention are described herein in the context of the manufacture of a coaxial transmission line for electromagnetic energy. Such a structure finds application for example in the telecommunications industry in radar systems and in microwave and millimeter wave devices. It should be clear however that the technology described for creating microstructures is in no way limited to the exemplary structures or applications but may be used in numerous fields for microdevices such as in pressure sensors rollover sensors mass spectrometers filters microfluidic devices surgical instruments blood pressure sensors air flow sensors hearing aid sensors image stabilizers altitude sensors and autofocus sensors. The invention can be used as a general method to mechanically lock together heterogeneous materials that are microfabricated together to form new components. The exemplified coaxial transmission line microstructures are useful for propagation of electromagnetic energy having a frequency for example of from several MHz to 100 GHz or more including millimeter waves and microwaves. The described transmission lines find further use in the transmission of direct current dc signals and currents for example in providing a bias to integrated or attached semiconductor devices.

Exemplary methods of forming the coaxial transmission line microstructure of will now be described with reference to . The transmission line is formed on a substrate as shown in which may take various forms. The substrate may for example be constructed of a ceramic a dielectric a semiconductor such as silicon or gallium arsenide a metal such as copper or steel a polymer or a combination thereof. The substrate can take the form for example of an electronic substrate such as a printed wiring board or a semiconductor substrate such as a silicon silicon germanium or gallium arsenide wafer. The substrate may be selected to have an expansion coefficient similar to the materials used in forming the transmission line and should be selected so as to maintain its integrity during formation of the transmission line. The surface of the substrate on which the transmission line is to be formed is typically planar. The substrate surface may for example be ground lapped and or polished to achieve a high degree of planarity. Planarization of the surface of the structure being formed can be performed before or after formation of any of the layers during the process. Conventional planarization techniques for example chemical mechanical polishing CMP lapping or a combination of these methods are typically used. Other known planarization techniques for example mechanical finishing such as mechanical machining diamond turning plasma etching laser ablation and the like may additionally or alternatively be used.

A first layer of a sacrificial photosensitive material for example a photoresist is deposited over the substrate and is exposed and developed to form a pattern for subsequent deposition of the bottom wall of the transmission line outer conductor. The pattern includes a channel in the sacrificial material exposing the top surface of the substrate . Conventional photolithography steps and materials can be used for this purpose. The sacrificial photosensitive material can be for example a negative photoresist such as Shipley BPR 100 or P SN commercially available from Rohm and Haas Electronic Materials LLC those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 054 252 to Lundy et al or a dry film such as the L dry films also available from Rohm and Haas. The thickness of the sacrificial photosensitive material layers in this and other steps will depend on the dimensions of the structures being fabricated but are typically from 10 to 200 microns.

As shown in a conductive base layer is formed over the substrate and forms a bottom wall of the outer conductor in the final structure. The base layer may be formed of a material having high conductivity such as a metal or metal alloy collectively referred to as metal for example copper silver nickel aluminum chromium gold titanium alloys thereof a doped semiconductor material or combinations thereof for example multiple layers of such materials. The base layer may be deposited by a conventional process for example by plating such as electrolytic or electroless or immersion plating physical vapor deposition PVD such as sputtering or evaporation or chemical vapor deposition CVD . Plated copper may for example be particularly suitable as the base layer material with such techniques being well understood in the art. The plating can be for example an electroless process using a copper salt and a reducing agent. Suitable materials are commercially available and include for example C electroless copper available from Rohm and Haas Electronic Materials LLC Marlborough Mass. Alternatively the material can be plated by coating an electrically conductive seed layer followed by electrolytic plating. The seed layer may be deposited by PVD over the substrate prior to coating of the sacrificial material . Suitable electrolytic materials are commercially available and include for example CG acid plating products available from Rohm and Haas Electronic Materials. The use of an activated catalyst followed by electroless and or electrolytic deposition may be used. The base layer and subsequent layers may be patterned into arbitrary geometries to realize a desired device structure through the methods outlined.

The thickness of the base layer and the subsequently formed other walls of the outer conductor is selected to provide mechanical stability to the microstructure and to provide sufficient conductivity for the electrons moving through the transmission line. At microwave frequencies and beyond structural and thermal conductivity influences become more pronounced as the skin depth will typically be less than 1 m. The thickness thus will depend for example on the specific base layer material the particular frequency to be propagated and the intended application. For example in instances in which the final structure is to be removed from the substrate it may be beneficial to employ a relatively thick base layer for example from about 20 to 150 m or from 20 to 80 m for structural integrity. Where the final structure is to remain intact with the substrate it may be desired to employ a relatively thin base layer which may be determined by the skin depth requirements of the frequencies used.

Appropriate materials and techniques for forming the sidewalls are the same as those mentioned above with respect to the base layer. The sidewalls are typically formed of the same material used in forming the base layer although different materials may be employed. In the case of a plating process the application of a seed layer or plating base may be omitted as here when metal in a subsequent step will only be applied directly over a previously formed exposed metal region. It should be clear however that the exemplified structures shown in the figures typically make up only a small area of a particular device and metallization of these and other structures may be started on any layer in the process sequence in which case seed layers are typically used.

Surface planarization at this stage and or in subsequent stages can be performed in order to remove any unwanted metal deposited on the top surface of the sacrificial material in addition to providing a flat surface for subsequent processing. Through surface planarization the total thickness of a given layer can be controlled more tightly than might otherwise be achieved through coating alone. For example a CMP process can be used to planarize the metal and the sacrificial material to the same level. This may be followed for example by a lapping process which slowly removes metal sacrificial material and any dielectric at the same rate allowing for greater control of the final thickness of the layer.

With reference to a second layer of the sacrificial photosensitive material is deposited over the base layer and first sacrificial layer and is exposed and developed to form a pattern for subsequent deposition of lower sidewall portions of the transmission line outer conductor. The pattern includes two parallel channels in the sacrificial material exposing the top surface of the base layer.

As shown in lower sidewall portions of the transmission line outer conductor are next formed. Appropriate materials and techniques for forming the sidewalls are the same as those mentioned above with respect to the base layer although different materials may be employed. In the case of a plating process the application of a seed layer or plating base may be omitted as here when metal in a subsequent step will only be applied directly over a previously formed exposed metal region. Surface planarization as described above may be conducted at this stage.

A layer of a dielectric material is next deposited over the second sacrificial layer and the lower sidewall portions as shown in . In subsequent processing support structures are patterned from the dielectric layer to support the transmission line s center conductor to be formed. As these support structures will lie in the core region of the final transmission line structure the support layer should be formed from a material which will not create excessive losses for the signals to be transmitted through the transmission line. The material should also be capable of providing the mechanical strength necessary to support the center conductor and should be relatively insoluble in the solvent used to remove the sacrificial material from the final transmission line structure. The material is typically a dielectric material selected from photosensitive benzocyclobutene Photo BCB resins such as those sold under the tradename CYCLOTENE Dow Chemical Co. SU 8 resist MicroChem Corp. inorganic materials such as silicas and silicon oxides SOL gels various glasses silicon nitride SiN aluminum oxides such as alumina AlO aluminum nitride AlN and magnesium oxide MgO organic materials such as polyethylene polyester polycarbonate cellulose acetate polypropylene polyvinyl chloride polyvinylidene chloride polystyrene polyamide and polyimide organic inorganic hybrid materials such as organic silsesquioxane materials a photodefinable dielectric such as a negative acting photoresist or photoepoxy which is not attacked by the sacrificial material removal process to be conducted. Of these SU 8 2015 resist is typical. It is advantageous to use materials which can be easily deposited for example by spin coating roller coating squeegee coating spray coating chemical vapor deposition CVD or lamination. The support layer is deposited to a thickness that provides for the requisite support of the center conductor without cracking or breakage. In addition the thickness should not severely impact subsequent application of sacrificial material layers from the standpoint of planarity. While the thickness of the dielectric support layer will depend on the dimensions and materials of the other elements of the microstructure the thickness is typically from 1 to 100 microns for example about 20 microns.

Referring to the dielectric material layer of is next patterned using standard photolithography and etching techniques to provide one or more dielectric support members for supporting the center conductor to be formed. In the illustrated device the dielectric support members extend from a first side of the outer conductor to an opposite side of the center conductor. In another exemplary aspect the dielectric support members may extend from the outer conductor and terminate at the center conductor. In this case one end of each of the support members is formed over one or the other lower sidewall portion and the opposite end extends to a position over the sacrificial layer between the lower sidewall portions. The support members are spaced apart from one another typically at a fixed distance. The number shape and pattern of arrangement of the dielectric support members should be sufficient to provide support to the center conductor and its terminations while also preventing excessive signal loss and dispersion. In addition the shape and periodicity or aperiodicity may be selected to prevent reflections at frequencies where low loss propagation is desired as can be calculated using methods know in the art of creating Bragg gratings and filters unless such function is desired. In the latter case careful design of such periodic structures can provide filtering functions.

During patterning of the dielectric support members one or more apertures are formed therein. The apertures typically extend through the dielectric support members as illustrated from a top surface to a bottom surface thereof. The apertures serve the purpose of providing a volume for receipt of a metal material which is adherent to and may be considered part of the center conductor and or outer conductor. Contact area between the dielectric members and the center and or outer conductors through the metal material filling the apertures is thereby increased as compared with the case in which no aperture is present. As a result the dielectric support members can be more effectively locked in place with respect to the center and or outer conductors. In the illustrated embodiment apertures are shown in the dielectric support member at the center and at one end. Other configurations may be used. For example it may be beneficial to include an aperture at each end of the support member.

The apertures as illustrated are cylindrical in geometry. Other geometries may of course be used for example those having square rectangular triangular and ovular cross sections. The aperture sidewalls may be vertical or non vertical. Exemplary aperture structures are illustrated in . shows an aperture such as illustrated in which has vertical sidewalls and is cylindrical in geometry. It may be desired that the aperture have non vertical sidewalls for example a reentrant profile such as illustrated in . Such structures are believed to provide a further strengthened joint between the elements of the completed microstructure as they mechanically lock in place the metal to be deposited in the aperture. This minimizes or prevents slippage of the metal filling the aperture. Such structures can also be created by using more than one layer for example layers as shown in .

With reference to a third sacrificial photosensitive layer is coated over the substrate and is exposed and developed to form patterns and for subsequent filling of apertures and formation of middle sidewall portions of the transmission line outer conductor and the center conductor. The pattern for the middle sidewall portion includes two channels coextensive with the two lower sidewall portions . The lower sidewall portions and the end of the dielectric support members overlying the lower sidewall portions are exposed by pattern . The pattern for the center conductor is a channel parallel to and between the two middle sidewall patterns exposing the opposite ends of and supporting portions of the conductor support members . Conventional photolithography techniques and materials such as those described above can be used for this purpose.

As illustrated in the apertures are filled and the center conductor and middle sidewall portions of the outer conductor are formed by depositing a suitable metal material into the channels formed in the sacrificial material . The apertures may be filled in the same process and using the same material used in forming the middle sidewall portions and the center conductor. Optionally the apertures may be filled in a separate process using the same or different materials used for the center conductor and middle sidewall portions. The metal material filling the apertures forms a joint between the dielectric support member and each of the center conductor and outer conductor for affixing the microstructural elements to one another. Appropriate materials and techniques for filling the apertures and for forming the middle sidewall portions and center conductor are the same as those mentioned above with respect to the base layer and lower sidewall portions although different materials and or techniques may be employed. Surface planarization may optionally be performed at this stage to remove any unwanted metal deposited on the top surface of the sacrificial material in addition to providing a flat surface for subsequent processing as has been previously described and optionally applied at any stage.

In the event a plating process is used to fill the apertures one or more plating seed layers serving as a base and adhesion layer may be formed over the bottom and or side surfaces of the apertures. The seed layer may be applied at various points in the process. For example a seed layer may be applied over the structure of prior to coating of the dielectric support layer shown in . Following patterning of the apertures the seed layer would remain on the bottom surface of the apertures. Additionally or alternatively a plating seed layer may be formed over the structure following patterning of the dielectric support members. An exemplary structure employing a plurality of seed layers with reentrant shaped apertures is illustrated in . A first seed layer is disposed over the sacrificial material layer and outer conductor lower sidewall portions and below the dielectric support member . A second seed layer is disposed on the side upper and internal aperture sidewall surfaces of the dielectric support member the aperture bottom surface and other exposed regions of the first seed layer. This provides a structure in which the dielectric support members are sandwiched between the first and second seed layers which are embedded in the outer conductor. In addition to allowing for metal plating of the apertures in the dielectric support member use of a plurality of seed layers in this manner helps to lock in place the dielectric support members with respect to the other microstructural elements.

The seed layers are ideally conformal and continuous layers on the coated surfaces but are not necessarily so in practice. While a non continuous seed layer may lead to metal voids in the apertures the presence of such voids will not take away from the overall objective of the metallized apertures so long as a sufficient amount of metal is present in the apertures. The particular seed layer materials selected will depend for example on the metal material selected for filling of the apertures. Exemplary seed layer materials include for example gold silver palladium nickel chromium aluminum and combinations thereof. Of these stacks of aluminum nickel and chromium gold are typical. The seed layer s are typically deposited to a thickness of from 1000 to 3000 .

With reference to a fourth sacrificial material layer is deposited over the substrate and is exposed and developed to form pattern for subsequent deposition of upper sidewall portions of the outer conductor. The pattern for the upper sidewall portion includes two channels coextensive with and exposing the two middle sidewall portions . Conventional photolithography steps and materials as described above can be used for this purpose.

As illustrated in upper sidewall portions of the outer conductor are next formed by depositing a suitable material into the channels formed in the fourth sacrificial layer . Appropriate materials and techniques for forming the upper sidewalls are the same as those mentioned above with respect to the base layer and other sidewall portions. The upper sidewalls portions are typically formed with the same materials and techniques used in forming the base layer and other sidewalls although different materials and or techniques may be employed. Surface planarization can optionally be performed at this stage to remove any unwanted metal deposited on the top surface of the sacrificial material in addition to providing a flat surface for subsequent processing.

With reference to a fifth photosensitive sacrificial layer is deposited over the substrate and is exposed and developed to form pattern for subsequent deposition of the top wall of the transmission line outer conductor. The pattern for the top wall exposes the upper sidewall portions and the fourth sacrificial material layer therebetween. In patterning the sacrificial layer it may be desirable to leave one or more regions of the sacrificial material in the area between the upper sidewall portions. In these regions metal deposition is prevented during subsequent formation of the outer conductor top wall. As described below this will results in openings in the outer conductor top wall facilitating removal of the sacrificial material from the microstructure. These remaining portions of the sacrificial material can for example be in the form of cylinders polyhedrons such as tetrahedrons or other shaped pillars .

As shown in the top wall of the outer conductor is next formed by depositing a suitable material into the exposed region over and between the upper sidewall portions . Metallization is prevented in the volume occupied by the sacrificial material pillars . The top wall is typically formed with the same materials and techniques used in forming the base layer and other sidewalls although different materials and or techniques may be employed. Surface planarization can optionally be performed at this stage.

With the basic structure of the transmission line being complete additional layers may be added or the sacrificial material remaining in the structure may next be removed. The sacrificial material may be removed by known strippers based on the type of material used. In order for the material to be removed from the microstructure the stripper is brought into contact with the sacrificial material. The sacrificial material may be exposed at the end faces of the transmission line structure. Additional openings in the transmission line such as described above may be provided to facilitate contact between the stripper and sacrificial material throughout the structure. Other structures for allowing contact between the sacrificial material and stripper are envisioned. For example openings can be formed in the transmission line sidewalls during the patterning process. The dimensions of these openings may be selected to minimize interference with scattering or leakage of the guided wave. The dimensions can for example be selected to be less than 1 10 or 1 20 of the wavelength of the highest frequency used. The impact of such openings can readily be calculated and can be optimized using software such as HFSS made by Ansoft Inc.

The final transmission line structure after removal of the sacrificial resist is shown in . The space previously occupied by the sacrificial material in and within the outer walls of the transmission line forms apertures in the outer conductor and the transmission line core . The core volume is typically occupied by a gas such as air. It is envisioned that a gas having better dielectric properties may be used in the core. Optionally a vacuum can be created in the core for example when the structure forms part of a hermetic package. As a result a reduction in absorption from water vapor that would otherwise adsorb to the surfaces of the transmission lines can be realized. It is further envisioned that a liquid can occupy the volume between the center conductor and outer conductor as shown in .

For certain applications it may be beneficial to remove the final transmission line structure from the substrate to which it is attached. This would allow for coupling on both sides of the released interconnect network to another substrate for example a gallium arsenide die such as a monolithic microwave integrated circuit or other devices. Release of the structure from the substrate may be accomplished by various techniques for example by use of a sacrificial layer between the substrate and the base layer which can be removed upon completion of the structure in a suitable solvent. Suitable materials for the sacrificial layer include for example photoresists selectively etchable metals high temperature waxes and various salts.

While the exemplified transmission lines include a center conductor formed over the dielectric support members with metallized apertures it is envisioned that the dielectric support members with metallized apertures can be formed over the center conductor in addition or as an alternative to the underlying dielectric support members as illustrated in which show non reentrant and reentrant metallized apertures respectively. In addition the dielectric support members may be disposed within the center conductor such as in a split center conductor using a variety of geometries for example a plus shape a T shape a box or the geometries shown in .

The transmission lines of the invention typically are square in cross section. Other shapes however are envisioned. For example other rectangular transmission lines can be obtained in the same manner the square transmission lines are formed except making the width and height of the transmission lines different. Rounded transmission lines for example circular or partially rounded transmission lines can be formed by use of gray scale patterning. Such rounded transmission lines can for example be created through conventional lithography for vertical transitions and might be used to more readily interface with external micro coaxial conductors to make connector interfaces etc. A plurality of transmission lines as described above may be formed in a stacked arrangement. The stacked arrangement can be achieved by continuation of the sequential build process through each stack or by preforming the transmission lines on individual substrates separating transmission line structures from their respective substrates using a release layer and stacking the structures. Such stacked structures can be joined by thin layers of solders or conductive adhesives. In theory there is not a limit on the number of transmission lines that can be stacked using the process steps discussed herein. In practice however the number of layers will be limited by the ability to manage the thicknesses and stresses and resist removal associated with each additional layer.

While the three dimensional microstructures and their methods of formation have been described with reference to the exemplified transmission lines it should be clear that the microstructures and methods are broadly applicable to a wide array of technical fields which can benefit from the use of micromachining processes for affixing a metal microstructural element to a dielectric microstructural element. The microstructures and methods of the invention find use for example in the following industries telecommunications in microwave and millimeter wave filters and couplers aerospace and military in radar and collision avoidance systems and communications systems automotive in pressure and rollover sensors chemistry in mass spectrometers and filters biotechnology and biomedical in filters microfluidic devices surgical instruments and blood pressure air flow and hearing aid sensors and consumer electronics in image stabilizers altitude sensors and autofocus sensors.

While the invention has been described in detail with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made and equivalents employed without departing from the scope of the claims.

