---

title: Pyrrolopyridine inhibitors of kinases
abstract: 

wherein R, R, R, X, and Y are defined in the description. The present invention relates also to compositions containing said compounds which are useful for inhibiting kinases such as Cdc7 and methods of treating diseases such as cancer.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09181246&OS=09181246&RS=09181246
owner: AbbVie Inc.
number: 09181246
owner_city: North Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140728
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 086 546 filed Apr. 14 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 325 591 filed Apr. 19 2010 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Eukaryotic cells divide by a directed step wise process referred to as the cell cycle. Cells must first replicate their DNA in S phase before separating their sister chromatids in mitosis karyokinesis and splitting off into two daughter cells cytokinesis . In mammalian cells DNA replication must be initiated at multiple sites replication origins throughout the genome to ensure that all the genetic material is duplicated prior to mitosis. To maintain genome integrity DNA must be replicated only once per cell cycle and so this process is highly regulated and governed by checkpoints. Before replication is initiated origins must be licensed through the formation of pre replication complexes pre RCs in early G1. Formation of pre RCs involves the step wise binding of the origin recognition complex ORC to origins followed by the binding of the loading factors Cdc6 and Cdt1. These proteins then recruit the putative DNA replicative helicase complex MCM2 7. Once this pre RC is formed replication initiation requires the activation of S phase promoting serine threonine kinases Cyclin Cdks and Cdc7 Dbf4. These kinases consist of an enzymatic subunit CDKs and Cdc7 and a regulatory sub unit Cyclins for CDKs Dbf4 or Drf1 for Cdc7 . They phosphorylate multiple MCMs in pre RCs in a sequential manner thereby activating the helicase and recruiting other DNA replication factors Cdc45 GINS complex etc. for DNA synthesis for reviews see Kim et al. 2003 Kim et al. 2004 Lau et al. 2006 Lau et al. 2007 Stillman 2005 . MCM2 Serine 40 and Serine 53 are well characterized phosphorylation sites for Cdc7 Dbf4 Cho et al. 2006 Montagnoli et al. 2006 Tsuji et al. 2006 .

Inhibiting regulators of replication initiation such as Cdc6 Cdc7 Dbf4 or Cdc7 Drf1 has lethal consequences in cancerous cells whereas normal cells are able to arrest and resume normal divisions once initiation activity is restored Feng et al. 2003 Montagnoli et al. 2004 see Lau and Jiang 2006 for review . Small molecule inhibitors of the protein kinase Cdc7 are thus attractive candidates for therapeutic intervention in cancer inflammation and other cell proliferative disorders.

The present invention has numerous embodiments. One embodiment of this invention therefore pertains to compounds that have formula I 

Also provided are pharmaceutically acceptable compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I a pharmaceutically acceptable salt in combination with a pharmaceutically suitable carrier.

One embodiment is directed to a method of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of formula I . In yet another embodiment pertains to a method of decreasing tumor volume in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of formula I .

This detailed description is intended only to acquaint others skilled in the art with Applicants invention its principles and its practical application so that others skilled in the art may adapt and apply the invention in its numerous forms as they may be best suited to the requirements of a particular use. This description and its specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only. This invention therefore is not limited to the embodiments described in this patent application and may be variously modified.

Unless otherwise defined herein scientific and technical terms used in connection with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The meaning and scope of the terms should be clear however in the event of any latent ambiguity definitions provided herein take precedent over any dictionary or extrinsic definition. In this application the use of or means and or unless stated otherwise. Furthermore the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included is not limiting. With reference to the use of the words comprise or comprises or comprising in this patent application including the claims Applicants note that unless the context requires otherwise those words are used on the basis and clear understanding that they are to be interpreted inclusively rather than exclusively and that Applicants intend each of those words to be so interpreted in construing this patent application including the claims below. For a variable that occurs more than one time in any substituent or in the compound of the invention or any other formulae herein its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Combinations of substituents are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Stable compounds are compounds which can be isolated in a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture.

It is meant to be understood that proper valences are maintained for all combinations herein that monovalent moieties having more than one atom are attached through their left ends and that divalent moieties are drawn from left to right.

As used in the specification and the appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

The term alkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent typically containing from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl iso amyl and hexyl and the like.

The term alkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more double bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethenyl vinyl 2 propenyl 3 propenyl 1 4 pentadienyl 1 4 butadienyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 butenyl and the like.

The term alkynyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more triple bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethynyl 2 propynyl 3 propynyl 2 butynyl and 3 butynyl and the like.

The term carbocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkyl partially saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. aryl hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms ring atoms are the atoms bound together to form the ring or rings of a cyclic substituent . A carbocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure.

A carbocyclyl may be a single ring structure which typically contains from 3 to 8 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of such single ring carbocyclyls include cyclopropyl cyclopropanyl cyclobutyl cyclobutanyl cyclopentyl cyclopentanyl cyclopentenyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexyl cyclohexanyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl and phenyl. A carbocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic carbocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls. In a spirocyclic carbocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. An example of a spirocyclic carbocyclyl is spiropentanyl. In a bridged carbocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. Examples of bridged carbocyclyls include bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 enyl and adamantanyl. In a fused ring carbocyclyl system two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of two or three fused ring carbocyclyls include naphthalenyl tetrahydronaphthalenyl tetralinyl indenyl indanyl dihydroindenyl anthracenyl phenanthrenyl and decalinyl.

The term cycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms. A cycloalkyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms and more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. A cycloalkyl may alternatively be polycyclic or contain more than one ring. Examples of polycyclic cycloalkyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls.

The term aryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic carbocyclyl containing from 6 to 14 carbon ring atoms. Examples of aryls include phenyl naphthalenyl and indenyl.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent e.g. alkyl alkenyl alkynyl or cycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix C C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C C cycloalkyl means a saturated hydrocarbyl ring containing from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms.

The term hydrogen alone or in combination with another term s means a hydrogen radical and may be depicted as H.

The term halogen or halo alone or in combination with another term s means a fluorine radical which may be depicted as F chlorine radical which may be depicted as Cl bromine radical which may be depicted as Br or iodine radical which may be depicted as I .

If a substituent is described as being substituted a non hydrogen radical is in the place of hydrogen radical on a carbon or nitrogen of the substituent. Thus for example a substituted alkyl substituent is an alkyl substituent in which at least one non hydrogen radical is in the place of a hydrogen radical on the alkyl substituent. To illustrate monofluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with a fluoro radical and difluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with two fluoro radicals. It should be recognized that if there are more than one substitution on a substituent each non hydrogen radical may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen radicals that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen radicals or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 3 non hydrogen radicals then any heteroaryl with less than 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen radicals as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. To illustrate tetrazolyl which has only one substitutable position would be optionally substituted with up to one non hydrogen radical. To illustrate further if an amino nitrogen is described as being optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals then a primary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals whereas a secondary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to only 1 non hydrogen radical.

The prefix halo indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more independently selected halogen radicals. For example haloalkyl means an alkyl substituent in which at least one hydrogen radical is replaced with a halogen radical. Examples of haloalkyls include chloromethyl 1 bromoethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl and 1 1 1 trifluoroethyl. It should be recognized that if a substituent is substituted by more than one halogen radical those halogen radicals may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

The prefix perhalo indicates that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is replaced with independently selected halogen radicals i.e. each hydrogen radical on the substituent is replaced with a halogen radical. If all the halogen radicals are identical the prefix typically will identify the halogen radical. Thus for example the term perfluoro means that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with a fluorine radical. To illustrate the term perfluoroalkyl means an alkyl substituent wherein a fluorine radical is in the place of each hydrogen radical.

The term oxo alone or in combination with another term s means O . The term oxy alone or in combination with another term s means an ether substituent and may be depicted as O .

The term alkyloxy alone or in combination with another term s means an alkylether substituent i.e. O alkyl. Examples of such a substituent include methoxy O CH ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy iso butoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy.

Similarly the term heterocyclylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O heterocyclyl.

The term carbocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl carbocyclyl.

Similarly the term heterocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl heterocyclyl.

The term carbocyclylalkyloxycarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O O alkyl carbocyclyl.

The term thio or thia alone or in combination with another term s means a thiaether substituent i.e. an ether substituent wherein a divalent sulfur atom is in the place of the ether oxygen atom. Such a substituent may be depicted as S . This for example alkyl thio alkyl means alkyl 5 alkyl alkyl sulfanyl alkyl .

The term thiol or sulfhydryl alone or in combination with another term s means a sulfhydryl substituent and may be depicted as SH.

The term thiocarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means a carbonyl wherein the oxygen atom has been replaced with a sulfur. Such a substituent may be depicted as C S .

The term heterocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated i.e. heterocycloalkyl partially saturated i.e. heterocycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. heteroaryl ring structure containing a total of 3 to 14 ring atoms. At least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. A heterocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure.

A heterocyclyl may be a single ring which typically contains from 3 to 7 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring heterocyclyls include furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiophenyl thiofuranyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl furazanyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxatriazolyl including 1 2 3 4 oxatriazolyl or 1 2 3 5 oxatriazolyl dioxazolyl including 1 2 3 dioxazolyl 1 2 4 dioxazolyl 1 3 2 dioxazolyl or 1 3 4 dioxazolyl oxathiazolyl oxathiolyl oxathiolanyl pyranyl dihydropyranyl thiopyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl pyridinyl azinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl 1 2 diazinyl pyrimidinyl 1 3 diazinyl or pyrazinyl 1 4 diazinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including 1 3 5 triazinyl 1 2 4 triazinyl and 1 2 3 triazinyl oxazinyl including 1 2 oxazinyl 1 3 oxazinyl or 1 4 oxazinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxathiazinyl 1 2 4 oxathiazinyl 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazinyl 1 2 4 oxadiazinyl 1 4 2 oxadiazinyl or 1 3 5 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl azepinyl oxepinyl thiepinyl and diazepinyl.

A heterocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic heterocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic heterocyclyls. In a spirocyclic heterocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. In a bridged heterocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. In a fused ring heterocyclyl two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of fused ring heterocyclyls containing two or three rings include indolizinyl pyranopyrrolyl 4H quinolizinyl purinyl naphthyridinyl pyridopyridinyl including pyrido 3 4 b pyridinyl pyrido 3 2 b pyridinyl or pyrido 4 3 b pyridinyl and pteridinyl. Other examples of fused ring heterocyclyls include benzo fused heterocyclyls such as indolyl isoindolyl isobenzazolyl pseudoisoindolyl indoleninyl pseudoindolyl isoindazolyl benzpyrazolyl benzazinyl including quinolinyl 1 benzazinyl or isoquinolinyl 2 benzazinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl including cinnolinyl 1 2 benzodiazinyl or quinazolinyl 1 3 benzodiazinyl benzopyranyl including chromanyl or isochromanyl benzoxazinyl including 1 3 2 benzoxazinyl 1 4 2 benzoxazinyl 2 3 1 benzoxazinyl or 3 1 4 benzoxazinyl and benzisoxazinyl including 1 2 benzisoxazinyl or 1 4 benzisoxazinyl .

The term heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic heterocyclyl containing from 5 to 14 ring atoms. A heteroaryl may be a single ring or 2 or 3 fused rings. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered ring substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl and 1 3 5 1 2 4 or 1 2 3 triazinyl 5 membered ring substituents such as imidazyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl 6 5 membered fused ring substituents such as benzothiofuranyl benzisoxazolyl benzoxazolyl purinyl and anthranilyl and 6 6 membered fused rings such as benzopyranyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl cinnolinyl quinazolinyl and benzoxazinyl.

A prefix attached to a multi component substituent only applies to the first component. To illustrate the term alkylcycloalkyl contains two components alkyl and cycloalkyl. Thus the C C prefix on C C alkylcycloalkyl means that the alkyl component of the alkylcycloalkyl contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms the C C prefix does not describe the cycloalkyl component. To illustrate further the prefix halo on haloalkyloxyalkyl indicates that only the alkyloxy component of the alkyloxyalkyl substituent is substituted with one or more halogen radicals. If halogen substitution may alternatively or additionally occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as halogen substituted alkyloxyalkyl rather than haloalkyloxyalkyl. And finally if the halogen substitution may only occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as alkyloxyhaloalkyl. 

The terms treat treating and treatment refer to a method of alleviating or abrogating a disease and or its attendant symptoms.

The terms prevent preventing and prevention refer to a method of preventing the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms or barring a subject from acquiring a disease. As used herein prevent preventing and prevention also include delaying the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms and reducing a subject s risk of acquiring a disease.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of the compound being administered sufficient to prevent development of or alleviate to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the condition or disorder being treated.

The term modulate refers to the ability of a compound to increase or decrease the function or activity of a kinase. Modulation as used herein in its various forms is intended to encompass antagonism agonism partial antagonism and or partial agonism of the activity associated with kinase. Kinase inhibitors are compounds that e.g. bind to partially or totally block stimulation decrease prevent delay activation inactivate desensitize or down regulate signal transduction. Kinase activators are compounds that e.g. bind to stimulate increase open activate facilitate enhance activation sensitize or up regulate signal transduction.

The term composition as used herein is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts. By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

The subject is defined herein to include animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice and the like. In preferred embodiments the subject is a human.

R R and Rare independently hydrogen hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR 

Y is NRR NRC O R NRSOR aryl or heterocyclyl wherein the aryl and heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with one or more R 

Ris hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl C cycloalkyl C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heteroaryl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR and SONRNR and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more R 

Ris hydrogen or C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR and SONRNR 

Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR B OH CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR and wherein b the Raryl or heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

Ris C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl C cycloalkyl C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heteroaryl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro OR C O Ra C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR SONRNR and aryl and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more R 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl O C alkyl NH and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl wherein the aryl aryl C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

In one embodiment of formula I R R and Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula I Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment of formula I Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment of formula I Ris hydrogen and Rand Rare each independently hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR.

In another embodiment of formula I X is CRwherein Ris C alkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula I X is CRwherein Ris hydrogen.

In one embodiment of formula I Y is aryl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I the aryl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I Y is phenyl or naphthyl and the phenyl or naphthyl is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF. In another embodiment of formula I Y is phenyl and the phenyl is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl halogen OR SOR OCF and CF.

In one embodiment of formula I Y is heterocylyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I the heterocyclyl is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Y is piperidine thiomorpholine morpholine benzodioxolyl thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl wherein the piperidine thiomorpholine morpholine benzodioxolyl thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I Y is piperidine thiomorpholine morpholine benzodioxolyl thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl and the piperidine thiomorpholine morpholine benzodioxolyl thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF. In another embodiment of formula I Y is a piperidine thiomorpholine morpholine benzodioxolyl thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl and the piperidine thiomorpholine morpholine benzodioxolyl thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl halogen OR and C O OR.

In one embodiment of formula I Y is heterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I the heterocycloalkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I Y is piperidine thiomorpholine or morpholine and the piperidine thiomorpholine or morpholine is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I the piperidine thiomorpholine or morpholine is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF. In another embodiment of formula I Y is a piperidine thiomorpholine or morpholine and the piperidine thiomorpholine or morpholine is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl OR and C O OR.

In one embodiment of formula I Y is heteroaryl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I the heteroaryl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment Y is thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl wherein the thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I the thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF. In another embodiment Y is thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl and the thienyl pyridinyl or pyrazolyl is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen and OR.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O Ra NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR and SONRNR. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OR and NRR. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OR and NRRwherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OH OCH OCHCHOCHCHNH and NHCH.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris aryl or heteroaryl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I the aryl or heteroaryl is unsubstituted.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris phenyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula I Ris phenyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris OR wherein Ris C alkyl.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris a 5 7 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris 5 7 membered heteroaryl which is unsubstituted. In yet another embodiment of formula I Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris heterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris heterocycloalkyl which unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula I Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris cycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris cycloalkyl which unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula I Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris OR NRR NRC O R or NHSOR wherein R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl C alkyl wherein the aryl C alkyl alone or as part of another group is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen and Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C cycloalkyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl and the R C alkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the R C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of ORand NRR.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the C alkyl is C alkyl C alkyl or C alkyl . In one embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl .

In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are substituted with one or more C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF or OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with one or more OR. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of halogen OH and CF.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl the C cycloalkyl is an optionally substituted cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.

In one embodiment of formula I where Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment of formula I the Rheterocyclcoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl. In another embodiment of formula I wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In one embodiment wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the heteroaryl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heteroaryl. In yet another embodiment where Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the Rheteroaryl is furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl. In yet another embodiment where Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the Rheteroaryl is imidazolyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula I Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula I Ris methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl or t butyl. In another embodiment of formula I Ris methyl. In another embodiment of formula I Ris a substituted branched or straight chain Calkyl wherein the C alkyl is substituted with ORwherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula I Ris a substituted branched or straight chain Calkyl wherein the C alkyl is substituted with OCH.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula I Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain C alkyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris optionally substituted C alkyl. In one embodiment of formula I the RC alkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I the RC alkyl is substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the groups consisting of halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SONRNR and aryl wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula I the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris aryl or heteroaryl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I the aryl or heteroaryl is unsubstituted.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris phenyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula I Ris phenyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris OR wherein Ris C alkyl.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris a 5 7 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris 5 7 membered heteroaryl which is unsubstituted. In yet another embodiment of formula I Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF. In one embodiment of formula I the Rheteroaryl is pyridinyl.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris heterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris heterocycloalkyl which unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula I Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris cycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris cycloalkyl which unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula I Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris OR NRR NRC O R or NHSOR.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl and the R C alkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the R C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of ORand NRR.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the C alkyl is C alkyl C alkyl or C alkyl . In one embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl .

In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are substituted with one or more C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF or OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with one or more OR. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of halogen OH and CF.

In one embodiment of formula I wherein Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl the C cycloalkyl is an optionally substituted cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.

In one embodiment of formula I where Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment of formula I the Rheterocyclcoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl. In another embodiment of formula I wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In one embodiment wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the heteroaryl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heteroaryl. In yet another embodiment where Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the Rheteroaryl is furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl. In yet another embodiment where Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the Rheteroaryl is imidazolyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein RR and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl wherein the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl wherein the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris aryl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris aryl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris aryl C alkyl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris aryl C alkyl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein a the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR and NHSOR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is heterocyclyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is heterocyclyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen and OR and wherein R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen and OR and wherein R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen and OR wherein R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with NH or O C alkyl NH.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen and OR wherein R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with NH or O C alkyl NH.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is aryl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is aryl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl wherein the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more aryl C alkyl wherein the aryl C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more halogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl wherein the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCFwherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR wherein Ris hydrogen or C alkyl and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl and C cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more aryl C alkyl wherein the aryl C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more halogen.

R Rand Rare independently hydrogen hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR 

Ris hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl C cycloalkyl C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heteroaryl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR SONRNR and aryl and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more R 

Ris hydrogen or C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano OR C O Ra C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR and SONRNR 

Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR B OH CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR and wherein b the Raryl or heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl O C alkyl NH and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl wherein the aryl aryl C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

In one embodiment of formula II R R and Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula II Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment of formula II Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment of formula II Ris hydrogen and Rand Rare each independently hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula II Ris C alkyl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula II Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O Ra NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR and SONRNR. In another embodiment of formula II Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OR and NRR. In another embodiment of formula II Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OR and NRRwherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula II Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OH OCH OCHCHOCHCHNH and NHCH.

In another embodiment of formula II Ris aryl or heteroaryl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula II the aryl or heteroaryl is unsubstituted.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris phenyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula II Ris phenyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris OR wherein Ris C alkyl.

In another embodiment of formula II Ris a 5 7 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris 5 7 membered heteroaryl which is unsubstituted. In yet another embodiment of formula I Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula I Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF.

In another embodiment of formula II Ris heterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula II Ris heterocycloalkyl which unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula II Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula II Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula II Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In another embodiment of formula II Ris cycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula II Ris cycloalkyl which unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula II Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula II Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula II Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris OR NRR NRC O R or NHSOR wherein R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl C alkyl wherein the aryl C alkyl alone or as part of another group is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen and Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C cycloalkyl.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl and the R C alkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula II where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the R C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of ORand NRR.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the C alkyl is C alkyl C alkyl or C alkyl . In one embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl .

In another embodiment of formula II Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are substituted with one or more C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF or OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with one or more OR. In another embodiment of formula II Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of halogen OH and CF.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl the C cycloalkyl is an optionally substituted cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.

In one embodiment of formula II where Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment of formula II the Rheterocyclcoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl. In another embodiment of formula II wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted morpholinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In one embodiment wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the heteroaryl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heteroaryl. In yet another embodiment where Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the Rheteroaryl is furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl. In yet another embodiment where Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the Rheteroaryl is imidazolyl.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula II Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula II Ris methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl or t butyl. In another embodiment of formula II Ris methyl. In another embodiment of formula II Ris a substituted branched or straight chain Calkyl wherein the C alkyl is substituted with ORwherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula II Ris a substituted branched or straight chain Calkyl wherein the C alkyl is substituted with OCH.

Another aspect of the invention provides compounds of formula III wherein R R R Rand Rare as defined generally and in subsets above.

R Rand Rare independently hydrogen hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR 

Ris hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl C cycloalkyl C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heteroaryl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR SONRNR and aryl and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more R 

Ris hydrogen or C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR and SONRNR 

Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR B OH CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR and wherein b the Raryl or heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl O C alkyl NH and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl wherein the aryl aryl C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

In one embodiment of formula III R R and Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula III Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment of formula III Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment of formula III Ris hydrogen and Rand Rare each independently hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR.

In one embodiment of formula III Ris C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula III Ris C alkyl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula III Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR and SONRNR. In another embodiment of formula I Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OR and NRR. In another embodiment of formula III Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OR and NRRwherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula III Ris C alkyl which is substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of OH OCH OCHCHOCHCHNH and NHCH.

In another embodiment of formula III Ris aryl or heteroaryl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula III the aryl or heteroaryl is unsubstituted.

In one embodiment of formula III Ris phenyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula III Ris phenyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris OR wherein Ris C alkyl.

In another embodiment of formula III Ris a 5 7 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula III Ris 5 7 membered heteroaryl which is unsubstituted. In yet another embodiment of formula III Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula III Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF.

In another embodiment of formula III Ris heterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula III Ris heterocycloalkyl which unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula III Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula III Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula III Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In another embodiment of formula III Ris cycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula III Ris cycloalkyl which unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula III Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is unsubstituted. In one embodiment of formula III Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with OR. In one embodiment of formula III Ris cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl which is substituted with one two or three R and Ris OR NRR NRC O R or NHSOR wherein R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl C alkyl wherein the aryl C alkyl alone or as part of another group is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen and Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C cycloalkyl.

In one embodiment of formula III Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl and the R C alkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula III where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the R C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of ORand NRR.

In one embodiment of formula III Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the C alkyl is C alkyl C alkyl or C alkyl . In one embodiment of formula III Ris C alkyl .

In another embodiment of formula III Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted. In another embodiment of formula III Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are unsubstituted. In another embodiment of formula III Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are substituted with one or more C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF or OCF wherein a the RC alkyl substituent is optionally substituted with one or more OR. In another embodiment of formula III Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are substituted with one two or three R and Ris selected from the group consisting of halogen OH and CF.

In one embodiment of formula III Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl the C cycloalkyl is an optionally substituted cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.

In one embodiment of formula III where Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment of formula III the Rheterocycloalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl. In another embodiment of formula I wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted morpholinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In one embodiment wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the heteroaryl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heteroaryl. In yet another embodiment where Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the Rhetroaryl is furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl. In yet another embodiment where Ris heteroaryl C alkyl the Rheteroaryl is imidazolyl.

In one embodiment of formula III Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula III Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula III Ris methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl or t butyl. In another embodiment of formula III Ris methyl. In another embodiment of formula II Ris a substituted branched or straight chain Calkyl wherein the C alkyl is substituted with ORwherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl. In another embodiment of formula III Ris a substituted branched or straight chain Calkyl wherein the C alkyl is substituted with OCH.

Another aspect of the invention provides compounds of formula IV wherein X R R R and Rare as defined generally and in subsets above and n is 0 1 2 3 4 or 5.

R R and Rare independently hydrogen hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR 

Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR B OH CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR and wherein b the Raryl or heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl O C alkyl NH and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl wherein the aryl aryl C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

In one embodiment of formula IV R R and Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula IV Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment of formula IV Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment of formula IV Ris hydrogen and Rand Rare each independently hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR.

In another embodiment of formula IV X is CRwherein Ris C alkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula IV X is CRwherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment of formula IV n is 0. In another embodiment of formula IV n is 1. In another embodiment of formula IV n is 2. In another embodiment of formula IV n is 3.

In another embodiment of formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen oxo cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR B OH CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR and wherein b the Raryl or heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF. In another embodiment of formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR. In another embodiment of formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl heterocyclyl halogen OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SOR CF and OCF wherein the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OR R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl C alkyl wherein the aryl C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more halogen and Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C cycloalkyl.

Specific embodiments contemplated as part of the invention include but are not limited to compounds of formula I for example 

Compounds of this invention may contain asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms in the R or S configuration wherein the terms R and S are as defined in Pure Appl. Chem. 1976 45 13 10. Compounds having asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms with equal amounts of R and S configurations are racemic at those atoms. Atoms having excess of one configuration over the other are assigned the configuration in excess preferably an excess of about 85 90 more preferably an excess of about 95 99 and still more preferably an excess greater than about 99 . Accordingly this invention is meant to embrace racemic mixtures and relative and absolute diastereoisomers of the compounds thereof.

Compounds of this invention may also contain carbon carbon double bonds or carbon nitrogen double bonds in the E or Z configuration wherein the term E represents higher order substituents on opposite sides of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond and the term Z represents higher order substituents on the same side of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond as determined by the Cahn Ingold Prelog Priority Rules. The compounds of this invention may also exist as a mixture of E and Z isomers.

Additional geometric isomers may exist in the present compounds. For example the invention contemplates the various geometric isomers and mixtures thereof resulting from the disposition of substituents around a cycloalkyl group or a heterocycle group. Substituents around a cycloalkyl or a heterocycle are designated as being of cis or trans configuration.

Compounds of this invention may also exist as tautomers or equilibrium mixtures thereof wherein a proton of a compound shifts from one atom to another. Examples of tautomers include but are not limited to keto enol phenol keto oxime nitroso nitro aci imine enamine and the like. Both tautomeric forms are intended to be encompassed by the scope of this invention even though only one tautomeric form may be depicted. For example compounds of formula I may tautomerise into compounds of the following structure 

This invention also is directed in part to all salts of the compounds of formula I . A salt of a compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s properties such as for example enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or other solvents. Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being in use in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable and or physiologically compatible. The term pharmaceutically acceptable is used adjectivally in this patent application to mean that the modified noun is appropriate for use as a pharmaceutical product or as a part of a pharmaceutical product. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts commonly used to form alkali metal salts and to form addition salts of free acids or free bases. In general these salts typically may be prepared by conventional means by reacting for example the appropriate acid or base with a compound of the invention.

Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of formula I can be prepared from an inorganic or organic acid. Examples of often suitable inorganic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic nitric carbonic sulfuric and phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids. Specific examples of often suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilic acid mesylate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sulfanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid beta hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate oxalate palmoate pectinate 2 naphthalesulfonate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate tosylate and undecanoate.

Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts of the compounds of formula I include for example metallic salts and organic salts. Preferred metallic salts include alkali metal group Ia salts alkaline earth metal group IIa salts and other physiologically acceptable metal salts. Such salts may be made from aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc. Preferred organic salts can be made from amines such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups can be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

Compounds of formula I and salts thereof with any level of purity including pure and substantially pure are within the scope of Applicants invention. The term substantially pure in reference to a compound salt isomer means that the preparation composition containing the compound salt isomer contains more than about 85 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 90 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 95 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 97 by weight of the compound salt isomer and preferably more than about 99 by weight of the compound salt isomer.

Compounds of this invention may be made by synthetic chemical processes examples of which are shown herein. It is meant to be understood that the order of the steps in the processes may be varied that reagents solvents and reaction conditions may be substituted for those specifically mentioned and that vulnerable moieties may be protected and deprotected as necessary.

Protecting groups for C O OH moieties include but are not limited to acetoxymethyl allyl benzoylmethyl benzyl benzyloxymethyl tert butyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl diphenylmethyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl cyclopentyl cyclopropyl diphenylmethylsilyl ethyl para methoxybenzyl methoxymethyl methoxyethoxymethyl methyl methylthiomethyl naphthyl para nitrobenzyl phenyl n propyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl triethylsilyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl triphenylmethyl and the like. Protecting groups for C O and C O H moieties include but are not limited to 1 3 dioxylketal diethylketal dimethylketal 1 3 dithianylketal O methyloxime O phenyloxime and the like.

Protecting groups for NH moieties include but are not limited to acetyl alanyl benzoyl benzyl phenylmethyl benzylidene benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz tert butoxycarbonyl Boc 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl diphenylmethyl diphenylphosphoryl formyl methanesulfonyl para methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl phenylacetyl phthaloyl succinyl trichloroethoxycarbonyl triethylsilyl trifluoroacetyl trimethylsilyl triphenylmethyl triphenylsilyl para toluenesulfonyl and the like.

Protecting groups for OH and SH moieties include but are not limited to acetyl allyl allyloxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz benzoyl benzyl tert butyl tert butyldimethylsilyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl 1 1 dimethyl 2 propenyl diphenylmethyl formyl methanesulfonyl methoxyacetyl 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl para methoxybenzyl methoxycarbonyl methyl para toluenesulfonyl 2 2 2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl triethylsilyl trifluoroacetyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxycarbonyl 2 trimethylsilylethyl triphenylmethyl 2 triphenylphosphonio ethoxycarbonyl and the like.

The present compounds may be prepared by a variety of processes well known for the preparation of compounds of this class. For example the compounds of formula I wherein the groups X Y R R and Rhave the meanings as set forth in the summary unless otherwise noted can be synthesized according to the general methods described in Schemes 1 5 using appropriate starting materials by methods generally available to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Abbreviations which have been used in the descriptions of the Schemes and the Examples that follow are DMF for N N dimethylformamide DMSO for dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO dfor deuteriated dimethyl sulfoxide DME for dimethoxyethane dppf for 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene EtO for diethyl ether EtOAc for ethyl acetate EtN for triethylamine Ts for toluene sulfonyl and THF for tetrahydrofuran.

Compounds of formula 2 wherein R R and Rare as described for formula I herein and PG is a suitable protecting group such as a benzenesulfonyl group can be treated with compounds of formula I wherein X is N or CR to provide compounds of formula 3 as shown in Scheme 1. The reaction is typically performed in the presence of a palladium catalyst and a base at elevated temperature e.g. at about 70 C. to about 150 C. or optionally under microwave irradiation and in a suitable solvent such as DMF dioxane ethanol water DME or mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of suitable palladium catalysts include dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II PdCl dppf and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium. Suitable bases include but are not limited to cesium fluoride sodium carbonate potassium acetate cesium carbonate. Oxidation of the methylthio functionality in compounds of formula 3 with an oxidizing agent such as but not limited to OXONE in a suitable solvent such as methanol HO or ethyl acetate HO provides compounds of formula 4 .

Displacement of the methylsulfonyl group of compounds of formula 4 with amines of formula N H RR wherein Rand Rare as described for formula I herein will provide compounds of formula 5 . The reaction can be conducted in a suitable solvent e.g. dioxane or in excess of the amine employed at a temperature from about 60 C. to about 150 C. optionally in the presence of a base e.g. triethylamine or diisopropylethyl amine and optionally under microwave irradiation. Compounds of formula 6 which are representative of compounds of this invention can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 5 with an aqueous base such as but not limited to sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide in a solvent such as but not limited to dioxane or ethanol to remove the protecting group followed by a work up and subsequent treatment with an acid such but not limited to aqueous HCl.

As shown in Scheme 2 compounds of formula 4 can be reacted with a Grignard reagent of formula 7 wherein Y is as aryl or heterocyclyl and Xis a halogen such as I Br or Cl or a pseudohalide such as a triflate. The Grignard reagent is typically added at low temperature followed by the addition of an aqueous base such as but not limited to sodium hydroxide at ambient temperature. Addition of an acid such as but not limited to hydrochloric acid at an elevated temperature will provide compounds of formula 9 which are representative of the compounds of this invention.

As shown in Scheme 3 compounds of formula 11 can be prepared from compounds of formula 10 by treating the latter with potassium tert butoxide at reflux. Compounds of formula 12 wherein R R and Rare as described for formula I herein can be reacted with compounds of formula 11 to provide compounds of formula 13 . The reaction is typically performed in the presence of a palladium catalyst and a base at elevated temperature e.g. at about 70 C. to about 150 C. or optionally under microwave irradiation and in a suitable solvent such as DMF dioxane ethanol water DME or mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of suitable palladium catalysts include dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II PdCl dppf and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium. Suitable bases include but are not limited to sodium carbonate potassium acetate cesium carbonate. Removal of the benzenesulfonyl group from compounds of formula 13 with an aqueous base such as but not limited to sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide will provide compounds of formula 14 . The reaction is typically performed at an elevated temperature and may include an additional solvent such as but not limited to dioxane or ethanol. Compounds of formula 14 can be reacted with a boronic acid Y B OH or a boron ester wherein Y is aryl or heteroaryl to provide compounds of formula 15 . The reaction is typically performed in the presence of a palladium catalyst and a base at elevated temperature e.g. at about 70 C. to about 150 C. or optionally under microwave irradiation and in a suitable solvent such as DMF dioxane ethanol water DME or mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of suitable palladium catalysts include dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II PdCl dppf and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium. Suitable bases include but are not limited to cesium fluoride sodium carbonate potassium acetate cesium carbonate. Addition of an acid such as but not limited to trifluoroacetic acid at ambient or an elevated temperature will provide compounds of formula 16 which are representative of compounds of this invention.

As shown in Scheme 4 direct displacement of the chloro in compounds of formula 13 with amines of formula N H RRwill provide compounds of formula 17 . The reaction can be conducted in a suitable solvent e.g. dioxane or in excess of the amines employed at a temperature from about 60 C. to about 150 C. optionally in the presence of a base e.g. triethylamine diisopropylethyl amine and optionally under microwave irradiation. Addition of an acid such as but not limited to p toluenesulfonic acid will provide compounds of formula 18 which are representative of compounds of this invention.

As shown in scheme 5 2 6 difluoro 4 iodopyridine can be reacted with compounds of formula 12 to provide compounds of formula 17 . The reaction is typically performed in the presence of a palladium catalyst and a base at elevated temperature e.g. at about 70 C. to about 150 C. or optionally under microwave irradiation and in a suitable solvent such as DMF dioxane ethanol water DME or mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of suitable palladium catalysts include dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II PdCl dppf and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium. Suitable bases include but are not limited to sodium carbonate potassium acetate cesium carbonate. Removal of the benzenesulfonyl group from compounds of formula 17 with an aqueous base such as but not limited to sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide will provide compounds of formula 18 . The reaction is typically performed at an elevated temperature and may include an additional solvent such as but not limited to dioxane or ethanol. Displacement of the fluoro in compounds of formula 18 with trans cyclohexane 1 4 diamine will provide compounds of formula 19 . The reaction is typically performed under microwave irradiation in a solvent such as but not limited to ethanol. Compounds of formula 19 can be heated using microwave irradiation with an aqueous acid such as but not limited to hydrochloric acid in a solvent such as but not limited to tert butanol to provide compounds of formula 20 . Compounds of formula 21 which are representative of compounds of this invention can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 20 by reacting the latter with compounds of formula RSOCl RC O H RC O OH RC O Cl or RC O OH under suitable coupling or reduction amination reaction conditions described herein known to those skilled in the art and readily available in the literature.

Unless otherwise noted microwave reactions described herein were carried out either in a Biotage Initiator 8 or in a CEM Explorer at 200 W. All reverse phase HPLC purifications were carried out using a Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column and a eluting with a 0 100 gradient of mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid TFA in water and mobile phase B 0.1 TFA in CHCN .

In another aspect the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions for modulating kinase activity in a humans and animals that will typically contain a compound of formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Compounds having formula I may be administered for example bucally ophthalmically orally osmotically parenterally intramuscularly intraperintoneally intrasternally intravenously subcutaneously rectally topically transdermally vaginally and intraarterially as well as by intraarticular injection infusion and placement in the body such as for example the vasculature.

Compounds having formula I may be administered with or without an excipient. Excipients include but are not limited to encapsulators and additives such as absorption accelerators antioxidants binders buffers coating agents coloring agents diluents disintegrating agents emulsifiers extenders fillers flavoring agents humectants lubricants perfumes preservatives propellants releasing agents sterilizing agents sweeteners solubilizers wetting agents mixtures thereof and the like.

Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered orally include but are not limited to agar alginic acid aluminum hydroxide benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate 1 3 butylene glycol carbomers castor oil cellulose cellulose acetate cocoa butter corn starch corn oil cottonseed oil cross povidone diglycerides ethanol ethyl cellulose ethyl laureate ethyl oleate fatty acid esters gelatin germ oil glucose glycerol groundnut oil hydroxypropylmethyl celluose isopropanol isotonic saline lactose magnesium hydroxide magnesium stearate malt mannitol monoglycerides olive oil peanut oil potassium phosphate salts potato starch povidone propylene glycol Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sodium phosphate salts sodium lauryl sulfate sodium sorbitol soybean oil stearic acids stearyl fumarate sucrose surfactants talc tragacanth tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol triglycerides water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered ophthalmically or orally include but are not limited to 1 3 butylene glycol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil ethanol fatty acid esters of sorbitan germ oil groundnut oil glycerol isopropanol olive oil polyethylene glycols propylene glycol sesame oil water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered osmotically include but are not limited to chlorofluorohydrocarbons ethanol water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered parenterally include but are not limited to 1 3 butanediol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil dextrose germ oil groundnut oil liposomes oleic acid olive oil peanut oil Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil soybean oil U.S.P. or isotonic sodium chloride solution water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered rectally or vaginally include but are not limited to cocoa butter polyethylene glycol wax mixtures thereof and the like.

The pharmaceutical composition and the method of the present invention may further comprise other therapeutically active compounds as noted herein which are usually applied in the treatment of the above mentioned pathological conditions.

In another aspect the present invention provides methods of using a compound or composition of the invention to treat or prevent a disease or condition involving mediation overexpression or disregulation of kinases in a mammal. In particular compounds of this invention are expected to have utility in treatment of diseases or conditions during which protein kinases such as any or all CDC 7 family members are expressed.

In one group of embodiments diseases and conditions of humans or other animals that can be treated with inhibitors of kinases include but are not limited to acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myleogeneous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma follicular lymphoma germ cell testicular cancer glioma heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma liposarcoma lung cancer lymphagioendotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia lymphoma medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma non small cell lung cancer oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas small cell lung cancer stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma thyroid cancer Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer and Wilms tumor.

The methods of the present invention typically involve administering to a subject in need of therapeutic treatment an effective amount of a compound of formula I . Therapeutically effective amounts of a compound having formula I depend on recipient of treatment disease treated and severity thereof composition comprising it time of administration route of administration duration of treatment potency rate of clearance and whether or not another drug is co administered. The amount of a compound having formula I used to make a composition to be administered daily to a patient in a single dose or in divided doses is from about 0.03 to about 200 mg kg body weight. Single dose compositions contain these amounts or a combination of submultiples thereof.

The present invention further provides methods of using a compound or composition of the invention in combination with one or more additional active agents.

Compounds having Formula I are expected to be useful when used with alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitotics antiproliferatives antivirals aurora kinase inhibitors apoptosis promoters for example Bcl xL Bcl w and Bfl 1 inhibitors activators of death receptor pathway Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors BiTE Bi Specific T cell Engager antibodies antibody drug conjugates biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors DVDs leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins IAPs intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors kinesin inhibitors Jak2 inhibitors mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors microRNA s mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors multivalent binding proteins non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs poly ADP adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase PARP inhibitors platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase Plk inhibitors phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors proteosome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors etinoids deltoids plant alkaloids small inhibitory ribonucleic acids siRNAs topoisomerase inhibitors ubiquitin ligase inhibitors and the like and in combination with one or more of these agents.

BiTE antibodies are bi specific antibodies that direct T cells to attack cancer cells by simultaneously binding the two cells. The T cell then attacks the target cancer cell. Examples of BiTE antibodies include adecatumumab Micromet MT201 blinatumomab Micromet MT103 and the like. Without being limited by theory one of the mechanisms by which T cells elicit apoptosis of the target cancer cell is by exocytosis of cytolytic granule components which include perforin and granzyme B. In this regard Bcl 2 has been shown to attenuate the induction of apoptosis by both perforin and granzyme B. These data suggest that inhibition of Bcl 2 could enhance the cytotoxic effects elicited by T cells when targeted to cancer cells V. R. Sutton D. L. Vaux and J. A. Trapani 1997 158 12 5783 .

SiRNAs are molecules having endogenous RNA bases or chemically modified nucleotides. The modifications do not abolish cellular activity but rather impart increased stability and or increased cellular potency. Examples of chemical modifications include phosphorothioate groups 2 deoxynucleotide 2 OCH containing ribonucleotides 2 F ribonucleotides 2 methoxyethyl ribonucleotides combinations thereof and the like. The siRNA can have varying lengths e.g. 10 200 bps and structures e.g. hairpins single double strands bulges nicks gaps mismatches and are processed in cells to provide active gene silencing. A double stranded siRNA dsRNA can have the same number of nucleotides on each strand blunt ends or asymmetric ends overhangs . The overhang of 1 2 nucleotides can be present on the sense and or the antisense strand as well as present on the 5 and or the 3 ends of a given strand. For example siRNAs targeting Mcl 1 have been shown to enhance the activity of ABT 263 i.e. N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide or ABT 737 i.e. N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in multiple tumor cell lines Tse et. al 2008 68 9 3421 and references therein .

Multivalent binding proteins are binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Multivalent binding proteins are engineered to have the three or more antigen binding sites and are generally not naturally occurring antibodies. The term multispecific binding protein means a binding protein capable of binding two or more related or unrelated targets. Dual variable domain DVD binding proteins are tetravalent or multivalent binding proteins binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Such DVDs may be monospecific i.e. capable of binding one antigen or multispecific i.e. capable of binding two or more antigens . DVD binding proteins comprising two heavy chain DVD polypeptides and two light chain DVD polypeptides are referred to as DVD Ig s. Each half of a DVD Ig comprises a heavy chain DVD polypeptide a light chain DVD polypeptide and two antigen binding sites. Each binding site comprises a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain with a total of 6 CDRs involved in antigen binding per antigen binding site. Multispecific DVDs include DVD binding proteins that bind DLL4 and VEGF or C met and EFGR or ErbB3 and EGFR.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil CLORETAZINE laromustine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa TREANDA bendamustine treosulfan rofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA pemetrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidine XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR 5 ethynyl 1 3 D ribofuranosylimidazole 4 carboxamide enocitabine ethnylcytidine fludarabine 5 fluorouracil alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosfate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Aurora kinase inhibitors include ABT 348 AZD 1152 MLN 8054 VX 680 Aurora A specific kinase inhibitors Aurora B specific kinase inhibitors and pan Aurora kinase inhibitors and the like.

Bcl 2 protein inhibitors include AT 101 gossypol GENASENSE G3139 or oblimersen Bcl 2 targeting antisense oligonucleotide IPI 194 IPI 565 N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide ABT 737 N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide ABT 263 GX 070 obatoclax and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 398 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include ABX EGF anti EGFR immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib HERCEPTIN trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecfic antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like.

HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB human recombinant antibody to HSP 90 NCS 683664 PU24FC1 PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins include HGS1029 GDC 0145 GDC 0152 LCL 161 LBW 242 and the like.

Antibody drug conjugates include anti CD22 MC MMAF anti CD22 MC MMAE anti CD22 MCC DM1 CR 011 veMMAE PSMA ADC MEDI 547 SGN 19 Am SGN 35 SGN 75 and the like

Activators of death receptor pathway include TRAIL antibodies or other agents that target TRAIL or death receptors e.g. DR4 and DR5 such as Apomab conatumumab ETR2 ST01 GDC0145 lexatumumab HGS 1029 LBY 135 PRO 1762 and trastuzumab.

Kinesin inhibitors include Eg5 inhibitors such as AZD4877 ARRY 520 CENPE inhibitors such as GSK923295A and the like.

mTOR inhibitors include AP 23573 CCl 779 everolimus RAD 001 rapamycin temsirolimus ATP competitive TORC1 TORC2 inhibitors including PI 103 PP242 PP30 Torin 1 and the like.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofen cream ALEVE naproxen and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin picoplatin and the like.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors include wortmannin LY294002 XL 147 CAL 120 ONC 21 AEZS 127 ETP 45658 PX 866 GDC 0941 BGT226 BEZ235 XL765 and the like.

VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME a ribozyme that inhibits angiogenesis Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 MACUGEN pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 vatalanib PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 GA101 ofatumumab ABT 806 mAb 806 ErbB3 specific antibodies BSG2 specific antibodies DLL4 specific antibodies and C met specific antibodies and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET liposomal doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like.

Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARD10 ANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab CD20 antibodies types I and II and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene AFEMA fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL doxercalciferol RENAGEL sevelamer carbonate lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix prednisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH VANTAS Histrelin implant VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

PARP inhibitors include ABT 888 veliparib olaparib KU 59436 AZD 2281 AG 014699 BSI 201 BGP 15 INO 1001 ONO 2231 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma nl combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE IFN BAM 002 oxidized glutathione BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CAMPATH alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 anti CTLA 4 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OVAREX oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sipuleucel T sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin THERACYS Bacillus Calmette Guerin ubenimex VIRULIZIN immunotherapeutic Lorus Pharmaceuticals Z 100 Specific Substance of Maruyama SSM WF 10 Tetrachlorodecaoxide TCDO PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN 90Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofiran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like.

Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C or Arabinoside C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 larotaxel vinflunine ZK EPO synthetic epothilone and the like.

Ubiquitin ligase inhibitors include MDM2 inhibitors such as nutlins NEDD8 inhibitors such as MLN4924 and the like.

Compounds of this invention can also be used as radiosensitizers that enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachytherapy and sealed unsealed source radiotherapy and the like.

Additionally compounds having Formula I may be combined with other chemotherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN Ad5CMV p53 vaccine ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly C12U a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotene AVE 8062 combreastatin derivative BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CEAVAC cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin 0 Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CYPAT cyproterone acetate combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin fused via a His Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA eniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EPO906 epithilone B GARDASIL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine GASTRIMMUNE GENASENSE GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTATAAE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment ONCOVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECIN rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OVAREX MAb murine monoclonal antibody paclitaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from ginseng comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine Streptomyces staurospores talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene TAXOPREXIN DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA canfosfamide TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFERADE adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane ZOMETA zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

The following examples are presented to provide what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of procedures and conceptual aspects of this invention. The exemplified compounds were named using ACD ChemSketch Release 12.00 Version 12.01 13 May 2009 Advanced Chemistry Development Inc. Toronto Ontario or ChemDraw Ver. 9.0.5 CambridgeSoft Cambridge Mass. . Intermediates were named using ChemDraw Ver. 9.0.5 CambridgeSoft Cambridge Mass. .

A mixture of 4 chloro 6 methoxy 2 methylthio pyrimidine 10.2 g 53.7 mmol 1 phenylsulfonyl 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 18.8 g 48.8 mmol potassium carbonate 48.8 g 98 mmol and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 2.26 g 1.95 mmol in 9 1 dimethoxyethane N N dimethylformamide 200 mL was evacuated under vacuum and refilled with nitrogen and heated at 85 C. for 20 minutes. The cooled mixture was filtered to give the title compound.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 1A 6.2 g 15.0 mmol and OXONE 92 g 150 mmol in ethyl acetate 350 mL was stirred at 77 C. for 2 days. The mixture was filtered and the solids were washed with dichloromethane and concentrated to give the title compound.

A solution of EXAMPLE 1B 6.7 g 15.1 mmol and cyclohexanamine 6.90 mL 60.3 mmol in dioxane 165 mL was heated at 100 C. overnight. The mixture was concentrated to afford the crude title compound which was directly used in the next step.

To EXAMPLE 1C 6.99 g 15.1 mmol was added dioxane 150 mL and aqueous 1M NaOH 75 mL 75 mmol . The mixture was heated at 100 C. for 1.5 hours and concentrated. The residue was partitioned between water and dichloromethane and the organic layer dried over sodium sulfate filtered through silica gel with ethyl acetate and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 12 aqueous HCl 55 mL 199 mmol and heated at 80 C. for 2 days. The cooled mixture was filtered and the crude HCl salt was isolated.

The HCl salt from EXAMPLE 1D was dissolved in methanol 500 mL and 7M ammonia in methanol 13.9 mL 97 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes and concentrated. The residue was washed with water and concentrated to provide the title compound as the free base. MS ESI m e 310 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.17 1.81 m 8H 1.93 2.07 m 2H 3.71 3.98 m 1H 6.05 s 1H 6.37 d J 6.35 Hz 1H 7.15 dd J 8.13 4.56 Hz 1H 8.19 d J 2.78 Hz 1H 8.25 dd J 4.76 1.59 Hz 1H 8.63 d J 7.14 Hz 1H 10.17 s 1H 12.11 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the free base using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with benzylamine MS ESI m e 318 M H H NMR DMSO d 4.65 d J 5.83 Hz 2H 6.08 s 1H 6.92 s 1H 7.06 dd J 7.98 4.91 Hz 1H 7.26 t J 7.21 Hz 1H 7.32 7.47 m 4H 8.16 d J 1.53 Hz 1H 8.22 dd J 4.60 1.84 Hz 1H 8.38 8.50 m 1H 10.57 s 1H 12.07 s 1H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 1B 0.089 g 0.20 mmol and aniline 0.2 mL in N methylpyrrolidone 3 mL was heated in a microwave at 235 C. for 1.5 hours. The mixture was concentrated and purified by reverse phase HPLC to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 304 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.33 s 1H 7.06 7.18 m 2H 7.34 7.45 m 2H 7.68 d J 7.67 Hz 2H 8.23 s 1H 8.26 8.31 m 1H 8.56 d J 7.67 Hz 1H 8.84 s 1H 12.22 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with trans 1 4 diaminocyclohexane. MS ESI m e 325 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.29 1.48 m 2H 1.50 1.65 m 2H 2.05 t J 14.49 Hz 4H 3.08 d J 4.27 Hz 1H 3.84 s 1H 6.46 s 1H 7.34 s 1H 8.26 d J 4.27 Hz 3H 8.36 8.45 m 1H 8.45 8.56 m 1H 8.76 s 1H 9.23 s 1H 12.91 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 3 5 difluorophenyl methanamine MS ESI m e 354 M H H NMR DMSO d 4.72 d J 3.38 Hz 2H 6.40 s 1H 6.94 7.43 m 5H 8.20 8.73 m 4H 12.70 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with piperidin 4 amine MS ESI m e 311 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.29 1.43 m 2H 1.81 1.92 m 5H 2.98 3.12 m 3H 4.44 d J 13.20 Hz 2H 6.16 s 1H 7.18 dd J 7.83 4.76 Hz 1H 8.22 s 1H 8.26 dd J 4.60 1.53 Hz 1H 8.55 dd J 7.98 1.23 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with piperidin 4 ol. MS ESI m e 312 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.38 1.57 m 2H 1.76 1.96 m 2H 3.37 3.55 m 2H 3.75 3.88 m 1H 4.07 4.21 m 2H 6.38 s 1H 7.44 dd J 7.98 5.22 Hz 1H 8.39 8.47 m 1H 8.74 d J 7.67 Hz 1H 12.99 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with S 1 phenylethanamine. MS ESI m e 332 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.51 d J 6.75 Hz 3H 5.19 q J 6.85 Hz 1H 6.04 s 1H 6.92 s 1H 7.07 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 7.24 t J 7.36 Hz 1H 7.33 7.48 m 4H 8.11 s 1H 8.22 dd J 4.60 1.53 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 7.67 Hz 1H 10.27 s 1H 12.04 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine MS ESI m e 332 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.37 1.67 m 2H 1.96 d J 10.68 Hz 2H 3.45 t J 10.22 Hz 2H 3.85 3.96 m 2H 4.05 4.18 m 2H 6.46 s 1H 7.28 7.38 m 1H 8.35 8.47 m 1H 8.46 8.59 m 1H 8.75 s 1H 9.37 d J 5.49 Hz 1H 12.90 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with tetrahydrofuran 2 yl methanamine MS ESI m e 325 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.54 1.70 m 1H 1.77 2.09 m 3H 3.48 3.74 m 3H 3.81 3.90 m 1H 3.98 4.10 m 1H 6.49 s 1H 7.29 7.39 m 1H 8.42 dd J 4.88 1.22 Hz 1H 8.50 s 1H 8.84 s 1H 9.02 s 1H 12.92 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with N methylcyclohexanamine MS ESI m e 324 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.07 1.25 m 1H 1.34 1.76 m 7H 1.83 d J 12.58 Hz 2H 2.98 s 3H 4.51 t J 11.35 Hz 1H 6.10 s 1H 7.17 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 8.20 d J 2.15 Hz 1H 8.26 dd J 4.60 1.23 Hz 1H 8.57 8.68 m 1H 10.70 s 1H 12.08 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with R 1 phenylethanamine MS ESI m e 332 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.51 d J 6.75 Hz 3H 5.19 q J 7.06 Hz 1H 6.04 s 1H 6.92 s 1H 7.07 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 7.24 t J 7.36 Hz 1H 7.37 t J 7.67 Hz 2H 7.41 7.47 m 2H 8.10 s 1H 8.22 dd J 4.60 1.53 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 7.67 Hz 1H 10.26 s 1H 12.03 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with cyclohexane 1 2 diamine MS ESI m e 325 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.19 2.19 m 10H 3.02 3.19 m 1H 4.07 s 1H 7.19 7.49 m 2H 8.14 8.65 m 5H 12.96 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with cycloheptanamine MS ESI m e 324 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.44 1.74 m 10H 1.91 2.08 m 2H 3.95 4.15 m 1H 6.06 s 1H 6.37 s 1H 7.15 dd J 7.97 4.58 Hz 1H 8.19 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.25 dd J 4.75 1.69 Hz 1H 8.64 d J 8.14 Hz 1H 10.17 s 1H 12.13 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with thiomorpholine. MS ESI m e 314 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.61 2.75 m 4H 3.99 4.14 m 4H 6.21 s 1H 7.18 dd J 7.93 4.88 Hz 1H 8.21 8.31 m 2H 8.53 d J 7.32 Hz 1H 10.99 s 1H 12.16 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with N methylethane 1 2 diamine. MS ESI m e 285 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.35 s 3H 2.70 2.80 m 2H 3.43 3.54 m 3H 6.05 s 1H 6.60 s 1H 7.15 dd J 7.97 4.58 Hz 1H 8.18 s 1H 8.25 dd J 4.58 1.53 Hz 1H 8.62 dd J 8.14 1.70 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with bis 2 methoxyethyl amine MS ESI m e 344 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.30 s 6H 3.61 t J 5.06 Hz 4H 3.76 3.95 m 4H 6.36 s 1H 7.34 7.43 m 1H 8.38 8.44 m 1H 8.36 s 1H 8.81 d J 7.36 Hz 1H 12.85 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 2 methoxyethanamine MS ESI m e 286 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.32 s 3H 3.52 3.65 m 4H 6.08 s 1H 6.47 6.58 m 1H 7.16 dd J 7.93 4.88 Hz 1H 8.20 d J 1.22 Hz 1H 8.26 dd J 4.58 1.53 Hz 1H 8.61 d J 7.02 Hz 1H 10.47 s 1H 12.13 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 2 aminoethanol. MS ESI m e 272 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.50 q J 5.42 Hz 2H 3.62 t J 5.52 Hz 2H 6.05 s 1H 6.61 s 1H 7.16 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 8.17 s 1H 8.25 dd J 4.60 1.53 Hz 1H 8.60 dd J 7.98 1.53 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl methanamine MS ESI m e 386 M H H NMR DMSO d 4.89 d J 4.30 Hz 2H 6.48 s 1H 7.23 s 1H 7.46 7.59 m 1H 7.70 d J 3.99 Hz 2H 7.80 d J 7.67 Hz 1H 8.27 8.93 m 3H 12.81 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with piperidin 4 ylmethanol. MS ESI m e 326 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.05 1.35 m 2H 1.59 1.88 m 3H 3.03 t J 12.04 Hz 2H 3.30 d J 5.76 Hz 2H 4.51 d J 12.89 Hz 2H 6.29 s 1H 7.36 dd J 8.14 5.09 Hz 1H 8.30 8.45 m 2H 8.67 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 12.73 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 3 morpholinopropan 1 amine MS ESI m e 355 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.66 1.83 m 2H 2.25 2.43 m 6H 3.45 q J 6.44 Hz 2H 3.52 3.65 m 5H 6.04 s 1H 6.74 s 1H 7.15 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 8.16 s 1H 8.23 8.29 m 1H 8.58 8.68 m 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 3 aminomethyl phenol. MS ESI m e 334 M H H NMR DMSO d 4.63 d J 3.68 Hz 2H 6.48 s 1H 6.66 6.74 m 1H 6.78 6.87 m 2H 7.17 t J 7.83 Hz 1H 7.32 dd J 7.98 4.91 Hz 1H 8.41 d J 3.68 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 7.06 Hz 1H 8.73 s 1H 9.22 s 1H 12.86 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with morpholine. MS ESI m e 298 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.56 3.83 m 8H 6.22 s 1H 7.18 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 8.16 8.37 m 2H 8.55 d J 7.98 Hz 1H 10.95 s 1H 12.12 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with piperidine 4 carboxamide. MS ESI m e 340 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.54 1.73 m 2H 1.90 2.00 m 2H 2.56 2.69 m 1H 3.16 3.31 m 2H 4.39 d J 13.50 Hz 2H 6.37 s 1H 7.43 dd J 7.98 5.22 Hz 1H 8.38 8.48 m 2H 8.76 d J 7.67 Hz 1H 12.94 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with cyclopentanamine MS ESI m e 295 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.45 1.79 m 6H 1.91 2.13 m 2H 4.21 4.39 m 1H 6.06 s 1H 6.40 6.51 m 1H 7.16 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 8.18 d J 1.84 Hz 1H 8.25 dd J 4.60 1.53 Hz 1H 8.64 dd J 7.98 1.23 Hz 1H 10.13 s 1H 12.09 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 4 methoxypiperidine. MS ESI m e 326 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.46 1.60 m 2H 1.88 2.00 m 2H 3.30 s 3H 3.42 3.57 m 3H 4.00 4.14 m 2H 6.34 s 1H 7.40 dd J 7.21 5.06 Hz 1H 8.40 s 2H 8.73 d J 7.67 Hz 1H 12.85 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 2 aminocyclohexanol. MS ESI m e 326 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.13 1.79 m 8H 2.98 3.09 m 1H 3.86 3.93 m 1H 5.88 s 1H 7.29 dd J 7.93 4.88 Hz 1H 7.81 7.95 m 2H 8.31 8.40 m 2H 10.97 d J 30.82 Hz 1H 12.65 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 1 methylpiperidin 4 amine MS ESI m e 325 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.47 1.60 m 2H 1.93 2.02 m 2H 2.06 2.16 m 2H 2.21 s 3H 2.68 2.79 m 2H 3.78 3.92 m 1H 6.04 s 1H 6.88 7.01 m 1H 7.15 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 8.17 s 1H 8.23 8.27 m 1H 8.61 dd J 7.98 1.53 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 3 1H imidazol 1 yl propan 1 amine MS ESI m e 336 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.00 2.10 m 2H 3.17 s 1H 3.33 3.40 m 2H 3.51 3.59 m 1H 4.09 t J 6.90 Hz 2H 6.06 s 1H 6.78 6.86 m 1H 6.92 s 1H 7.17 dd J 7.98 4.60 Hz 1H 7.22 s 1H 7.67 s 1H 8.15 s 1H 8.25 dd J 4.60 1.53 Hz 1H 8.52 dd J 7.98 1.53 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared as the HCl salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 1 replacing cyclohexanamine with 2 2 ethane 1 2 diylbis oxy diethanamine MS ESI m e 359 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.74 t J 5.59 Hz 2H 3.45 t J 5.76 Hz 2H 3.51 3.69 m 8H 6.04 s 1H 7.00 7.11 m 1H 7.15 dd J 7.97 4.58 Hz 1H 8.18 s 1H 8.25 dd J 4.75 1.70 Hz 1H 8.60 dd J 8.14 1.70 Hz 1H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 1B 89 mg 0.20 mmol in 1 2 dimethoxyethane 2 mL at 0 C. was added dropwise 3M phenylmagnesium bromide in diethyl ether 0.133 mL 0.40 mmol . The mixture was slowly warmed to room temperature and stirred for 15 minutes. To the solution was added dropwise 1M aqueous sodium hydroxide 2 mL 2 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 day and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 12 aqueous HCl 0.62 mL 2.25 mmol and heated at 90 C. for 4 hours. The mixture was concentrated and purified by reverse phase HPLC to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 289 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.78 s 1H 7.25 dd J 7.93 4.58 Hz 1H 7.54 7.65 m 3H 8.24 8.34 m 3H 8.44 s 1H 8.69 8.75 m 1H 12.32 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 32 replacing phenylmagnesium bromide with o tolylmagnesium bromide. MS ESI m e 303 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.45 s 3H 6.74 s 1H 7.17 dd J 7.93 4.58 Hz 1H 7.31 7.41 m 2H 7.45 t J 7.48 Hz 1H 7.55 d J 7.63 Hz 1H 8.28 dd J 4.58 1.53 Hz 1H 8.32 s 1H 8.55 d J 7.32 Hz 1H 12.28 s 1H 12.42 s 1H .

To a solution of 2 6 dichloro 4 iodo pyridine 1 g 3.65 mmol in 15 mL tetrahydrofuran was added 1M potassium tert butoxide 4.02 mL 4.02 mmol and the solution heated at reflux for 2 hours. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water and brine and dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude material was used without further purification. MS DCI m e 312.0 M H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 34A 2.6 g 8.35 mmol in 5 1 dimethoxyethane ethanol 90 mL was added 1 phenylsulfonyl 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 3.53 g 9.18 mmol 1M aqueous sodium carbonate 6.68 mL and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.29 g 0.42 mmol . The reaction was heated at 80 C. for 3 hours cooled and diluted with ethyl acetate. The solution was washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to give the title compound. MS ESI m e 442.0 M H .

To a suspension of EXAMPLE 34B 2.15 g 4.87 mmol in 60 mL ethanol water 5 1 was added powdered potassium hydroxide 1.09 g 19.46 mmol . The suspension was heated at 50 C. for 3 hours at which time the reaction was homogeneous. The solvent was removed and the crude material was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography Analogix280 gradient elution 20 100 ethyl acetate hexane to give the title compound. MS ESI m e 301.9 M H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 34C 0.13 g 0.43 mmol in 7 3 2 dimethoxyethane ethanol water 3 mL was added phenyl boronic acid 0.053 g 0.43 mmol 1M aqueous sodium carbonate 0.6 mL and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.015 g 0.022 mmol . The solution was heated to 160 C. in a CEM microwave 100 W for 20 minutes. The crude material was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash chromatography Analogix 280 gradient elution 5 75 ethyl acetate hexane gave the title compound. MS ESI m e 344.0 M H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 34D in 1 mL dichloromethane was added 1 mL trifluoroacetic acid. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 25 minutes and the solvent was removed. The crude material was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to give the title compound. MS ESI m e 287.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.70 s 1H 7.03 s 1H 7.11 7.30 m 1H 7.37 7.64 m 3H 7.76 8.01 m 2H 8.18 8.48 m 3H 11.52 s 1H 12.23 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 3 trifluoromethoxy phenylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 428.0 M H 

To a solution EXAMPLE 35A 0.065 g 0.152 mmol in 1 mL dichloromethane was added trifluoroacetic acid 1 mL and the solution stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the crude material dried over high vacuum for several hours to give the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. MS ESI m e 371.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.83 s 1H 7.13 7.37 m 2H 7.48 d J 8.14 Hz 1H 7.65 t J 7.97 Hz 1H 7.80 8.12 m 2H 8.21 8.55 m 3H 12.31 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 3 trifluoromethyl phenylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 428.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 36A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 355.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.85 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 7.25 dd J 7.97 4.58 Hz 2H 7.35 s 1H 7.63 7.94 m 3H 8.15 8.53 m 3H 12.33 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 3 dimethylphenylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 372.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 37A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 315.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.21 s 3H 2.32 s 3H 6.74 d J 1.70 Hz 1H 6.81 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 7.09 7.44 m 5H 8.15 8.54 m 3H 12.38 d J 2.03 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 methylphenyl boronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 358.0 M H 

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 38A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 301.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.35 s 3H 6.74 d J 1.70 Hz 1H 6.78 d J 1.70 Hz 1H 7.24 dd J 7.80 4.75 Hz 1H 7.29 7.46 m 4H 8.08 8.53 m 3H 12.36 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting benzo d 1 3 dioxol 5 ylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 388.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 39A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 331.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.07 6.19 m 2H 6.74 d J 1.70 Hz 1H 7.05 s 1H 7.07 s 1H 7.25 dd J 8.14 4.75 Hz 1H 7.44 dd J 8.14 2.03 Hz 1H 7.52 d J 2.03 Hz 1H 8.07 8.54 m 3H 12.36 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting thiophen 3 ylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 350.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 40A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 293.8 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.72 d J 1.70 Hz 1H 7.20 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 7.26 dd J 8.14 4.75 Hz 1H 7.73 dd J 5.09 3.05 Hz 1H 7.84 dd J 5.09 1.36 Hz 1H 8.19 8.50 m 4H 12.40 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting naphthalen 2 ylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 394.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 41A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 338.0 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.82 d J 1.59 Hz 1H 7.19 7.37 m 2H 7.61 dd J 6.35 3.17 Hz 2H 7.92 8.12 m 4H 8.35 d J 3.17 Hz 1H 8.38 8.48 m 2H 8.51 s 1H 12.19 12.57 m 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 3 chlorophenylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 378.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 42A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 321.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.79 s 1H 7.23 dd J 7.93 4.76 Hz 2H 7.53 t J 4.76 Hz 2H 7.82 7.97 m 1H 8.03 s 1H 8.19 8.51 m 3H 12.28 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 3 dimethoxyphenylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 404.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 43A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 347.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.68 3.76 m 3H 3.84 3.91 m 3H 6.89 s 1H 6.99 d J 1.59 Hz 1H 7.11 dd J 6.35 2.78 Hz 1H 7.18 7.24 m 2H 7.27 dd J 7.93 4.76 Hz 1H 8.25 8.45 m 3H 12.42 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 392.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 44A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 335.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.90 s 3H 6.64 6.83 m 1H 6.90 s 1H 7.06 7.47 m 4H 8.09 8.54 m 3H 12.30 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 fluoro 4 chlorophenylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 396.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 45A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 339.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.77 s 1H 6.95 s 1H 7.22 dd J 7.93 4.76 Hz 1H 7.45 dd J 8.53 1.78 Hz 1H 7.63 dd J 10.31 1.98 Hz 1H 7.76 t J 8.33 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 2.78 Hz 1H 8.27 8.41 m 2H 12.11 12.41 m 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 methoxy 5 trifluoromethyl phenylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 442.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 46A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 386.0 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.86 3.98 m 3H 6.73 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 6.88 s 1H 7.23 dd J 7.80 4.75 Hz 1H 7.35 d J 9.16 Hz 1H 7.83 d J 6.10 Hz 2H 8.24 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.28 8.39 m 2H 12.27 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 methoxy pyridin 3 ylboronic acid for phenyl boronic acid. MS ESI m e 375.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 47A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 318.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.84 4.03 m 3H 6.72 s 1H 6.89 s 1H 7.14 dd J 7.34 4.96 Hz 1H 7.23 dd J 7.93 4.76 Hz 1H 7.97 dd J 7.34 1.78 Hz 1H 8.17 8.40 m 4H 12.28 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 methyl 3 chlorophenylboronic acid for phenylboronic acid. MS ESI m e 392.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 48A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 335.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.29 2.39 m 3H 6.62 s 1H 6.70 s 1H 7.21 dd J 8.14 4.75 Hz 1H 7.29 7.44 m 2H 7.57 dd J 7.80 1.70 Hz 1H 8.22 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.26 8.39 m 2H 11.55 s 1H 12.22 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 3 chloro 2 methoxy pyridin 4 ylboronic acid for phenylboronic acid. MS ESI m e 549.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 49A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 352.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 4.01 s 3H 6.80 s 1H 6.88 s 1H 7.12 7.31 m 2H 8.17 8.28 m 2H 8.27 8.40 m 2H 12.27 d J 1.59 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 3 morpholinophenylboronic acid for phenylboronic acid. MS ESI m e 429.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 50A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 373.0 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.22 d 4H 3.77 d 4H 6.76 d J 1.59 Hz 1H 7.09 s 2H 7.25 dd J 8.13 4.56 Hz 1H 7.29 7.43 m 3H 8.14 8.56 m 3H 12.36 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 3 methylsulfonyl phenylboronic acid for phenylboronic acid. MS ESI m e 422.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 51A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 366.0 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.15 3.44 s 3H 6.85 s 1H 7.24 dd J 8.33 4.76 Hz 1H 7.29 7.43 m 1H 7.80 t J 7.93 Hz 1H 8.01 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 8.23 8.49 m 5H 12.31 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole for phenylboronic acid. MS ESI m e 334.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 52A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 277.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.61 s 1H 7.09 d J 1.59 Hz 1H 7.24 dd J 7.93 4.76 Hz 1H 8.24 8.46 m 5H 12.34 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 34D substituting 2 methylpyridin 3 yl boronic acid for phenylboronic acid and CombiPhos Pd6 CombiPhos Catalysts Inc Catalog AC2 for dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . MS DCI m e 359.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as the trifluoroacetate salt using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 35B substituting EXAMPLE 53A for EXAMPLE 35A. MS ESI m e 302.9 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.65 2.78 m 3H 6.89 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 7.01 s 1H 7.24 dd J 7.80 4.75 Hz 1H 7.82 dd J 7.97 5.59 Hz 1H 8.27 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.30 8.36 m 1H 8.40 d J 8.14 Hz 2H 8.80 dd J 5.42 1.70 Hz 1H 12.36 s 1H .

EXAMPLE 34B 0.2 g 0.45 mmol 3 methoxyaniline 0.8 g 6.5 mmol and p toluenesulfonic acid 0.086 g 0.45 mmol was heated to 150 C. for 30 minutes in a CEM microwave 100W. The crude material was diluted with a small amount of dichloromethane and placed directly onto a silica gel column and purified Analogix280 gradient elution 2 10 methanol dichloromethane to give the title compound. MS ESI m e 333.3 M H H NMR DMSO d 3.67 3.84 m 3H 6.28 s 1H 6.49 d J 6.71 Hz 1H 6.57 s 1H 7.07 7.20 m 3H 7.22 s 1H 7.83 d J 2.44 Hz 1H 8.17 8.31 m 3H 8.37 s 1H 11.72 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 54 substituting aniline for 3 methoxyaniline. MS ESI m e 303.3 M H H NMR DMSO d 6.30 s 1H 6.67 s 1H 6.89 s 1H 7.13 7.33 m 4H 7.66 s 1H 7.97 d J 2.03 Hz 1H 8.29 d J 5.09 Hz 2H 8.75 s 1H 10.08 s 1H 12.05 s 1H 

A suspension of 1 phenylsulfonyl 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 7.26 g 18.9 mmol 2 6 difluoro 4 iodopyridine 4.14 g 17.2 mmol 2004 1018 and 2007 5175 dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.482 g 0.687 mmol and 1M aqueous sodium carbonate 13.7 mL 13.7 mmol in dimethoxyethane ethanol water 7 2 3 80 mL was degassed and heated at 80 C. for 1.5 hours. After cooling the suspension was filtered washed with water and ether and concentrated to give the crude title compound. The filtrate was diluted with water and extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified using an ISCO Companion flash system eluting with dichloromethane hexane 7 3 to 9 1 to give the title compound. The combined products were used in the next step without further purification.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 56A 8.01 g 21.6 mmol and 20 aqueous sodium hydroxide 12 mL 21.6 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 75 mL was heated at 50 C. for 90 minutes. The mixture was concentrated and the residue triturated with water filtered and concentrated to give the title compound.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 56B 0.60 g 2.60 mmol and trans cyclohexane 1 4 diamine 1.04 g 9.08 mmol in ethanol 10 mL was heated at in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor at 170 C. for 80 minutes. After concentration the residue was treated with 20 brine and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were concentrated and purified on a 110 g silica column KP NH from Biotage eluting with ethyl acetate methanol 97 3 to 90 10 to give the title compound.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 56C 0.500 g 1.54 mmol and concentrated HCl 0.80 mL 26.3 mmol in tert butanol 10 mL was heated at 140 C. for 40 minutes in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor. The top layer was decanted and the viscous bottom layer was dissolved in methanol and treated with saturated sodium bicarbonate until at a pH of 4. The solution was concentrated and the residue purified by reversed phase HPLC on a Zorbax RX C18 column 250 21.2 mm 7 m particle size using a gradient of 10 100 acetonitrile 0.1 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid to give the title compound as the trifluoroacetic acid salt. MS DCI m z 324.2 M H . H NMR DMSO d 1.20 1.57 m 4H 1.84 2.13 m 4H 2.94 3.14 m 1H 3.51 3.69 m 1H 6.29 s 1H 6.44 s 1H 7.24 dd J 8.1 4.7 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.3 Hz 3H 8.20 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 8.27 dd J 8.2 1.2 Hz 1H 8.33 dd J 4.6 1.5 Hz 1H 12.38 s 1H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 56D 70.0 mg 0.127 mmol triethylamine 0.088 mL 0.64 mmol and cyclopropanesulfonyl chloride 0.014 mL 0.14 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 1.5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. Water was added and the suspension was filtered and purified by reversed phase HPLC to give the title compound as the trifluoroacetic acid salt. MS DCI m z 428.3 M H . H NMR DMSO d 0.89 0.98 m 4H 1.26 1.53 m 4H 1.91 2.04 m 4H 2.54 2.62 m 2H 3.13 3.24 m 1H 6.30 s 1H 6.53 s 1H 7.14 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.27 dd J 7.9 4.6 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 8.28 dd J 8.1 1.4 Hz 1H 8.34 dd J 4.7 1.4 Hz 1H 12.43 s 1H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 56D 70.0 mg 0.127 mmol triethylamine 0.088 mL 0.64 mmol N hydroxybenzotriazole 38.9 mg 0.254 mmol 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 48.7 mg 0.254 mmol and cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 0.012 mL 0.15 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. The mixture was concentrated and purified by reversed phase HPLC to give the title compound as a trifluoroacetic acid salt. MS DCI m z 392.2 M H H NMR CDOD 0.69 0.77 m 2H 0.80 0.88 m 2H 1.41 1.61 m 5H 1.95 2.06 m 2H 2.09 2.20 m 2H 3.59 3.75 m 2H 4.80 s 1H 4.91 s 1H 7.34 dd J 7.9 4.9 Hz 1H 8.10 s 1H 8.36 dd J 4.9 1.2 Hz 1H 8.41 dd J 8.1 1.4 Hz 1H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 56D 70.0 mg 0.127 mmol triethylamine 0.088 mL 0.64 mmol N hydroxybenzotriazole 38.9 mg 0.254 mmol 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 48.7 mg 0.254 mmol and 1 4 fluorobenzyl azetidine 3 carboxylic acid 31.9 mg 0.152 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by reversed phase HPLC to give the title compound as a trifluoroacetic acid salt. MS APCI m z 515.5 M H H NMR DMSO d 1.23 1.46 m 4H 1.74 1.93 m 2H 1.94 2.09 m 2H 3.38 4.30 m 7H 4.37 s 2H 6.28 s 1H 6.44 s 1H 7.17 s brd 1H 7.24 dd J 8.1 4.7 Hz 1H 7.30 t J 8.9 Hz 2H 7.54 dd J 8.7 5.3 Hz 2H 8.14 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 8.20 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 8.27 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 8.33 dd J 4.7 1.4 Hz 1H 10.30 s brd 1H 12.39 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 32 replacing phenylmagnesium bromide with p tolylmagnesium bromide. MS ESI m e 303 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.41 s 3H 6.74 s 1H 7.24 dd J 7.93 4.88 Hz 1H 7.39 d J 7.93 Hz 2H 8.17 d J 7.63 Hz 2H 8.31 dd J 4.58 1.53 Hz 1H 8.42 d J 1.22 Hz 1H 8.70 d J 7.32 Hz 1H 12.31 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 32 replacing phenylmagnesium bromide with m tolylmagnesium bromide. MS ESI m e 303 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.44 s 3H 6.76 s 1H 7.25 dd J 7.93 4.88 Hz 1H 7.39 7.53 m 2H 8.02 8.14 m 2H 8.31 dd J 4.58 1.53 Hz 1H 8.43 s 1H 8.69 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 12.28 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared using the procedure described for EXAMPLE 32 replacing phenylmagnesium bromide with 2 3 dimethylphenyl magnesium bromide. MS ESI m e 317 M H H NMR DMSO d 2.29 s 3H 2.34 s 3H 6.73 s 1H 7.16 dd J 7.93 4.88 Hz 1H 7.25 t J 7.48 Hz 1H 7.32 7.38 m 2H 8.27 dd J 4.73 1.37 Hz 1H 8.31 s 1H 8.54 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 12.27 s 1H .

Example 1B 889 mg 2.00 mmol 3 aminomethyl phenol 739 mg 6.00 mmol triethylamine 0.836 ml 6.00 mmol and dioxane 8 ml were placed in a pressure tube. The mixture was heated at 100 C. overnight. The cooled reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. Flash chromatography gradient elution ethyl acetate hexane 5 50 gave the title compound.

To a mixture of Example 63A 0.510 g 1.05 mmol tert butyl 3 hydroxypropylcarbamate 0.275 g 1.57 mmol and triphenylphosphine 0.412 g 1.57 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 13 ml was added dropwise diisopropyl azodicarboxylate DIAD 0.305 ml 1.57 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and then concentrated in vacuo. Flash chromatography isolation gradient elution ethyl acetate hexane 0 50 gave the title compound.

A mixture of Example 63B 600 mg 0.93 mmol in methanol 12 mL and NaOH aqueous solution 1M 4 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The mixture was filtered and the solid was washed with water and dried in vacuo to give the title compound.

To Example 63C 297 mg 0.59 mmol was added aqueous HCl 12 M 8.0 ml and the mixture was heated at 90 C. for 5 hours. The cooled reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as an HCl salt. MS ESI m e 391 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.94 2.11 m 1H 2.86 3.02 m 2H 4.00 4.11 m 2H 4.58 4.73 m 2H 6.12 6.53 m 1H 6.87 d J 8.82 Hz 1H 6.96 7.06 m 2H 7.16 7.37 m 2H 7.82 8.10 m 3H 8.35 s 1H 8.50 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 12.63 s 1H .

Cdc7 BEV coexpressed huCDC7 DBF4 is prepared internally. Cdc7 assays are conducted as follows with final concentrations as listed. In 384 well v bottom polypropylene plates 6 L compound 2 DMSO is mixed with 6 L of Cdc7 2 ug mL and Jerini peptide substrate A All biotin Clinker TPSDSLIYDDGLS 2 M followed by immediate initiation with 6 L P ATP 1 M 20 mCi mol using a reaction buffer comprising 25 mM HEPES pH 7.5 1 mM DTT 10 mM MgCl 100 M NaVO 0.075 mg ml Triton X 100. Reactions are quenched after 1 hr by the addition of 90 L stop buffer 50 mM EDTA 2M NaCl . 85 L of the stopped reactions are transferred to 384 well streptavidin coated plates FlashPlate Plus Perkin Elmer incubated 30 minutes at room temperature and washed 3 times with 0.05 Tween 20 PBS using an ELX 405 automated plate washer BioTek and counted on a TopCount Scintillation Plate Reader Packard . IC50 values are determined via non linear regression fitting of enzyme inhibition data and corresponding Ki values are generated assuming ATP competitive equilibrium inhibition and using the experimentally determined apparent ATP Km of 0.7 M as determined using the above assay condition but varying ATP .

Table 1 depicts enzyme inhibition data K for exemplary compounds. In Table 1 A represents a Kof less than 10 nM and B represents a Kof between 10 nM and 100 nM.

Compounds of the present invention assessed by the above described assays were found to have Cdc7 kinase inhibiting activity.

All publication and patent applications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

