---

title: Node excitation driving function measures for cerebral cortex network analysis of electroencephalograms
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for estimating brain activity of a human subject from the measurement of electroencephalograms (EEG) are disclosed. In one method, cortical neural sources in the cerebral cortex of the brain of the subject are specified. Next, using a model of the human brain which treats the cortical neural sources as nodes in a cortical source network, cortical source activations are estimated from the measured electroencephalograms for each of the cortical neural sources in the network for the subject. Source network modulation control signals are then determined for the subject from the cortical source activations which are assumed to correspond to control modulators in the human brain. And a network activity classification is computed from determined modulation control signals for the subject. The innovative technology may be included in an automated aiding system in the electronic aiding of tasks performed by human operators.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09107595&OS=09107595&RS=09107595
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09107595
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140929
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 499 625 filed Sep. 29 2014 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ESTIMATING CEREBRAL CORTICAL SOURCE ACTIVATIONS FROM ELECTROENCEPHALOGRAMS herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to determining brain activity from scalp site recorded electroencephalograms.

Brain activity is commonly determined from electroencephalograms EEG measurements from multiple electrodes positioned on scalp sites over the subject s head with signals from the electrodes fed to an EEG data collection system. Following artifact rejection typically performed signal analysis of electroencephalograms EEG measurements using short term Fourier analysis or wavelet analysis produces a time frequency spectral data analysis for the sites. The spectral results may be decomposed into spectrum band power spectrum coherence computed from the power spectral matrix and causality for the coherence between the sites as a network such as Granger causality.

Further refinement in decompositions where there is spectrum coherence as a measure of mutual synchronicity among sites may be decomposed into different measures of the Granger causality for the direction of information flow among sites. These measures include the directed coherence DC which is defined as the ratio of the spectral transfer function between two sites and the square root of the auto power of one of the sites and still further the directed transfer function DTF .

In further developments graph theory measures are applied for analysis of the sites as nodes of a network by using small world network metrics computed from the cross correlation matrices for the sites such as node degree average number of connections nodes clustering coefficient ratio of existing connections to all possible diameter shortest path between nodes and efficiency measure of number of parallel connections among nodes among others. In experimental studies statistical analysis may be applied to these measures by treatments for study results.

While these conventional methods are of interest to the research community they are commonly of low statistical power as shown by sometimes conflicts in replication of study results. This is because the statistics used in these studies analyzes the power spectrums for the sites and the coherences between the sites or derivations thereof as separate statistical measures. This conventional methodology can result in a large number of measures for instance there are at least 2030 separate measures for a study with a 64 electrode scalp site EEG data collection system an analysis of signals from N scalp sites conducted separately would involve N power spectrums and N N 1 2 coherence spectrums . Furthermore the analyses are commonly conducted separately by frequency bands of which there are at least four considered in the EEG spectrum delta alpha beta and gamma although the study may be limited to a single band. This large number of measures severally reduces the overall statistical power of any analysis and increases the family wise Type I error that is error in accepting the analysis as significant . Of further concern is that these measures are all from same data source and being highly correlated are redundantly a single measure it is suspect to include all as separate dependent measures in conventional statistical methods such as multiple analysis of variance thereby increasing the probability that results are incorrectly significant by chance alone.

Therefore if measurement of electroencephalograms EEG with a scalp site electrode EEG data collection system is to be useful in real life applications such as in moving vehicles with operator control there is a need in the art for a method and apparatus for generating a global measure for electroencephalograms EEG analysis. Further there is an advantage in the extension of such a global measure to cerebral sources of the scalp site electroencephalograms EEG with the sources located by cortical structure that form cerebral networks relatable to cognitive functions.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods and apparatuses for estimating brain activity of a human subject from the measurement of electroencephalograms EEG using scalp site electrodes attached to the subject s scalp and an EEG data collection system. In an exemplary embodiment a method comprises specifying a plurality of cortical neural sources in the cerebral cortex of the brain of the subject using a model of the human brain which treats the cortical neural sources as nodes in a cortical source network estimating cortical source activations from the measured electroencephalograms for each of the cortical neural sources in the network for the subject determining source network modulation control signals for the subject from the cortical source activations which are assumed to correspond to control modulators in the human brain and computing a network activity classification from determined modulation control signals for the subject.

Estimating the cortical source activations may include applying a node excitation driving function where each node is assumed to constitute an activation function formed from weighted inputs a node excitation driving function and an emitter function formed from weighted outputs. The node excitation driving function can be computed from a multivariate spectral analysis of the network node excitations where the spectral analysis follows from autoregressive coefficients and the noise covariance resulting in node power spectrums and inter node transfer functions. For example the node excitation driving function may be computed as the ratio of the node partial spectral power and the node activation function and the node activation function is computed as the sum of the spectral power inputs weighted by the corresponding normalized transfer functions. The modulation control signals of the network control modulation nodes are determined from the network node excitation driving functions. The network activity classification can be made as to the level of activity from the modulation control signals of the network control modulation nodes as derived from the network source node excitation driving functions for the cortical source activations.

The network activity classification can also be made as to task nature from the topological organization as derived from the network source node excitation driving functions for the source activations. For instance the networks are cortical attention networks include task default task focus task involvement or any combination thereof. The network activity classification is made to task functional activity by mapping the network cortical sources to the cortical structure of the brain as cortical functional network nodes related to cognitive functions including at least to the structural level of the Brodmann Area regions of the cortex with associated cognitive functions. And the network activity classification might be made to task functional activity level from the cortical structures of the cortical functional network as derived from the network source node excitation driving functions for the corresponding source activations.

In a further embodiment an apparatus having a plurality of electronics modules to execute the aforementioned method is provided. Also the apparatus may be incorporated as a component of an automated task aider used to estimate the task attention of the subject.

An innovative methodology for estimating brain activity of a human subject from the measurement of electroencephalograms EEG with a scalp site electrode EEG data collection system where multiple electrodes are positioned on scalp sites on the head of the subject is disclosed. The methodology uses a novel model of the human brain which treats a network of cerebral cortical sources in the brain as nodes and that assumes that node excitation driving functions for the nodes can be determined from EEG measurements. The node excitation driving functions are computed from independent component analysis and parameterized by multivariate spectrum analysis of the time series network that is formed by the nodes of the cortical network. The spectrum measures of the cortical network are reduced to a global measure of the network node effects by combining the node power and the coherences between the nodes as a measure of the degree that the node oscillations maintain a fixed relation to each other into a single node excitation function for each node.

Depending upon the value of the network modulation the excitation functions of the nodes may be used as network metrics to determine the state of the cognitive processing by the network where the cortical sources are assumed to be cortical structures relatable to cognitive functions. Further source network modulation control signals are determined from the cortical source activations which are assumed to correspond to control modulators in the brain. And a network activity classification is established from determined modulation control signals.

A key advantage of this invention over the prior art is that a global measure is generated for the node network along with a single effect measure for each node thereby increasing the statistical power of the application and that the global measure is relatable to cognitive functions through the node effect measures. On that basis one exemplary application is as a component of an automated aiding system in the electronic aiding of tasks performed by human operators by providing an estimate of brain functions from electroencephalogram measurements.

Referring to a plurality of scalp site electrodes labeled E E E . . . in the figure are attached to the subject s scalp for recording electrical signals collected by the electrodes . In actuality ten 10 twenty 20 or even more electrodes are typically attached to the scalp . Conducting gel may be further applied at the electrode sites to help to conduct electrical signals from the scalp to the electrodes . The electrodes are placed in a generally distributed manner at spaced locations across the surface of the scalp . The electrodes may be sewn or otherwise provided in a fabric cap not shown which the subject wears. Alternatively the electrodes may be removably attached to the scalp with a glue or adhesive which can be washed away with a suitable solvent such as acetone.

In one embodiment the electroencephalograms are collected from scalp surface electrode sites according to the International 10 20 electrode system standard or extensions thereof which are commonly used for locating electrode placement on the scalp in preparation for EEG recordings. The EEG electrodes measure electrical signals produced by the brain neurons near the scalp which originate in the cerebral cortex of the brain. The cerebral cortex is the outermost layered structure of neural tissue of the brain. The cerebral cortex plays an important role in many cognitive functions including memory attention perception awareness thought language and consciousness.

Electrical signals detected by the scalp site electrodes are feed to a computing device for signal source analysis . The analysis models a cortical network to multiple network modulators in the subject s brain. The cortical network is composed a plurality of interconnected cortical sources labeled S S S . . . in the figure . The cortical sources represent discrete groups of neurons in the cortex of the subject s brain which have nearly identical receptive fields and function and that grouped together are assumed to be located in Brodmann Areas in the brain.

As known Brodmann Areas are regions of the cerebral cortex having the same cytoarchitectural organization of neurons as originally defined and numbered by German neurologist Dr Korbinian Brodmann in 1909. There are some 52 Brodmann areas which have been defined in human and non human primates brains associated with various cognitive functions although not all are present or used in human brains. So called Brodmann atlases or Brodmann maps are available which depict the various Brodmann areas in the brain and indicate their functions.

Brodmann Areas have been mapped to specific locations in the human brain. One way to do this is using Talairach space a known 3 dimensional coordinate system of the human brain which is used to map the location of brain structures independent from individual differences in the size and overall shape of the brain with Brodmann areas as labels for both lateral and median surface brain regions as derived by Jean Talairach and Gabor Szikla in 1967 . Talairach space represents a standardized atlas or grid for mapping the human brain which defines standard anatomical landmarks that could be identified on different individuals. An individual s brain image obtained through Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI positron emission tomography PET and other brain imaging methods can be mapped to this standard Talairach space using conventional software applications. For example atlases such as the Talairach Daemon and CARET Computerized Anatomical Reconstruction Toolkit applications can approximate between three dimensional locations in the brain and Brodmann Areas. Another way is through Montreal Neurological Institute MNI standard brain coordinate system which is based on studies of Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI data for a large number of persons. This latter technique is supposedly more representative of the population. There are various known functions for converting MNI standard brain coordinate system to Talairach space.

In the present methodology not all Brodmann areas need to be used as cortical sources . One may choose to select a subset of one or more Brodmann areas which correspond to one or more cognitive functions of interest. The cortical sources which are assumed to correspond to Brodmann area locations in the subject s brain can be mapped to a standard cortical space coordinate system like Talairach space or MNI standard brain coordinate system. In further embodiments the cortical sources may be derived in a functional MRI brain study for the individual subject to identify regions linked to critical cognitive functions such as speaking moving sensing or planning among others. In turn the individual results may be again mapped to a standard cortical space for location as Brodmann Areas.

Connectivity of the cortical sources is identified as signals . Because of this interconnectivity the scalp site electrodes are believed to measure electrical signals which actually represent the combination of multiple signals originating from various cortical sources in the brain.

Accordingly to the model each of the cortical sources of the network can be considered a node and that a driving function exists for that node which can characterize the effect of the interconnectivity among the various modulating sources in the network as further explained herein.

The network of modulators is composed of independent modulating sources labeled M M . . . in the figure within the brain. Signals from the modulating sources affect the cortical sources . At this time there is no way of specifically knowing the exact source network modulators in the human brain only of determining the level of the control signals based on the novel independent component methodology applied to the cortical source driving functions. With a greater understanding of the interworking of the human mind in the future perhaps the specific source network modulators can be more accurately determined. Nonetheless the innovative methodology provides a much greater understanding of the influence of the cognitive modulators on EEG measurements for an individual.

The various lobes and major fissures of the underlying brain are also illustrated in the figure for reference. The human brain is separated into different region or lobes which include the frontal temporal central parietal and occipital lobes. The Rolandic fissure is the central sulcus or fold in the brain it separates the parietal lobe from the frontal lobe. The Sylvian fissure is the most prominent lateral sulcus in the brain it divides both the frontal lobe and parietal lobe above from the temporal lobe below. It is present in both hemispheres of the brain but is typically longer in the left hemisphere in most people.

Two anatomical landmarks are used for positioning the EEG electrodes on the scalp. These include the Nasion at the front of the skull and the Inion at the back. The Nasion is the distinctly depressed area between the eyes just above the bridge of the nose and the Inion is the lowest point of the skull from the back of the head and is normally indicated by a prominent bump. The projections of the Nasion at the front of the skull and the Inion at the back are illustrated for reference purposes in the figure.

In this electrode system the electrode sites are positioned with respect to the sagittal plane i.e. the vertical plane that dividing the body into right and left halves at 20 intervals along the scalp mid line Nasion to Inion distance with the frontal site a distance of 10 from the Nasion and located in the coronal plane at 20 intervals along the scalp between points just anterior to the tragus of each ear with the most lateral site a distance of 10 from the tragus. The most forward and lateral sites define a horizontal plane for reference in electrode placement.

The sites are labeled by letters correspond to the underlying cortical lobe structure such as frontal F temporal T central C parietal P and occipital O and by number corresponding to distance from the horizontal plane with the even numbers on the right side of the head RHS and the odd numbers on the left side LHS . It actuality there exists no central lobe but the letter C is used according to the standard. The identifier z zero refers to the midline axis of the head. The sites Fp Fp identify frontal polar sites. The sites A and A represent the earlobes and are for mastoid references used in unipolar electrode montages. A site labeled G may be used for the amplifier ground in the EEG collection system.

EEG recording caps not shown of elastic lightweight fabric that snugly fit over the subject s head are commercially available with electrodes and shielded recording wires for electrode placement in both standard montages and higher density electrode configurations with scalp site preparation and conducting gel inserted at the electrode sites after fitting. The electrodes may be combined in different montages for recording purposes depending upon the purpose of the EEG study. In bipolar recordings the electrodes are linked in pairs to the two inputs of differential amplifiers and the recordings are the voltage differences between the pairs. In unipolar referential recordings the electrodes are linked to one input of the associated differential amplifiers and the other input of all amplifiers are linked to a separate reference electrode either one of the mastoid sites or the ear lobes or the average of the two or a separate site on the scalp or in some cases the face or body the recordings are of the voltage differences between the exploratory scalp electrodes and that of the reference. In a further development the recordings may be added or subtracted in different combinations for a change in reference voltage and bipolar or unipolar configurations depending upon the focus of the study.

In a further embodiment the recorded EEG is reduced to a set of cerebral sources generating the scalp voltage recordings as a set of mixed source signals.

The scalp signal windowed time samples can be corrected for the additions of artifact signals from extra cerebral sources such as eye movements muscle movements or the environment based on signal waveform extremes of excessive amplitude and trend among others and on excessive low frequency power contents from eye movements or high frequency from muscle.

For most applications this preprocessing removes obvious artifacts however a residual usually remains in the signals. The plot of samples in the upper left of the figure shows three signals x x x measured by the electrodes E E E respectively over time.

The processed signals are next analyzed to determine a set of both cerebral S S and possible extra cerebral sources such as eye movements muscle movements or the environment S for the scalp voltages where the outputs of such added together generate the voltage at a scalp site N . In some embodiments this determination can be done by blind source separation following principal component analysis of the signals. For example a method for deriving a set of temporal independent sources equal in number to the scalp sites where the sources are separable by their time wise signal amplitude probability moments commonly in the practice this is separation by the probability density function PDF of the source signal amplitude 4moment kurtosis for function peakness from that for a Gaussian distribution. The separation method produces 440 a set of temporally separated sources independent components with time wise signals in plot over the sample window by un mixing of the scalp signals that can used to separate the cerebral sources S S . . . from any extra cerebral sources S by signal kurtosis and spectrum and by source location. In this application the power spectral density PSD may be computed from the source time wise signals and the resulting spectrum distributions shown in plot used to prune the artifact sources from the cerebral sources. To this purpose the kurtosis for an EEG process is commonly Gaussian and the spectrum density that of Brownian noise 1 frequency peaks may be superimposed for localized theta alpha or beta band level processing depending upon the source location.

For example the spectrum density for an ocular source is commonly peaked about 2 Hz while that for a muscle source is commonly peaked above 30 Hz. Further pruning can be performed by considering source location relative to the skull in which the source is located by triangulation of the potential from the source s received at the scalp sites. In some embodiments a 3 shell spherical head model or even a 4 shell spherical head model for the scalp skull cerebrospinal fluid and homogeneous cortex is of the art used to compute the source potential for a forward problem solution at the scalp sites for a dipole field source. In this process cerebral potential sources locate within the cortex while the ocular potential sources locate about the ocular orbit regions in the front of the skull and the muscle potential sources outside the skull here with cortical source activation signals y and y and extra cerebral source activation signal y. The resulting set of cerebral sources may be further reduced to a working set by clustering adjacent sources together as a separate source based on proximity of spectrums and locations in a source feature space

The electroencephalogram EEG may generally be represented as a white noise driven autoregressive process in which the process output is the weighted sum of prior outputs and a white noise input.

The inputs to the nodes are the power of a noise covariance c as weighted by a transfer function h for the node connection as determined by an autoregressive analysis. For example the node N is shown with a recursive feedback loop as input of that node s output and with inputs from the outputs from the other nodes . Here for the recursive loop for the node N the transfer function is denoted as h and the noise covariance as c. The transfer function and covariance from node N which are input to node N are h c respectively. Similarly the transfer function and covariance from node N which are input to node N are h c respectively.

Each node is assumed to receive modulator signals m from each and every modulator. For instance it is assumed that node N receives modulator signals m m from modulators M and M respectively. In the model illustrated in this schematic the modulators M M . . . control the network by the frequency and power of the noise source signals . The other nodes N N etc. in the network can be similarly characterized as this node in this manner.

The autoregressive process model represents the time varying processes of a given cerebral cortex node some of which specifies the output variable depends on its own previous values. Here it is assumed that the output Yi of the given node Si is the sum of the random noise input Ni the weighted consecutive prior outputs of the node output in a recursive feedback loop and the weighted consecutive prior outputs of a plurality of other nodes Sj each with its own output Yk . The weights are autoregressive coefficients for the process and the number of prior outputs is determined by the order of the process. The multivariate autoregressive process may be applied to the signals for each node in the network with the results of a set of autoregressive coefficients and noise covariance for the interconnections among the nodes including the auto recursive feedback loop. The spectral quantities for a multivariate spectral analysis are derived in the frequency domain from the estimated model coefficients and the covariance of the noise. The spectral power and directed causality measures of the multivariate signals are readily computed from the spectral transfer function and covariance. Here in this representation of the feedback process the time delay by element Zof the kth output sample Y is weighted by the a th factor before summation with the summation to the Pth order of the process.

An important aspect of the methodology is the concept of a node excitation driving function which follows from considering the network source nodes as neural network processors each with an activation function formed from weighted inputs and a node excitation driving function that generates the partial power for the node from the activation function. The node inputs are the cross power and auto power spectrums and the weights are the normalized transfer functions derived from the multivariate autoregressive analysis of the network.

In a further embodiment the set of node driving functions may be used as a database for analysis of the source network activities at different levels such as the network performance state the task nature of the network from the topological organization and the cognitive functioning of the network.

In step the topological organization of the network functionality may be determined from the cross correlation matrix of the node driving functions. Research has shown that cortical networks may be described as small world networks mathematical graphs in which most nodes are not neighbors of one another but can be reached from every other by a small number of steps the typical distance the number of steps between two nodes in such scale free networks is proportionally to the logarithm of the number of network nodes. These graphs may be classified by two independent structural features the clustering coefficient and the average node to node distance average shortest path length . Apparently cortical networks tend to have a small average shortest path length and a large clustering coefficient since they consists of groups of shortest paths nodes centered on hub nodes with a high degree i.e. number of connections. Another measure is the efficiency of the network in the parallel transfer of information. These topological measures may correspond with the task nature of the network. For example a default network would have less clustering and efficiency and be more spread out in a form of scale free network a task focused network would be spread out but with high degree and high diameter as well as high clustering and high efficiency and a task response network would be a small world network that has less degree and diameter and greater clustering and efficiency. This determination may be used to cluster localized sources into a single grand source of functionality.

In the remaining steps the cognitive processing of the network is determined first by finding the functional activity level of the network nodes and from that the cognitive functions as determined from the mapping of the source nodes to the brain structure in particular to the cortical Brodmann Areas with known brain functions. In step the active source nodes of the network are determined from the statistics of the node driving function database in particular from the average and variance as a function of spectrum frequency where the more active nodes will have spectrum peaks toward the upper bounds of the confidence intervals for the dataset.

In step the nodes are mapped to cortical Brodmann Areas in Talairach head space by their locations in the 4 shell spherical head model. Brodmann Areas are regions of the cerebral cortex having the same cytoarchitectural organization of neurons as defined and numbered by Brodmann in 1909 . Again Talairach space is a 3 dimensional coordinate system of the human brain which map the location of brain structures using Brodmann areas as labels for both lateral and median surface brain regions as derived by Talairach and Szikla in 1967. In this process the spherical head model may be mapped to a standard cortical space reconstructed from Montreal Neurological Institute MNI MRI data and in turn to the Talairach space for location as Brodmann Areas.

For reference the cortical lobes are also indicated frontal central parietal occipital and temporal along with the orbital frontal. In this schematic the sources S S S etc. are mapped to the median surface however mapping may occur to the lateral surface as well depending upon the source locations. In the schematic figure cerebral source S is mapped to BA S to BA and S to BA and in the mapping take on the properties of the area. Here in the figure the modulators M and M are shown located to the limbic region in particular the thalamus as sources gating the control signals. But the locations of other modulators will likely be different.

In step of the cerebral source nodes are mapped to cortical brain functions that are known for the corresponding Brodmann Areas. There is evidence that the occipital somatosensory and temporal cortical lobes are organized as processors for primary sensory areas vision BA somatosensory BA temporal BA for auditory BA for gustatory and secondary sensory areas vision BA somatosensory BA temporal BA for auditory association areas vision BA somatosensory BA temporal BA along with multiple association areas in the parietal and temporal BA which in turn lead to the frontal lobe for evaluation BA with pre motor frontal eye fields for directed vision BA and secondary motor BA and primary motor BA for action. Specialized temporal and frontal areas process language understanding BA and generation BA . These functions may be specialized further by cortical hemisphere. In addition the anterior cingulate is believed involved in error detection BA and the posterior cingulate in emotion BA . Further involved are the limbic system regions of entorhinal cortex BA perirhinal cortex BA and the ectorhinal area BA of the perirhinal cortex among others for spatial memory and orientation. Of course this is not a complete rendition of all brain areas and associated functions. Although these are coarse representations of functions considering the size of the Brodmann Areas probably each containing millions of neurons the mapping provides a basis for considering the general nature of cortical processing.

In step the cortical brain functions of the source node network are mapped to a cognitive processing network for classification of attention to a task. In this process the modulator sources are a measure of the strength of attention while the network topology corresponds to the cognitive involvement. As has been mentioned above a default network corresponding to self referral has less clustering and efficiency and is more spread out in a form of scale free network a task focused network would be spread out but with high degree and high diameter as well as high clustering and high efficiency and a task response network would perhaps be a small world network that has less degree and diameter and greater clustering and efficiency. Further the active sources driving the network determine the state of task attention from the corresponding Brodmann Areas as to sensory processing and as visual or auditory association evaluation and motor involvement.

The aforementioned methodology was applied to the scalp electroencephalogram data collected from fourteen subjects in a temporal discrimination experiment conducted at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. The initial data was reported by Hairston W D Letowski T R McDowell K 2010 in a report titled Low level auditory processing as a predictive tool for within and cross model performance presented at the 27Army Science Conference Orlando Fla. in which the subjects judged which of two consecutive stimuli were longer in duration. In one trial the stimuli were auditory while in another they were visual a neutral baseline trial without a stimulus was used as control. One of the stimuli of the consecutive pair was randomly set at 250 ms while the other was 400 ms in duration they were separated by a 250 ms interval resulting in a 900 ms time period for the test stimulus on set to the response stimulus off set. The subjects had two seconds to respond by button push as to which was longer.

For analysis by the innovative methodology the scalp electroencephalogram dataset was processed to compute independent cerebral sources from which the node excitation driving functions and corresponding modulators were computed for network and statistical analysis. As shown in the flow chart of the process was performed in two stages with the first a pre processing stage to compute the cerebral sources for the EEG data base by first filtering to remove baseline and preclude aliasing for second stage down sampling in step removal of obviously extreme artifacts from the EEG in step application of independent component analysis for the scalp voltage sources based on kurtosis of the amplitude probability density functions in step the pruning of sources of remaining artifacts from the source set in step and the saving of the resulting un mixing matrix for the cerebral sources in step .

In the second processing stage the node driving functions and resulting modulators were computed for the sources from the EEG database for the test time period windows. In this stage the task windows were determined in step from the event marker channel and the isolated EEG segments were filtered and obvious artifacts removed in step as in the pre processing stage the source activation signals were computed from the resulting EEG segments using the un mixing matrixes of the pre processing stage for the sources in step the activation signals were grouped by the task events in step the multivariate spectrum analysis was computed for the event activation segments following down sampling in step the node driving functions were accordingly computed for the sources from the spectrum measures in step and in turn the modulators for the source network in step . This was repeated in step for all EEG test period windows in step and the resulting functions parameterized for network and statistical analysis in step . Of further interest for analysis are the differences between the driving functions by events and those between the modulator signals by events as well. These steps are described in detail in the following.

The data set was processed by an automated computer program incorporating script files calling EEGLAB Matlab open source routines available for electrophysiological signal processing as follows 

The data set was processed by an automated computer program with laboratory written Matlab routines using the original data set as follows 

The network parameters for the cerebral sources as a node network were computed from the node driving functions as follows 

For reference examples of spectrum measures resulting from the multivariate spectrum analysis of the source activations are provided in the following spectrum plots for two cerebral sources selected by activation strength of one subject in the visual trials. All plots are for the stimulus and response events plotted from 0 to 40 Hz unless indicated elsewise. Considering the transfer functions computed from the autoregressive coefficients the transfer function magnitude and phase frequency plots for the recursive loop of the first source IC strongest source are shown in and respectively. Further the transfer function magnitude and phase frequency plots for the connectivity from the first source IC to a second source IC are shown in and respectively. The figures show practically the same spectrum for the first source in the stimulus and response events with the recursive loop transfer function strongly peaked maxima at about 10 Hz and negative phase while the connectivity transfer function is practically flat with unity magnitude and zero phase. For this source the recursive loop is amplifying at about 10 Hz feeding the noise power back to the source while the connectivity acts as a short passing noise power without effect.

Considering the power spectrums computed from the transfer functions and the noise covariance the auto power frequency spectrum for the first source is plotted in while the cross power spectrum for the connectivity from the first source to the second source is plotted in . The auto powers for the first source are practically the same for the stimulus and response events both peaking in power spectrum density at about 10 Hz. The cross powers for the source connectivity are similar both peaking about 10 Hz but the power spectrum density is much more for the stimulus event than for the response event.

Next considering the normalized directed transfer functions the function for the recursive loop of the first source is plotted in while that for connectivity from the first source to the second source is plotted in . The directed transfer functions for the recursive loop are practically the same for both the stimulus and response events with a peak at about 10 Hz the directed transfer functions for the source connectivity are also practically the same except here the functions have a valley minima at about 10 Hz. The plots are nearly mirror images with the transfer functions for the recursive loop amplifying at about 10 Hz while those for the source connection suppressing power at that frequency.

Considering the source activation function the function for the first source is plotted in while that for the second source is plotted in . The activation functions for the first source are practically the same for both the stimulus and response events peaking at about 10 Hz while the activation functions for the second source are dissimilar with that for the stimulus event peaked at about 10 Hz and that for the response flat.

Looking at the source partial power the power for the first source is plotted in while that for the second source is plotted in . The partial power for the first source are practically the same for both the stimulus and response events peaking at about 10 Hz while the partial powers for the second source are dissimilar with that for the stimulus event peaked at about 10 Hz and that for the response flat.

Now considering the source node excitation driving function the function for the first source is plotted in while that for the second source is plotted in . The functions are smoothed by a 5order polynomial fit for the stimulus event solid line and the response event dashed line plotted from 0 to 40 Hz. The driving functions for the first source are practically the same for both events peaking at about 10 Hz and with a valley at about 20 Hz while the functions for the second source are dissimilar with that for the stimulus event fairly flat and that for the response with a valley at about 7 Hz. In summary it appears that the first source is driving the network while the second source is passive and more so in regard to the response event.

Reported are the results for the statistical analyses of the modulator source activations the node driving functions and the family wise significance of the tests.

Frequency plots for three modulators resulting from an independent component analysis of all source driving functions are shown in as smoothed curves averaged across test participants for the baseline b stimulus s and response r events of the three test conditions auditory neutral visual plotted from 0 to 50 Hz. The plots for the stimulus and response events in the auditory and visual conditions are similar in a cyclic pattern of roughly 1 cycle over 40 Hz centered on a spectrum peak about 20 Hz however the spectrums are more erratic for the baseline event in the auditory and visual conditions and all events in the neutral condition since no stimulus was presented in this condition as a control. The modulators are ordered by variance as computed in the independent component analysis with the first modulator having the strongest variance. The plots show that the modulators S and S exhibits variations between the events for the visual and auditory conditions in the 15 25 Hz range but not for the neutral condition and that the remaining source show little variation for all conditions. shows plots of the activation differences computed as the absolute difference in consecutive event polynomial curve smoothed activations summed over the spectrum frequency. The plots show valleys in the 30 Hz region for the base to stimulus base to response and stimulus to response differences.

A 4order polynomial curve was fitted to the modulator source excitation spectrums for all subjects higher orders resulted in ill condition fits. Application of a Pearson Correlation bivariate test showed that the coefficient poles tend to correlated by source but not necessarily across sources however poles for a source are significantly correlated at the 0.01 level 2 tailed . Applying a Factor analysis for dimension reduction results in a single component extracted for each source based on Eigenvalues greater than 1 with at least 95 95.02 97.76 97.48 of the variance explained. The source factors were statistically analyzed separately for the experimental treatments and for the event cases. Since this resulted in one source as significant the poles of that source were analyzed in turn in the same manner.

The coefficients poles used in polynomial smoothing of the primary modulator activation were statistically analyzed with a general linear model multivariate statistical test with subject dummy variables included for the repeated measures.

The statistical test is significant by treatments for condition Pillai s trace 0.584 F 25.797 df 10 p 0.000 trial trace 0.352 F 33.968 df 5 p 0.000 and event trace 0.470 F 11.652 df 15 p 0.000 a test of effects shows that lower order poles of the first modulator source are significant by condition p 0.000 and event p 0.000 . Multiple comparisons shows that these poles separate the neutral condition from the others neutral vs. auditory p 0.004 neutral vs. visual p 0.003 and separate the events baseline vs. stimulus p 0.001 baseline vs. response p 0.000 stimulus vs. response p 0.007 .

The test is significant by event type Pillai s trace 0.598 F 15.788 df 15 p 0.000 a test of effects shows that the lower order poles of the first modulator source are significant p 0.000 . Multiple comparisons shows these poles separates the types baseline vs. stimulus p 0.000 baseline vs. response p 0.000 stimulus vs. response p 0.000 . is an Error Bar plot 95 CI for the first source average by event type. The figure suggests that the measure separates the stimulus and response from the event baseline but not from each other. Further there is no separation between a pre baseline and the event baseline as would be expected.

The difference measure for the primary modulator was statistically analyzed in a linear model multivariate statistical test on the experimental conditions with subject dummy variables included for the repeated measures a similar statistical test was performed on the event types.

The statistical test is significant by treatments for condition Pillai s trace 0.160 F 10.448 df 6 p 0.000 and event trace 0.133 F 5.600 df 9 p 0.000 but not the trials a test of effects shows that the first source is significant by condition F 29.075 df 2 p 0.000 and event F 13.839 df 3 p 0.000 . Multiple comparisons show significant separation of conditions neutral vs. auditory p 0.000 neutral vs. visual p 0.000 auditory vs. visual p 0.000 .

The test is significant by event type Pillai s trace 0.227 F 9.951 df 9 p 0.000 a test of effects shows the first source is significant F 31.523 df 3 p 0.000 . Multiple comparisons show significant separation of the baseline from the stimulus and response baseline vs. stimulus p 0.000 baseline vs. response p 0.000 . is an Error Bar plot 95 CI for the first source difference measure by event type. The figure suggests that the measure significantly separates the stimulus and response from the event baseline but not from each other. Further there is no separation between a pre baseline and the event baseline as would be expected.

The coefficients poles used in polynomial smoothing of the driving functions were statistically analyzed with a general linear model multivariate statistical test with subject dummy variables included for the repeated measures.

The statistical test is significant by treatments for condition Pillai s trace 0.715 F 2.983 df 100 p 0.000 trial trace 0.482 F 4.969 df 50 p 0.000 and event type trace 0.710 F 1.669 df 150 p 0.000 a test of effects shows that lower order poles of most sources are significant by condition and event. Multiple comparisons show that these poles significantly separate the neutral condition from the auditory and visual and the baseline event from the stimulus and response.

The test is significant by event type Pillai s trace 0.881 F 2.260 df 150 p 0.000 a test of effects shows that the lower order poles are significant at the p 0.000 level. Multiple comparisons show that these poles separate the baseline from the stimulus and response. is an Error Bar plot 95 CI for the average measure by event types the plot shows that the events are well separated. The figure suggests that the measure significantly separates the stimulus and response from the event baseline but marginally separate one baseline from the other 3120 .

The difference measure for driving functions was statistically analyzed by a general linear model univariate analysis of variance with subject dummy variables.

The statistical test is significant by condition F 50.354 df 2 p 0.000 and event F 20.209 df 3 dfe 13 p 0.000 but not trial multiple comparisons shows significant differences among conditions p 0.000 .

The test is significant by event type F 46.636 df 3 p 0.000 multiple comparisons show significant differences among types p 0.000 . is an Error Bar plot 95 CI for the difference measure by event types the plot shows that the events are well separated. The figure suggests that the measure significantly separates the stimulus and response from the event baseline . Further while there is separation between a pre baseline and the event baseline suggesting an overly sensitive measure the separation is slight compared to that for the baseline to the stimulus and response events.

The cross correlation matrix of the node excitation driving functions may be used to derive network properties as a small world network such as the node degree and network connectivity. The average cross correlation matrices of the node driving functions computed from non normalized sliding inner product by one sided frequency lag are shown as gray scaling of color coded figures along with a full scale color bar for the event classes in color bar left end minimum correlation value right end maximum value along with the matching thresholded matrices. In the original color coded figures the higher correlation values were coded in red and the lower values in blue. For the full cross correlation matrix in grayscale the intermediate correlation is in the lighter shade the low correlation in the dark shade and the high correlation in intermediate shade . For the thresholded matrix in grayscale the high correlation is in the lighter shade while the low correlation is in the darker shade . The abscissa of the graph horizontal axis corresponds to the function held constant in the correlation the ordinate to the function indexed lowest to highest top to bottom . The diagonal elements correspond to the node auto correlation which is unity at zero lag the distribution is not necessarily uniform about the diagonal because of the one sided correlation process. Threshold values are computed for the thresholded cross correlation matrixes using the grand mean value and standard deviation for the matrix threshold mean 1.96 std and resulting matrixes are segmented as background noise elements for those values below the threshold and object elements for those values above the threshold.

Cortical networks may be described as small world networks mathematical graphs in which most nodes are not neighbors of one another but can be reached from every other by a small number of steps the typical distance the number of steps between two nodes in such scale free networks is proportionally to the logarithm of the number of network nodes. These graphs may be classified by two independent structural features the clustering coefficient and the average node to node distance average shortest path length . Cortical networks tend to have a small average shortest path length and a large clustering coefficient since they consists of groups of shortest paths nodes centered on hub nodes with a high degree i.e. number of connections. Another measure is the efficiency of the network in the parallel transfer of information. The network properties are computed from the cross correlation matrices as described below.

The degree of a node vertex is the number of connections edges with other nodes in a network. The degree of the network is the average across all nodes. The connections are determined from a binary cross correlation matrix computed from the original using a threshold of 0.817 mean of 0.778 1.96 std dev of 0.019 nodes are connected if the correlation exceeds this value. The result is a set of sub graph matrices for the direct neighbor nodes of each sub graph index node. Table 1 of lists the node degrees by event class. The table shows that the base and stimulus event networks have a high degree of connectivity as compared to the response network and that the first seventh eighth and ninth have a high degree of connectivity across event classes as opposed to the other nodes however there is wide spread of node degree within event classes.

The absolute clustering coefficient of a node is the ratio of the number of existing connections to the number of all possible connections the absolute clustering coefficient of the network is the average of all nodes. The existing connections are computed from the correlation weights for the connections of the binary matrix. The number of all possible connections are computed from the node degree d given in Table 1 as d d 1 2. Table 2 of lists the clustering coefficients by event class the table shows higher clustering for the stimulus and response networks than for the base and that the third node has high clustering across event class compared to the other nodes.

The diameter of the network is related to the length of the shortest path between any two nodes. Here the path length is computed as the inverse of the correlation weights for the connections of the binary correlation matrix. Table 3 of listing the path lengths by event class shows that the response network has the shortest path length as compared to the other networks and that the first seventh eighth and ninth have a longer path length across event classes as opposed to the other nodes. It is noted that the average path length is on the order of that expected for a cortical network as a scale free network with uncorrelated power law distribution average distance diameter of ln ln 10 0.834 .

The efficiency is a measure of the fault tolerance resulting from parallel transfer in the network and is computed as the inverse of the harmonic mean of the minimum absolute path length between each pair of nodes the network global efficiency is here computed as the average of local node efficiency. The local efficiency is a measure of the connectivity remaining in a sub graph when the index node is removed. Table 4 of listing efficiencies by event type shows that the base network has lower efficiency as compared to the other networks and that the third node has higher efficiency across event types as compared to the other nodes.

Table 5 of shows a table of the summary metrics for the event type networks as presented in Table 6 the results suggest that the base network with less clustering and efficiency and more spread out is a form of scale free default network the stimulus network is a focused task related network scale free spread out with high degree and high diameter and high clustering and high efficiency and the response network is a task related small world network that has less degree and diameter and greater clustering and efficiency. Note that the average diameter for a scale free network is on the order of ln ln 10 0.83.

Table 7 of shows the assignment of the source nodes to the event type networks. The assignments are derived from the network metrics using the Matlab clustering routine kmeans.m to minimize the sum over all clusters of the within cluster sums of metric point to point distances for a specified number of clusters.

In this step the source nodes for an event type network are mapped to the Brodmann Areas of the human brain cortical regions. In this process the source locations in the spherical head coordinates may be converted into Talairach space coordinates using standard transformations see e.g. http sccn.ucsd.edu wiki A08  DIPFIT from which the cortical structure and the corresponding Brodmann Areas may be derived using the Talairach Client brain gray matter mapping software see e.g. http www.talairach.org client.html . shows sources located in a three dimensional MRI projection Talairach head space as point dipoles grayscale colored white without orientation indicated located within the region . The projection shows a lateral mid sagittal view of the cortex with the skull at the inion a frontal coronol view of the cortex and a transverse view . In further embodiment the Brodmann Areas for the event networks may be isolated from the network source nodes as determined from Table 7.

All tests by treatment condition and event and by event case of modulator and node measures from polynomial fits and differences are family wise significant. All measures of the primary modulator source and of the node driving functions are statistically significant by treatment conditions and event and separate the base event from the others most measures separate the stimulus from the response as well.

Considering the effects of the modulator sources the source with strongest variance the primary source is significant by treatment condition and event and by event case as measured by the lower order poles of a polynomial fit or by the absolute differences. Considering the effect comparisons for this modulator source all measures separate the stimulus from the response and the base event from the others.

With respect to the node excitation driving functions most nodes are significant by treatment condition and event and by case as measured by the higher order poles of a polynomial fit and separate the stimulus from the response and the base event from the others. Considering the node poles all lower order poles separate the base from the others and most lower order poles separate the stimulus from the response as well. The implication is that the function base and trend and less so the quadratic are most sensitive to the treatments including the event class.

Of the measures derived from the node excitation driving function the most sensitive to a change in event case appears to be the node absolute grand difference since this measure strongly separates the stimulus from the response as well as both events from the base. This sensitivity increases with sample size by increasing averaging over samples before computing the absolute difference.

Representative modulator source spectrums computed from the average polynomial poles are nearly linear increasing functions of frequency more so for the stimulus than the base and less so for the response. The spectrums are maximally separated about 30 Hz in the high Beta frequency range. Similarly the representative node driving functions are linearly increasing functions of frequency peaking about 30 Hz the spectrums are separated in the Beta range centered about 30 Hz and in the alpha range centered about 10 Hz.

Node network properties computed from thresholded cross correlation matrices show differences by event case in such parameters as node degree distribution clustering coefficient network diameter shortest path length and efficiency. The average path length is on the order of that expected for a scale free network with uncorrelated power law distribution commonly found for cortical networks.

A representative cortical source network is derived for the node network by clustering the sources weighted by the network properties for the event classes the cortical source set is mapped into Talairach Space coordinates for which equivalent cortical labels including Brodmann Areas are derived using the Talairach Client gray matter mapping the network source activations derived from the correlation matrices are mapped to cognitive functional areas through the corresponding Brodmann Areas resulting in a network model of cortical functions for the event cases.

In particular as would be expected the methodology isolates sources located at BA for pre attentive processing and at BA for association that are involved in both the stimuli and response events a source at BA for decision involved in both events while a source at BA for motor planning is involved in the stimuli event presumably for planning the response and a source at BA for executing the alert orientation. Furthermore the source at BA motor execution and one at BA for somasthetic processes are involved in the response event presumably with finger execution to a button and touch sensation at completion of the execution.

The invention has various applications. One is as a component of an automated aiding system in the electronic aiding of tasks performed by human operators for crew served systems including aiding for operators of combat vehicles and robotic control stations by providing an estimate of brain functions from electroencephalogram measurements. Modern combat systems are increasingly operated autonomously by on board electronic systems with the operator in a supervisory role manual intervention may be called for by the electronic system only in critical moments. In such incidents the electronic aider may constitute a display organizer which electronically aware of the task priorities schedules the information needs for the task and arranges such in a display format that is in a manner supportive of the performance by the operator in particular such corresponding to a cognitive flow rate in the operator that is compatible with control dynamics that may be needed for a task. Essential to the functioning of the display organizer is the development of a control strategy that comprises specifying a reference course of action to be executed and a schedule of task events composed of time periods and sub tasks to be enabled during the time periods for the course where the sub tasks are ordered from task initiation to task completion by the operator.

A common design feature of the electronic aider is an embedded model of operator cognitive attention that with knowledge of task demands may be used for scheduling the information display. In some designs the model may comprise an information processing model with cognitive processors controlled by a model executor and rules for the activation of the corresponding processors along with associated task times and cost elements based on mapping attributes of cognitive attention. Still further in some designs the model may be incorporated within a skills based rules based and knowledge based model of cognitive processing where the executor recalls task rules from the knowledge base and in evaluation sets up the rules for activation the rules base processor activates the rules directing control and the skills based processor controls the task execution. With this model a control strategy for scheduling displays is determined by a process that with access to the processor task times and cost elements computes associated cost variables for sub task combinations and selects the optimal cost schedule to best facilitate task cognitive attention. In this process cognitive attention is used as a metric for the event sub tasks where the attention is an element of an attention state set ranked by the degree of cognitive involvement of such ordered from task initiation to task completion. In further elaboration the ranking is by the states of orientation task recall task focus option review and decision activation and continual control. Here reference is made to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 721 161 filed Dec. 20 2012 and further to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 792 585 filed Mar. 11 2013 both by the inventor for further teachings of modeling task attention.

An important step in the scheduling process is knowledge of the attention state of the human operator since a fully ordered schedule sequence starting from initiation could interrupt the cognitive flow being executed by the operator who may already be involved in the task. The interruption may disorient the operator resulting in an evaluation of the displays and consequently poor performance until the operator recovers. For this reason the scheduling is initialized from the task attention state of the operator as determined by an electronic task attention processor from measurements from the operator such as eye movements and eye gaze fixations measurements of the state of brain cognitive functions and manual activity in performance of the tasks as well as the state of the task performance. In this design the invention as embodied below estimates the states of the cognitive processors of the scheduling model for the task attention processor from the brain cognitive functions as determined from electroencephalogram measurements. Since the skill controlling brain processes are sub cortical they cannot be readily determined from electroencephalogram measurements using standard technology and the state of the model skill processor is estimated by the task attention processor from the skill based ocular and manual activities. Further the relation of the operator s attention to the task is determined by the task attention processor from the status of the task. Here reference is made to U.S. Pat. No. 8 708 884 by the inventor titled Systems and methods for adaptive mitigation of motion sickness herein incorporated by reference for further teachings of reducing operator activities to estimates of the cognitive attention state. Having described the role of the invention as a component of the electronic aiding system via the task attention processor an embodiment for this application is now elaborated.

In application an embodiment of the invention is executed in two stages with a first training stage using an initial set of Electroencephalogram EEG scalp recordings data to automatically derive independent sources representative of the cerebral functions and a classifier based on the source driving functions and a second application stage sequentially estimating the source activations from short term data segments. Parameterization kernels composed as the node driving functions may be derived from the source estimated activations for classifying the associated cortical functionality in real time. The same date reduction is applied to the raw data in both stages to ensure stochastic consistency.

The training stage comprises three steps. In the first step automatic artifact rejection algorithms are applied to the data set to prune epochs and channels of extreme noisy sets then following application of blind source separation analysis the resulting set of independent sources are automatically pruned of contaminated sources leaving a set of cerebral sites representative of cerebral functions as well as the associated mixing weight matrixes. In the third step the sources are clustered to form representative networks which are then parameterized the results of which along with event indices are used to train a state classifier for real time application.

The application stage comprises a continual sequence of short term scalp recorded data segments to which the un mixing weight matrixes are applied following automatic artifact adjustments to estimate the independent source activation datasets for the segment window. Parameterization kernels are applied to the source activations for classifying the associated cortical functionality in real time. In the present design multivariate autoregressive and spectral analysis is applied to compute the kernel measures composed as the node driving functions from source auto and cross power and directed transfer functions.

An embodiment of the invention is shown in with the embodiment including of a set of electronic hardware and or software modules with a control module a module for preparing collected EEG samples for stimuli modality response cases of interest in application from the base set a module for signal processing of the case sample a module for locating cortical sources of the case sample as a training set a module as a knowledge base containing the case source information a module for spectral analyzer of the source activations derived from the case sample a module for training a cognitive state classifier from the spectral analysis of the training set and the task knowledge and a module for classifying the sample as to cognitive state following classifier training. The modules are activated by the control module in different combinations depending upon whether the set is for training or a normal application. The modules may be activated for training in the sequence of preparing a set of training samples for case signal processing source location spectral analysis and classifier training from the training set spectral analysis and the task knowledge base task knowledge resulting in un mixing matrixes for the sources saved in knowledge base and the classifying parameters in for reference. In application the cognitive state is determined by the module preparing samples by case signal processor spectral analysis of the source activations using the un mixing matrixes from and classifying the cognitive state using the parameters from . Applications may be for different stimuli modality response cases with the samples processed at a preferred sampling rate montage and reference electrode site maximizing signal contrasts for each case although reference electrode choice does not affect source localization. The module prepares a case sample from the original base data set with the sampling rate derived from the base rate by filtering and down sampling and the montage and reference electrode from adding the base set site voltages for the preferred configuration. An example is that of processing an auditory data set for three dimensional auditory cueing by binaural cues from sub cortical auditory brain stem frequency following responses with a base set possibly sampled at 10 kHz external reference set to bilateral earlobes and digitally high passed filtered at 40 Hz and low passed at 1.5 kHz and from audio cerebral responses from the auditory cortex with the base set low pass digital filtered at 40 Hz and down sampled to 256 Hz and reference of a common reference electrode sum of all site voltages . Resetting the sampling frequency for the audio cerebral response reduces the pole order needed for representation as an autoregressive process to a practical level for application of the invention.

In one embodiment shown in the classifier can be a knowledge base system configured as an expert system with an input buffer knowledge base inference engine and inference rules with input here shown as data on the network modulators IM network metrics net and source Brodmann Areas BA and brain cognitive state output . In further embodiment the input may include the node excitation driving functions as well. In this design the input buffer may store time wise sequential values. The knowledge base asserts relations among the inputs and the cognitive states depending upon the values with the network modulators on network control the network metrics on the type of network and the Brodmann Areas on the network functions. The inference engine is an automated reasoning system that evaluates the current state of the knowledge base applies relevant rules and then asserts new knowledge into the knowledge base using in one embodiment if then rules based on parameters set in the training session. In other embodiments the classifier may be of different designs including those of discriminative models that maximize the output based on a training set such as a logistic regression model a support vector machine maximizing the margin between a decision hyperplane and the training set or a multiple layered perceptron configured as an artificial neural network with nodes in an input output and hidden layers with the nodes between adjacent layers connected with weighted links.

In this design the cerebral cortical source nodes may be mapped to Brodmann Areas and the corresponding brain functions. As mentioned above the occipital somatosensory and temporal cortical lobes are organized as processors for primary sensory areas vision BA somatosensory BA temporal BA for auditory BA for gustatory and secondary sensory areas vision BA somatosensory BA temporal BA for auditory association areas vision BA somatosensory BA temporal BA along with multiple association areas in the parietal and temporal BA which in turn lead to the frontal lobe for evaluation BA with pre motor frontal eye fields for directed vision BA and secondary motor BA and primary motor BA for action. Specialized temporal and frontal areas process language understanding BA and generation BA . These functions may be specialized further by cortical hemisphere. In addition the anterior cingulate is believed involved in error detection BA and the posterior cingulate in emotion BA . Further involved are the limbic system regions of entorhinal cortex BA perirhinal cortex BA and the ectorhinal area BA of the perirhinal cortex among others for spatial memory and orientation.

Further the cortical brain functions of the source node network may be mapped to the cognitive processing network for classification of attention to a task. In this process the modulator sources are a measure of the strength of attention while the network topology corresponds to the attention involvement. As has been mentioned above a default network corresponding to self referral has less clustering and efficiency and is more spread out in a form of scale free network a task focused network would be spread out but with high degree and high diameter as well as high clustering and high efficiency and a task response network would perhaps be a small world network that has less degree and diameter and greater clustering and efficiency.

In some embodiments the classifier outputs of the brain cognitive state may be mapped through the knowledge base of the expert system to the state of information processing as expressed by a cognitive processing model for the human operator and in particular to the states of the separate processors making up the model from the corresponding cortical networks. In this process the cortical structure as located by the Brodmann Areas of the network may be mapped to a model of information processing where in some designs these models comprise cognitive processors controlled by a model executor and rules for the activation of the corresponding processors as components of an information processing network. As has been mentioned the model may be incorporated within a skills based rules based and knowledge based model of cognitive processing where the executor recalls task rules from the knowledge base and in evaluation sets up the rules for activation the rules base processor activates the rules directing control and the skills based processor controls the task execution. In this model the levels of involvement of the processors depend upon the attention state of the network as determined by the executor.

There is a neurological basis for the validity of such a model within the human cerebral cortex with presumably the executor mapped to the orbitofrontal cortex believed involved in planning the knowledge base to the temporal lobes the rules processor to the anterior parietal and the pre motor cortex with control setting to the motor cortex. The skills processor may be mapped to the cerebellum with a reference setting from the motor cortex and visual offset from the pontine nuclei via the posterior parietal for foveal vision or even directly from the visual cortex for peripheral vision. Further the reference may be set by the parietal cortex in visual egocentric coordinates for comparison to delayed visual returns. The cerebellum is believed essential to coordinating motor limb and digit movements. Each of these centers taken together may comprise cortical attention networks for eye movements working memory spatial distribution and temporal expectation within the frontal temporal and parietal brain regions. Again reference is made to U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 13 721 161 13 792 585 both by the inventor for further teachings of modeling task attention.

Various embodiments implementations and application of the present invention may be embodied as a plurality of electronic modules for example. The electronic modules may be implemented as hardware software or a combination thereof. The modules may be implemented with a computer of computing device having one or more processors or micro processors as known in the art that are specifically configured to execute coding necessary to implement embodiments of the present invention. Processor executable instructions can be stored in a memory device and execute by the processors when needed. In some implementations software code instructions firmware or the like may be stored on a computer or machine readable storage media having computer or machine executable instructions executable by the processor s . The processor s may be a programmable processor such as for example a field programmable gate array FGPA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC processor. The methodology disclosed herein may be implemented and executed by an application may be created using any number of programming routines such as MATLAB. Of course any number of hardware implementations programming languages and operating platforms may be used without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. As such the description or recitation of any specific hardware implementation programming language and operating platform herein is exemplary only and should not be viewed as limiting.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein. While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

All patents patent applications articles and other references mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

