---

title: Cognitive platform and method for energy management for enterprises
abstract: This invention is a platform and method for using cognition for managing enterprise energy needs. Cognitive platform allows for dynamic management of energy consumption, demand and baseline calculations by use of a cognitive platform and cognitive device. Employees as well as internal and external stakeholders can set performance indicators and monitor the parameters against the energy performance indicators. Based on the initial knowledge, the system identifies improvements in order to reach the energy key performance indicators. Depending on the feedback, the system learns and improves the accuracy of the predictions and suits them to a given industry or given enterprise scenario. Enterprise-wide energy and/or environmental management covers policies, planning, key performance indicators, goals, targets, works flows, user management, asset mapping, input-output energy flows, conservation options, performance management, analytics. The system and method allow for monitoring and verification by internal and/or external stakeholders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092741&OS=09092741&RS=09092741
owner: Amber Flux Private Limited
number: 09092741
owner_city: Hyderabad
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140708
---
This application claims priority to Indian Patent Application No 2026 CHE 2014 filed Apr. 21 2014 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to dynamic energy management of all energy consuming equipment and processes that impact management of energy and environmental performance of enterprises. Employees as well as internal and external stakeholders can set performance indicators and monitor the parameters against the energy performance indicators. Based on the initial knowledge the system suggests improvement ideas in order to reach the energy key performance indicators. Depending on the feedback the system learns and improves the accuracy of the predictions and suits them to a given industry or given enterprise scenario without much human intervention. It is a dynamic and self learning system and method that manages knowledge based on initial information and subsequent feedback about enterprise wide energy and or environmental management covering policies planning key performance indicators goals targets works flows user management asset mapping input output energy flows conservation options performance management analytics. The system and method allow for monitoring and verification by internal and or external stakeholders.

This invention relates to dynamic energy management of all energy consuming equipment and process that impact management of energy and environmental performance of enterprises using a cognitive platform that has ability to sense parameters related to energy consumption of equipment and take decisions based on a rule set and communicate the changed or new parameters to equipment to achieve energy efficiency.

Equipment can be any energy consuming equipment such as computer boiler furnace heat exchanger motor fan blower pump compressor heating ventilation and air conditioning systems or any other equipment.

Management of energy and environmental resources by enterprises is emerging as a key consideration for business success. Earlier energy management did not receive much attention as energy costs were not very significant and also most equipment were not able to provide the necessary data that can help in analysis and management. Now enterprises are focusing on energy consumption and environmental aspects due to increased costs and awareness of adverse impacts of excessive energy usage and corporate social responsibility.

Today s energy suppliers and users have expectations on solving the complexity of management scalability fault tolerant reliable fast integration of new technologies as well as attractive business models.

A number of energy management methods and systems are available in the market today that helps enterprises in energy management. U.S. Pat. No. 7 062 389 B2 provides for a system for managing energy consumption by equipment located at site. It provides for methods and systems for gathering consumption data from energy consuming equipment. U.S. Pat. No. 6 178 362 B1 provides for energy management for enterprises that have widely dispersed energy consuming factories or facilities. U.S. Pat. No. 8 589 112 B2 provides for analyzing and identifying steps for lowering energy consumption in buildings. US Patent application 2013 0185120 provides methods and systems for energy benchmarking for gap analysis. It teaches us how to compare different performance parameters of equipment of one plant against another plant.

These systems are mostly information processing systems based on passive and structured data. They can process structured data from multiple sources and provide analysis. They can help in periodical usage information related to energy consumption efficiency and send alarms to users in case of some boundary conditions are met or exceeded.

However currently available methods and systems do not take automatic actions to improve energy efficiency are not able to conduct dynamic simulation for energy generation consumption. Specific energy consumption of equipment and thus of an enterprise depends on many factors like user behavior habits vendor supplied information equipment vintage equipment condition maintenance quality weather factors production process building envelope etc. Currently available methods and systems are able to consider only a small set of factors.

Their ability to accurately define compare peer groups conduct consumption demand analysis recommend energy enhancement options with commercially viable return on investment etc. is very limited and they do not posses the ability to take automatic decisions and actions to improve energy efficiency.

Real life challenges in energy management are stochastic in nature. Artificial intelligence techniques like machine learning cognition can help in effective energy management. As explained by Nikos Vlasis in the book A concise introduction to multi agent systems and distributed artificial intelligence goal for a particular task is the desired state of the world. Planning is search through the state space for an optimal path to the goal. When the world is deterministic graph search techniques can help arrive at the goal. However in stochastic world transitions between the states are non deterministic and hence graph search techniques are not useful as uncertainty of transitions need to be taken into account while planning i.e. searching through the state space.

Some of the recent research is in the field of use of cognition advanced statistics and artificial intelligence for energy monitoring. US Patent application 2013 0289788 A1 provides for energy disaggregation techniques for low resolution whole house energy consumption data where methods for creating an appliance signature based upon a low resolution whole house profile. European Patent application EP 2 026 299 A1 provides for cognitive electric power meter and method for decomposing an input power signal measured at the input power meter into its constituent individual loads without incurring home field installation costs to allow provision of a detailed usage summary to consumers. US Patent application US 2010 0305889 A1 provides for non intrusive appliance load identification using cascaded cognitive learning where by measuring an energy consumption signal and using publicly available information of a location one can estimate probabilities of energized appliances and further analyzing individual loads and corresponding energy consumption of appliances.

However these are primarily focused towards gathering information from energy consuming equipment using cognition and structured data. They do not address the issues of decision making towards energy efficiency and management of unstructured data. Also comprehensive energy management requires the ability to manage many more parameters than just the equipment. For example organizational polices human actions have a significant impact in specific energy consumption. This also requires active management of information related to unstructured data. Currently available methods and systems are passive in nature and have very limited or no capability to process unstructured data.

At present there is no comprehensive intelligent learning system available in the marketplace that can help enterprises manage their energy needs efficiently.

One of the key variables for energy efficiency and savings calculation is baseline energy consumption. Traditional systems and methods are capable of calculating baseline energy consumption based on statistical techniques like regression. These techniques take historical data into consideration while arriving at baseline energy consumption. These systems and methods assume environmental factors that affect the energy consumption are deterministic in nature. In real life these factors change significantly over time.

For example many enterprises implement various energy efficiency measures over a period of time. This brings the need for baseline energy consumption to involve assumptions about the future as well. An accurate baseline can be achieved only when baseline calculation is dynamic in nature to accommodate dynamic situations especially if the energy service of the analyzed subject has changed throughout the implementation of the energy efficiency measure.

An efficient and successful energy management need to include corporate commitment appropriate energy management practices processes promoted through energy awareness and training and meaningful metrics for tracking results maintaining accountabilities and responding in a timely manner to variations etc.

This requires comprehensive end to end energy management methods and systems that are dynamic intelligent and self learning.

With the advancements in technology today a number of smart meters smart devices are available that can track the energy consumption and transmit the information to energy management systems.

Also with the increased use of software applications and proliferation of mobile networks devices software applications Internet cloud computing social media applications increasing amounts of data are available for processing and decision making.

One of the most important challenges existing today is regarding the dramatic increase in data from various sources like consumption data from smart meters weather and other environmental information from local machines instruments local weather stations production data from Manufacturing Resource Planning Information Systems automation systems building occupancy levels specific planned and unplanned events dynamic pricing information from utility suppliers etc. Data from various sources need to be analyzed and meaningfully managed for the effective energy management.

However present energy management systems being passive in nature are unable to take advantage of these data as majority of it is unstructured and dynamic in nature. Dynamic decision making based on continuous learning helps in optimizing energy usage and costs. New business systems that incorporate cognitive functionality and increase energy efficiency through the use of dynamic energy management are needed.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention overcome the problems associated with the existing mechanisms for dynamic energy management by providing an easily implemented cost effective open standards solution that has cognitive capabilities of self learning and decision making using statistical artificial intelligence using initial knowledge and subsequent feedback.

The principal object of the present invention is to provide comprehensive dynamic energy management to enterprises regardless of where the users may be located in the world and regardless of type location and or other characteristics of the energy consuming equipment that they would like to manage.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a device and method that is based on ability to sense parameters related to energy consumption of equipment ability to decision making based on a rule set and ability to communicate the changed or new parameters to equipment.

Another object of the present invention to provide a baseline energy consumption calculation method and system that is based on historical data as well as projected implementation plan of energy saving projects to enterprises. Baseline energy consumption can be calculated for equipment facility plant department and enterprise level.

According to the present invention there is provided a method for managing energy in an enterprise method comprising of

The invention also provides for a device for managing energy consumption of equipment device comprising of 

The invention also provides for logic encoded in non transitory media for execution and when executed by a processor operable to 

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. One skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the description of the of the concepts described herein.

Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the concepts described herein may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the concepts described herein may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on one or more machine readable or computer readable storage media which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable or computer readable storage medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable or computer readable storage medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM device s random access memory RAM device s magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

While for the purpose of simplicity the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders or concurrently with other acts from the shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts maybe required to implement a methodology as described herein.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

As described herein the exemplary embodiments of the invention are applicable to a system method platform and device for use for energy management. While various industry terms and acronyms are used several terms have the following additional meanings as described.

Example of cognition includes processes by which the sensory input and or information is transformed reduced elaborated stored recovered used for calculating reasoning problem solving decision making applying knowledge and or changing preferences.

Example of a platform includes a system that provides base for additional endeavors. For example a platform can allow a variety of technologies to merge allowing for energy management.

Examples of energy sources include electricity any raw material or fuel that is in solid liquid gaseous or plasma state. Example of energy sources also include bi products intermediate products generated pre during or post manufacturing process or during intermediate manufacturing process.

Example of equipment controllers includes any hardware and or hardware with software controls equipment receives and or sends energy and environmental parameters related to the equipment.

Example of a cognitive device includes any device that uses cognition. Example of a cognitive device can be a smart meter hardware and or hardware with software that uses cognition.

Example of a network includes wireless and wire line telecommunication networks data networks computer networks public or private cloud local area networks wide area networks Internet content centric networks internet of things or a heterogeneous network for example that can have different telecommunication standards like GSM CDMA different versions of same telecommunication standards like GSM 900 GSM 1900 different operating systems like Unix Android iOS Windows or different versions of the same operating system like 2.1 3.4 or different server hardware like IBM Lenovo HP Oracle different databases like relational databases network databases flat files object oriented databases NoSQL databases.

Internet can be any combination of switches routers hubs microwave devices and other communication equipment that can transfer Internet protocol messages from one point to another.

Example of an external application includes any software application or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins application programming interface API applets widgets code fragments and or other tool that is connected with the cognitive platform for energy management either directly or via any interface or via any other software application. External application may run on same or different operating systems same or different versions of the same operating system same or different hardware and same or different database.

Example of a user application includes any software application or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins application programming interface API applets widgets code fragments and or other tool that is used by people and it is connected with the cognitive platform for energy management either directly or via any interface or via any other software application. User application may run on same or different operating systems same or different versions of the same operating system same or different hardware and same or different database.

According to the present invention there is provided a cognitive platform for energy management that resides at a centralized location accessible from any location via a network or any other means now known or later devised. In this exemplary system enterprises can manage various aspects of energy efficiently.

Data received is interpreted and translated for processing by the processor using data interpretation translation and data sent to user applications external applications and cognitive energy devices is interpreted and translated using data interpretation translation . Cognitive decision maker and various applications to process the data for energy management.

Decisions made by the cognitive decision maker are communicated to the users via user applications external applications and cognitive energy device . Information processed and output generated by the applications to are communicated to the users via user applications external applications and cognitive energy device . Middleware acts as a bridge between various applications to cognitive decision maker and data interpretation translation . Processed data is stored in database storage .

In this exemplary embodiment the architecture is conceptualized for integration with the existing infrastructure. By adding additional functionality to the existing infrastructure the energy utilization within a particular facility plant area organization etc. can be optimized. A combination of cooperative energy saving strategies and cognition enables a reduction in overall energy consumption through the optimal use of energy resources.

In the exemplary embodiment the cognitive platform for energy management can be placed physically at a particular facility plant geographical area or organization or as cloud based Software as a Service SaaS or in any other manner. Multiple cognitive platforms for energy management can be deployed in a hierarchical or distributed manner with one or more cognitive platforms for energy management acting as a control node for other cognitive platforms for energy management or each cognitive platform for energy management acting as a control node for one or more other nodes while itself acting as a subordinate to another cognitive platform for energy management . One or more cognitive platforms for energy management may be connected via a network.

Furthermore deployment architecture related control and dimensioning requirements are also considered for achieving large scale business needs of enterprises for energy management.

In the exemplary embodiment a number of applications to facilitate in energy management of the enterprise. Structure of the applications to allows definitions and consolidated views dashboards drill downs for easy administration and management at enterprise department plant office facilities floor equipment and asset level within and across enterprises.

Policy Planner allows users to define the policies plans at various hierarchical levels within the organization.

KPI Target Manager allows users to define periodical key performance indicators and targets for energy consumption and demand at various hierarchical levels within the organization.

Demand Manager allows users to manage the sourcing of energy and raw material procurement vendors based on business plans policies and requirements.

Consumption Manager allows users to manage the consumption of energy and raw material procurement vendors based on actual consumption information as well as plans and policies.

Process Flows Manager allows for users to manage energy inflows and outflows for energy balance within and across energy consuming equipment. Such inflows and outflows and associated wastages can help in identifying energy losses and facilitate energy efficiency improvement plans and programs.

Assets Manager allows for users to manage knowledge information and data related to all energy consuming assets.

Financials Manager allows for users to manage knowledge information and data related to energy financial data. Such data can include cost of energy tariff calculations cost of raw material procurement costs and any other information that impacts the financial aspects of energy consumption or demand.

Efficiency Projects Manager allows for users to manage knowledge information and data related to all efficiency improvement projects undertaken by the enterprise. Such projects can range from simple maintenance activities of equipment to major changes to the plant and machinery. Such projects may run for a very short duration for example a few minutes to few days or for a very long duration say few months to several years . Efficiency Projects Manager allows for systematic management of all such projects.

Audit Manager allows for internal and external audits related to energy management. Users can simulate emulate estimate the energy consumption and demand using data collected during the audit and identify any improvement areas problem areas compliances and non compliances.

Training Manager allows human experts construct the initial knowledge for use by cognitive decision maker . Users can simulate emulate estimate conduct scenario analysis and define goals tasks rules operations constraints ends steps and algorithms to achieve the goals tasks. Training Manager also allows for defining preferences priorities and precedence in case of multiple options for a given goal or task especially for situations where multi objective constraint optimization is needed. Training Manager allows for the enterprise departments plants offices facilities floors and equipment level training.

Reporting Analytics Tool allows users and other applications to generate reports and reports based on analysis. Reporting Analytics Tool allows for the enterprise departments plants offices facilities floors and equipment level reporting.

Work Flow Manager allows for collaboration between individuals and intra and inter organizational process flows to be managed for effective energy management.

User Manager allows for management of all users of cognitive platform for energy management based on roles access rights of the users.

Admin Governance Security manages all security administration and governance aspects of the cognitive platform for energy management . Admin Governance Security can maintain audit trial of every action undertaken by users.

Cognitive Decision Maker Cognitive Process and Cognitive Decision Maker Logic are explained in detail after describing for easy understanding.

EHSD stores all information related to active awareness of the equipment information and passive awareness of the surrounding environment structured and unstructured data sourced from own or third parties by the enterprise and associated relationship between the various data.

Energy policy KPI database EPKD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to enterprise policies planning and key performance indicators for energy management. Energy analytics database EAD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to various analytics related to energy management that can be used for reporting purpose. Energy assets database EAD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to enterprise energy assets. Energy tariff data ETD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to costs quantities and other associated information that impacts the cost of energy in an enterprise. Energy dynamic data database EDDD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to periodical energy usage and consumption information for all energy assets and all other dynamic data is received from cognitive energy device external applications and user applications . Energy financial info database EFID is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related financial information like production data production planning and scheduling data that impacts energy consumption and demand. Energy projects database EPD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related all energy saving projects undertaken or planned by the enterprise. Energy reference data database ERDD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to system and enterprise that impacts cognitive platform for energy management . ERDD also stores knowledge information and data related to energy process flows within the enterprise. Training database TD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to training of various uses of the cognitive platform for energy management and cognitive energy device . Audit database AD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to internal and external energy audits conducted by the enterprise.

CPEM admin database CAD is a knowledge repository that stores knowledge information and data related to administration governance security workflows and users.

Various databases to in the exemplary embodiment can be on same or different operating systems like Unix Android iOS Windows same or different versions of the same operating system like 2.1 3.4 or same or different server hardware like IBM Lenevo HP Oracle or same or different databases like relational databases network databases flat files object oriented databases NoSQL databases. One or more of the databases to can be combined into a single database. One or more databases to can be on a network. Databases to can be deployed in single tier or multiple tiers with or without redundancy availability fail safe options with single or multi phase commits.

Cognitive decision maker has ability to improve performance through learning. Artificial intelligence techniques enable such changed behavior. It uses cognitive process that perceives and acts. Architecture and configuration of cognitive process depends on the business requirements. Cognitive process for simple aware application requirement maps percepts to actions. Cognitive process for an adaptive application includes a state memory and achieves more sophisticated behavior. Cognitive process for goal based analysis has a model of the environment and equipment and can estimate the results of alternatives. Cognitive process supports learning with feedback artificial neural networks metaheuristic algorithms hidden Markov model rule based systems ontology based and case based systems.

Goal information identifies states that are desirable. It also maintains steps required to reach the goal. Steps can be a single step to reach the goal or a sequence of steps to reach the goal. Cognitive process may also maintain feedback information. Cognitive decision maker uses knowledge data and information stored in database storage .

Cognitive process can include a variety of artificial intelligence techniques to realize the capability. Standard searching solutions like breadth first search depth limited search iterative deepening depth first algorithms can yield different performance time or space complexity as a function of environment. Genetic algorithms can be used to explore the action space in a controlled manner. Neural engineering techniques can be used to explore the possible relationships between percepts and actions. Neural network is initially trained by providing a set of known inputs and desired outputs based on information available in the databases EAID and ERDD .

The neural network to learn the desired behaviors uses these observations. Feedback provided by the desired output is used for learning using various techniques like inductive learning ensemble learning. Any fielded cognitive process will have an initial set of knowledge based on EAID and ERDD . Statistical models of learning include Bayesian computations of probability as a function of percepts self organizing maps such as Kohonen networks Back propagation neural networks or any other model. A feedback mechanism determines when the candidate rules are allowed to survive or if they are to be removed. Cognitive process can use the initial knowledge system constructed by the human expert using training manager . Cognitive process takes decision on how to achieve a goal by taking specific objectives and constraints into consideration. There can be multiple cognitive processes running simultaneously on various precepts at a given point in time.

Cognitive process obtains data related to goals plans rules operations constraints ends from EHSD and current state from relevant data source. For example current state for energy consumption data can be from EDDD energy demand data baseline information can be from any one or more of EAD EAID ERDD and EFID KPIs can be from EPKD . Cognitive process also obtains knowledge and information related to problem solving methods that impact cognitive function specialized skills like perceptive reactive action recognition and rule based action executing from EHSD algorithmic optimization inputs from EHSD . Cognitive process applies the knowledge on the data and information and arrives at the possible options to achieve the goal with weights for each possible option.

Cognitive decision maker logic supports multi objective constraint optimization based on multiple cognitive processes thus ensuring the optimal solution taking all goals objectives and constraints into consideration.

Sensed information is also transmitted to cognitive platform for energy management via the network . Communication protocol medium handles specific message types formatted to handle all necessary data exchange with the cognitive platform for energy management . The cognitive platform for energy management can also communicate a decision to the cognitive energy device to implement changes to the equipment settings or equipment controller and cognitive energy device executes such instructions using actuator .

In the exemplary embodiment cognitive devices are intelligent devices that can be programmed and configured dynamically. Different parameters can be configured on the fly in near real time depending on the environment and avoiding bottlenecks. Cognitive energy device is a cognitive device. It is software controlled and has reconfigurable interface where the physical layer hardware behavior can be significantly changed as a consequence of changes in the software i.e. the same hardware entity can perform different functions at different times. The main advantage of this software controlled cognitive energy device are in terms of multi functionality e.g. compactness power efficiency ease of upgrading and ability to handle multiple standards.

As seen in cognitive decision maker obtains consumption data from EDDD . Cognitive decision maker then obtains the relevant data like key performance indicators KPI and targets from EPKD . Cognitive decision maker then compares whether the consumption data is within the KPI or target. If the consumption is within the KPI or target cognitive decision maker updates the EHSD with relevant information. If consumption is not within the KPI or target then cognitive decision maker obtains information related to specialized knowledge related to operations and associated constraints from various other data bases. For example cognitive decision maker obtains information related to the specific energy consuming equipment from EAID . Such information can include standard energy consumption norms defined by the vendor of the equipment specific operating conditions like operating temperature humidity and other information that may impact energy consumption. Cognitive decision maker obtains financial information related energy consuming equipment from EFID information related to specific energy projects undertaken by the enterprise from EPD for the specific equipment or facility and tariff related information from ETDD . Cognitive decision maker then obtains the relevant prior knowledge EHSD . Cognitive decision maker then analyzes current scenario against prior knowledge and predicts appropriate action for energy consumption optimization. The cognitive decision maker predicts one or more appropriate actions and options for actions. If more than option exists for optimization cognitive decision maker then decides which one of those options is best suited for the given scenario based on criteria like weightage score algorithms customer preferences as defined in ERDD and CAD . Cognitive decision maker then communicates the best suited option to data interpretation translation for further processing and communicating the changed settings or new settings to the equipment and or equipment controller . Cognitive decision maker also updates the EHSD .

If the baseline is not available then cognitive decision maker normalizes the data and calculates the baseline for the equipment facility or zone etc. Cognitive decision maker defines the baseline for the specific equipment facility of zone etc and updates EHSD with the relevant information.

If a baseline is already existing cognitive decision maker verifies whether variables that influence the baseline have changed or not. If there is no change to the influencing variables cognitive decision maker updates the EHSD with the relevant information.

If the influencing variables have changed then cognitive decision maker identifies options for adjusting the variables selects an option based on criteria like weightage scores algorithms customer preferences as defined in ERDD and CAD and then adjusts the variables based on the selected option. Cognitive decision maker updates the EHSD with the relevant information.

Cognitive process rolls back to original status state desirability and executes action B and re analyses the current status state desirability and arrives at possible actions C and E. It executes action E and re analyses the current status state desirability and arrives at conclusion that there is no possible action available from the prior knowledge. Cognitive process rolls back and executes action C and re analyses the current state state desirability and arrives at possible action F. If executes action F re analyses the current state state desirability and arrives at the conclusion that it is the goal state desirable state . Accordingly cognitive process concludes that actions B C F are the right steps to be conducted in that particular order to achieve the desired goal.

