---

title: Integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure
abstract: An integrated heterostructure material is achieved by combining the attributes of two perovskite oxide film growth methods, RF sputtering and the metallo-organic solution deposition (MOSD) technique, in combination with employing a novel integrated material design consisting of a SrTOthin film layer which serves as a template to achieve a property enhanced, BST-based thin film overgrowth. In specific the integrated materials design consists of a thin RF sputtered SrTiOfilm (lower layer) which underlies a substantially thicker MOSD over-growth Mg doped BST-based film (upper layer). The inventive material design and combinational film growth fabrication method thereof enables beneficial critical material/device characteristics which include enhanced dielectric permittivity in concert with low loss; low leakage current density; high voltage breakdown strength; high tunability; controlled and optimized film microstructure; and a smooth surface morphology with minimal surface defects. The invention enables miniature highly (voltage) tunable frequency agile devices and/or charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic devices for RF/microwave communications, RADAR, and electronic warfare applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09506153&OS=09506153&RS=09506153
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09506153
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140917
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefor.

This invention relates generally to an integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure material design and a combinational film growth fabrication method thereof to enable property enhanced miniaturized highly tunable analog devices and or charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic devices for RF microwave communications RADAR and electronic warfare applications.

Radio Frequency RF and microwave MW frequency components are of immense importance for defense and commercial communications RADAR and electronic warfare systems applications. Thin film perovskite oxide high dielectric permittivity non linear materials have attracted considerable attention for their potential application in voltage controlled tunable RF MW devices including phase shifters filters delay lines resonators impedance matching networks voltage controlled oscillators etc. because the relative dielectric constant of the material can be adjusted with the application of an external electric field. Thin film barium strontium titanate BaSrTiOor BST is considered to be one of the leading candidate materials to enable these device components. Barium strontium titanate BaSrTiOor BST has strong non linear response to an applied electric field both in the paraelectric PE and ferroelectric FE states. However in the FE state there are losses associated with polarization switching. Therefore for practical tunable device applications BST must be utilized in its PE state. Although the losses are lowered in the PE state unfortunately so is the dielectric constant and its associated tunability. The current generation of tunable devices is based on uniform composition paraelectric BST films hence there is a need to improve the material performance such that a high dielectric permittivity is attained without compromising other required performance metrics. At the same time there is a need to enhance dielectric response to create novel multiferroic hetero structure devices.

Maximizing the dielectric response dielectric permittivity of BST is critical for achieving high tunability realizing RF MW device miniaturization and for creating novel multiferroic heterostructures. Tunability promotes performance agility and high tunability enhanced dielectric permittivity is a desirable critical performance metric for tunable devices. The importance of miniaturization cannot be overemphasized for tunable RF MW device technologies especially for hand held communications applications and or On The Move OTM mobile communications systems both of which demand improved functionality with decreased size and weight. Additionally to comply with future RF MW systems architectures which place stringent requirements on reduced size weight and power in concert with reduced component size and numbers the realization of miniaturized high performance voltage controlled BST based devices is paramount. Maximizing the dielectric response permittivity of BST is critical for realizing RF MW device miniaturization. For tunable BST based RF MW devices e.g. resonators etc. the size of the device at any particular resonant frequency depends on the inverse square root of the dielectric constant of the BST film thus the larger the dielectric constant the smaller the device component. Therefore BST films with the highest possible dielectric permittivity would be optimal to ensure device miniaturization as well as enhanced tunability.

In addition to achieving high tunability and device miniaturization it is also critical to innovate new and novel integrated multiferroic devices such as voltage controlled magnetic devices which would replace the current tunable and or non reciprocal devices used in present day RF MW communications and RADAR systems. Commercial off the shelf COTS non reciprocal components cost hundreds of dollars each and permanent magnets which are required to bias the magnetic domains of the magnetic medium make these MW components large and bulky. Voltage control of magnetism converse magnetoelectric ME effect is a critical technology to enable a new class of small size light weight low power integrated voltage tunable RF microwave magnetic devices. Density functional theory DFT calculations has recently predicted a linear magnetoelectric ME effect i.e. charge mediated voltage control of magnetism VCM for novel heterostructures composed of ferroelectric FE ferromagnetic FM films and that this effect is amplified by more than two orders of magnitude if the dielectric FE component such as BST were to possess a relatively large dielectric permittivity. A high dielectric permittivity perovskite oxide material such as BST would serve to facilitate more charge for a given applied field hence enhance the magnetic response significantly to enable charge mediated VCM. Therefore considering charge mediated VCM device applications the BST thin film component must possess a high permittivity to enhance the ME effect.

However for the above mentioned device scenarios in addition to elevating the dielectric constant permittivity of a film such as BST to achieve component miniaturization high tunability and or charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic devices the BST based devices must still meet other crucial performance criteria. In specific the enhancement of the dielectric permittivity must be accomplished while maintaining low loss e.g. tan 0.03 low dielectric loss minimizes undesirable signal attenuation low leakage current densities e.g. 10 10A cm high leakage currents limit device reliability severely restricting long term material device operation and enhances power battery draw high break down field strength to ensure extended device operating reliability and a smooth defect free surface morphology to promote reliable thin film integration and or mitigate detrimental electrical device shorts. In addition the material process science fabrication methods must be complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS compatible to insure affordable IC integration manufacturability and device system affordability. In other words for a thin film BST based voltage controlled device to be useful and employed in engineering applications it must be commercially viable. To be commercially relevant thin film processes technologies must enjoy the economy of scale and affordability associated with the semiconductor industry. Thus the film fabrication process must possess the semiconductor industry standard attributes to include but not limited to low cost large diameter substrate type e.g. Si GaAs III V sapphire etc. with wafer diameters 4 inches large area cost and time effective film growth sputtering e beam CVD dip spin coating etc. low to moderate process temperatures to facilitate materials integration and the required lithographic etching and passivation process steps T 800 C. and compatibility with foundry cluster tools e.g. wafer size and temperature requirements utilize standard growth tools .

Various methods for enhancing the permittivity of FE thin films are proposed. As one of them an extremely high dielectric constant 7000 at 10 GHz has been achieved for SrTiOfilms grown by reactive molecular beam epitaxy MBE on DyScOsubstrates. The enhanced permittivity is due to the fact that the single crystal DyScOsubstrate promotes the growth of SrTiOfilms under uniform biaxial tensile strain which in turn causes the FE polarization to lie in the plane of the film thereby elevating the films permittivity. Although this is a successful approach to achieve a high permittivity the expensive MBE growth technique combined with the expensive designer substrate DyScO which is size and availability limited makes this approach non industry standard i.e. not integratable compatible with semiconductor technology and cost prohibitive. Other concepts to achieve high permittivity BST films involve attaining an engineered structural distortion within the BST film. An in plane tetragonally distorted film c10 nm . The high leakage current characteristics ultimately degrade the device long term reliability and the rough defect laden surfaces would inhibit the integration of the BST with other films i.e. metal electrodes and or overlying FM film etc. .

Thus from the prior art summarized herein the achievement of thin film BST which possess an enhanced dielectric permittivity in concert with the other required performance and manufacture criteria is not easily achieved. Therefore there is a continuing need to develop an integrated material design and or film growth fabrication methodologies which enables the simultaneous enhancement of dielectric permittivity in concert with low loss low leakage current densities high break down field strength and a smooth defect free surface morphology. In addition the material process science methods must be complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS compatible to insure affordable IC integration manufacturability and device system affordability. Such an invention would enable a new class of tunable device components to realize the next generation of RF MW communications RADAR and electronic warfare systems.

An integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure thin film material design and a combinational growth fabrication method inclusive is provided to enhance elevate the materials dielectric permittivity. The high dielectric permittivity is achieved in concert with low loss low leakage current density high voltage breakdown strength high tunability controlled and optimized film microstructure and smooth surface morphology with minimal surface defects. Furthermore the materials and related process science protocols are complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS compatible saleable and affordable. The inventive material design and combinational growth film fabrication method thereof enables miniature highly voltage tunable frequency agile devices and or charge mediated voltage tunable magnetic devices for RF microwave communications RADAR and electronic warfare applications. Device components include but are not limited to voltage controlled phase shifters pre selector tunable filter devices oscillators delay lines parametric amplifiers matching networks and non reciprocal devices such as circulators isolators and gyrators.

An integrated composite perovskite oxide thin film heterostructure material is provided which includes a lower layer of crystallized SrTiOperovskite oxide deposited on a substrate with or without bottom electrode and an upper layer of crystallized Mg doped BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive with 3 5 mol Mg dopant in contact with the top surface of the lower layer. Each of the lower and upper layers is in the form of a thin film with the lower layer having a thickness in the range of about 9 nm 20 nm inclusive and the upper layer having a thickness of 200 180 nm. Each of the lower and upper layers has a longest dimension generally parallel to the substrate and a thickness generally perpendicular to the substrate the longest dimension greater than the thickness. The crystallized SrTiOlower layer has a large grain microstructure with the longest grain size dimension parallel to the substrate and the shortest dimension equal to the film thickness which is perpendicular to the substrate the longest dimension is greater than the film thickness in the preferred embodiments of the present invention.

A composite perovskite oxide thin film heterostructure material is characterized by a high dielectric permittivity while simultaneously achieving low loss low leakage current density high voltage breakdown strength high dielectric tunability controlled and optimized film microstructure and smooth surface morphology with minimal surface defects.

One or more electrical contacts such as an electrode is disposed between the substrate and the lower layer and or in contact with the upper layer.

The substrate is a single crystal c axis oriented 0001 sapphire material in a particular embodiment of the present invention.

An embodiment of an integrated composite heterostructure material includes a lower layer which is crystallized SrTiOperovskite oxide on a substrate with a bottom electrode BE and an upper layer which is crystallized 5 mol Mg doped BaSrTiOperovskite oxide.

A method of fabricating an integrated composite bilayer heterostructure material is described herein including depositing SrTiOon a substrate with or without a bottom electrode crystallizing the SrTiOperovskite oxide producing a lower layer depositing 3 5 mol Mg doped BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive onto the lower layer crystallizing the BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive producing an producing an upper layer the upper layer having a bottom surface in contact with the lower layer and an opposing top surface.

The method of fabrication of the inventive heterostructure material is by a combinational film growth methodology which serves control and optimize the film microstructure which benefits the material properties. The combinational film growth fabrication method combines the attributes of two perovskite oxide film growth methods RF sputtering and the metallo organic solution deposition MOSD technique both techniques are industry standard CMOS compatible large area scalable and low cost. RF sputter deposition yields large grain textured films and high growth rates. MOSD offers ease of film compositional control ease of doping smooth defect pin hole free surface morphology and yields high growth rates. The combinational film growth methodology serves to control and optimize the film microstructure which benefits the material device performance properties.

The film deposition growth methodology preferably includes RF sputter deposition of the SrTiOlower layer and the 5 mol Mg doped BaSrTiO BST60 40 perovskite oxide upper layer is disposed onto the lower crystallized SrTiOlayer via the metallo organic solution deposition MOSD technique.

Optionally a bottom electrode is disposed on the substrate prior to deposition of the lower layer SrTiO. In a further option a top electrode is disposed in electrical communication with the top surface of the crystallized 5 mol Mg doped BST upper layer. This configuration enables metal insulator metal MIM tunable capacitor device designs.

Optionally the lower layer SrTiOis disposed on a substrates without a bottom electrode. In a further option a top electrode is disposed in electrical communication with the top surface of the crystallized 5 mol Mg doped BST60 40 upper layer. This configuration enables the co planar tunable capacitor device designs.

Optionally a bottom electrode is disposed on the substrate prior to deposition of the lower layer SrTiO. In a further option a ferromagnetic FM material is disposed onto the crystallized 5 mol Mg doped BST upper layer prior to disposing a top electrode in electrical communication with the top surface of the ferromagnetic layer. This configuration enables charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic device designs.

In a further option an adhesion material is disposed between the substrate and the bottom electrode. In a specific example a Ti layer is the adhesion material.

The film crystallization steps includes thermal treatment at temperature of 700 C. for 60 min. in oxygen ambience in particular embodiments of a method of the present invention.

A vertical that is parallel plate voltage controlled capacitor or varactor device is provided according to embodiments of the present invention which includes the integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure thin film material described herein. A coplanar tunable device is provided according to the embodiments of the present invention which includes the integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure thin film material described herein. A voltage controlled charge mediated magnetic device is provided according to the embodiments of the present invention which includes the integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure material described herein.

An integrated composite perovskite oxide thin film heterostructure material design and a combinational film growth fabrication method inclusive is provided to enhance elevate the materials dielectric permittivity while maintaining low loss low leakage current characteristics high breakdown fields strength high tunability controlled and optimized microstructure and smooth defect free surface morphologies. Furthermore the materials and related process science protocols are complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS compatible saleable and affordable. The material design and fabrication method thereof enables miniature highly voltage tunable frequency agile devices and or charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic devices for RF microwave communications RADAR and electronic warfare applications. Device components include but are not limited to voltage controlled phase shifters pre selector tunable filter devices oscillators delay lines parametric amplifiers matching networks and non reciprocal devices such as circulators isolators and gyrators.

In the present invention the integrated composite perovskite oxide material design and the combinational fabrication method inclusive is characterized by a high dielectric permittivity while simultaneously achieving enhanced tunability low loss low leakage current characteristics and high breakdown voltages. Additional material attributes are smooth defect free film surfaces and controlled optimized film microstructure inclusive.

In the present invention the integrated composite perovskite oxide material design consists of a thinner SrTiO STO film underlying a thicker acceptor doped BaSrTiO BST film to form the inventive integrated composite heterostructure.

An integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure material is provided according to the present invention which includes a lower layer of crystallized SrTiOperovskite oxide deposited on a substrate and an upper layer of crystallized BaSrTiObased perovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive in contact with the top surface of the lower layer.

A combinational perovskite oxide film growth fabrication methodology is provided according to the present invention which includes a RF sputter deposition of the SrTiOlower layer film and metallo organic solution deposition MOSD of the BaSrTiO based perovskite oxide upper layer film.

In specific embodiments an integrated composite bilayer heterostructure material according to the present invention includes a SrTiOperovskite oxide layer disposed on a substrate support an acceptor doped BaSrTiO BST 60 40 perovskite oxide layer disposed on the SrTiOperovskite oxide layer.

It is generally known that non linear dielectric materials can be used in a wide spectrum of radio frequency RF microwave MW tunable devices including phase shifters tunable filters delay lines resonators and oscillators because the relative dielectric constant of the material can be adjusted with the application of an external electric field. Barium strontium titanate BaSrTiOor BST is considered to be one of the forerunner material systems for realization of such tunable components as it has a strong non linear response to an applied electric field both in the paraelectric PE and ferroelectric FE states. It is well known that dielectric permittivity and associated tunability are enhanced for BST in the ferroelectric FE phase below the Curie temperature Tc relative to that in the paraelectric phase above the Tc however the dielectric losses are significantly higher below the Curie point the losses are associated with polarization switching as is hysteresis in the dielectric constant therefore BST is best utilized within device architectures in its PE state. Unfortunately for practical device applications even in the paraelectric state BST still suffers from achieving the required simultaneous maximization of high permittivity and tunability with minimization of dielectric losses leakage characteristics and enhanced break down field strength.

Generally small concentrations of acceptor dopants can modify the properties of perovskite oxide materials such as BST. Acceptor dopants such as Ni Al Ga Mn Fe Mg Co In Cr Sc etc. typically occupy the B site of the ABOperovskite structure substituting for Ti ions. The charge difference between the lower valence dopant and Ti can effectively compensate for oxygen vacancies and thereby have been shown to decrease dielectric losses. Thus acceptor doping of BST is beneficial to lower dielectric loss.

In specific embodiments of the present invention the upper BST layer is acceptor doped with Mg in the range of 2 7 mol inclusive more preferably 5 mol Mg. Mg doping of the thick BST upper layer serves to mitigate oxygen vacancies which in turn reduces the film s dielectric loss. The reduced dielectric loss will minimize signal attenuation and increase the Signal Noise ratio of the device which is composed of the inventive heterostructure.

It is generally known that SrTiOfilms are inherently low loss and possess low leakage current densities 10 10A cm and are structurally a good lattice and coefficient of thermal expansion CTE match to BST based films. Thus the SrTiOfilm serves to promote low dielectric loss and sustain low the leakage current densities and high break down fields while allowing compatible integration with the overlying 5 mol Mg doped BST film.

In specific embodiments of the present invention a thinner SrTiOlayer underlies a substantially thicker Mg doped BST upper layer.

Generally each of the perovskite oxide layers of an integrated composite heterostructure material of the present invention has a longest dimension generally parallel to the substrate and a thickness generally perpendicular to the substrate the longest dimension greater than the thickness.

In specific embodiments of the present invention each perovskite oxide layer is in the form of a thin film with the SrTiOlower layer having a nominal thickness in the range of about 8 to 20 nm inclusive more preferably in the range of about 9 nm to 17 nm inclusive and the 5 mol Mg doped BST layer having a nominal thickness in the range of about 300 to 150 nm inclusive but more preferably in the range of 200 to 180 nm. inclusive.

Generally a substrate support may be a single crystal low microwave loss substrate such as sapphire AlO MgO LaAlO GaAs CeO high resistivity Si quartz glass or similar support structures. Optionally the substrate is purified. An exemplary purification of a substrate for high resistivity silicon includes dipping the substrate in acetone and methanol followed by a weak HF solution to remove etch native oxide and then rinsing in de ionized DI water. Optionally a thermal oxidation layer is grown on high resistivity silicon for use as a substrate in methods compositions and apparatus of the present invention.

In preferred embodiments of the present invention a c plane 0001 epi ready sapphire substrate is used and prior to film or electrode deposition desirably the sapphire substrate is in situ purified by DC sputtering with Ar ions for 10 min at 3 mTorr and 50 W.

Configurations of the one or more electrodes depends on the intended device architecture and use of the integrated composite perovskite oxide SrTiO Mg doped BST thin film heterostructure material of the present invention. For example in particular embodiments of a parallel plate tunable capacitor or varactor device one or more bottom electrodes is disposed between a substrate support and the lower layer of the integrated composite SrTiO Mg doped BST heterostructure and one or more top electrodes is disposed on and in electrical communication with the top surface of the integrated composite SrTiO Mg doped BST heterostructure. Alternatively a co planar device configuration is provided having according to the present invention exclusive of bottom electrodes but including a top electrode disposed in contact with the top surface of an integrated composite SrTiO Mg doped BST heterostructure disclosed herein. Alternatively for the voltage tunable magnetic device one or more bottom electrodes is disposed between a substrate support and the lower layer of the integrated composite SrTiO Mg doped BST heterostructure and a ferromagnetic FM material is disposed on top of the integrated composite SrTiO BST thin film heterostructure after which a top electrode is disposed in electrical communication with the top surface of the FM layer. In particular embodiments an electrode including one or more noble metals is used desirably Pt is used as the electrode material.

A bottom electrode such as Pt having a nominal thickness in the range of about 150 nm to 200 nm inclusive is employed. In preferred embodiments of the present invention the Pt bottom electrode is 150 nm in thickness.

Desirably the Pt bottom electrode is DC sputter in an ambience of 100 Ar with a substrate temperature of 625 C. instrument set point actual temperature 450 C. 3 mTorr and 400 W.

Optionally an adhesive is disposed between the bottom Pt electrode and the substrate to promote adhesion of an electrode to the substrate. For example an adhesion material includes a layer of Ti wherein the Ti layer is positioned adjacent to the substrate. An adhesion layer is disposed between a substrate and a bottom electrode such that the relative order of the layers is substrate adhesion layer bottom electrode lower layer of crystallized SrTiOperovskite oxide upper layer of Mg doped BST perovskite oxide film in particular embodiments of the present invention. The thickness of the adhesion layer can range from 2 40 nm preferably in the range of 5 15 nm and in a preferred embodiment the adhesion layer is 7 nm. Additional illustrative adhesion materials are Cr and Pd.

For example a layer of Ti Cr or Pd is optionally disposed between a substrate and an electrode such that the relative order of the layers is substrate Ti Cr or Pd adhesion layer bottom electrode lower layer of the crystallized SrTiOperovskite oxide upper layer of the crystallized Mg doped BST perovskite oxide in particular embodiments of the present invention.

For top electrodes any material can be selected that will allow for good interface with the underlying film as well as permit low leakage current characteristics. The top electrode can be deposited by any appropriate physical and or chemical deposition process. The adhesion between the top electrode and the film can be improved by further heat treatment.

In particular embodiments a top electrode thin film material is Pt with a film thickness of 150 nm and is created by DC sputter deposition.

Desirably the adhesion of the top electrode to the underlying film is improved by thermal treatment at 400 C. for 10 minutes in an oxygen or air ambiance.

In specific embodiments of the present invention the integrated composite SrTiO Mg doped BST heterostructure is achieved utilizing a combinational film growth deposition fabrication technique that is industry standard scalable and cost effective. In specific the SrTiOperovskite oxide lower layer is RF sputter deposited onto the substrate the 5 mol Mg doped BaSrTiOperovskite oxide upper layer is deposited via the metallo organic solution deposition MOSD technique inclusive.

It is generally known that physical vapor deposition PVD of perovskite oxide films yields large grain sizes and or textured films. Large grain sizes are desirable since larger grains are linked to larger dielectric permittivities. Furthermore a larger grained microstructure yields less grain boundary area and since grain boundaries serve as high leakage paths leakage currents can be reduced by increasing the average grain size. Sputtering and pulsed laser deposition PLD methods are known examples of physical vapor deposition techniques.

Generally it is difficult to achieve accurate and controlled doping of BST films via PVD techniques like RF sputtering. However the MOSD technique offers an accurate and easy means for achieving acceptor doped BST films while at the same time promoting a morphologically smooth and defect pin hole free film surface which is required to achieve reliable film integration minimize breakdown shorting with top electrodes and or in the case of voltage controlled magnetic device configuration with the overlying FM film.

In specific embodiments of the present invention the SrTiOperovskite oxide lower layer is RF sputter deposited in an ambience of 90 Argon 10 oxygen from a stoichiometric composite SrTiOceramic target with substrate temperature of 700 C. instrument temperature set point actual temperature is 600 C. total pressure of 10 mTorr and power level of 150 W.

The film bottom electrode interface plays a major role in defining the materials leakage current characteristics. For example the existence of an amorphous phase at the film electrode interface voiding and or defects results in electrical degradation i.e. high leakage current densities associated with poor dielectric breakdown characteristics therefore the SrTiOfilm should be fully crystallized with minimal defects and voids to promote the device quality insulating values required to enhance the films dielectric breakdown field voltage.

Generally subsequent to deposition the lower layer SrTiOfilm the SrTiOfilm is fully crystallized via thermal processing such as rapid thermal annealing RTA thermal annealing and or conventional furnace annealing CFA in air and or oxygen ambience at temperatures in the range of 625 950 C. inclusive for a temporal duration in the range of 1 to 180 min inclusive.

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the SrTiOlower layer is crystallized via conventional furnace annealing in flowing oxygen at 700 C. for 60 minutes. Desirably as shown in the SrTiOfilm is well crystallized with an abrupt smooth defect and void free SrTiO BE interface without undesirable secondary interfacial phases. Such excellent interfacial quality promotes low leakage current characteristics. Furthermore as shown in a large grain microstructure SrTiOlower layer film according to an embodiment of the present invention is formed by RF sputtering. Specifically the crystallized SrTiOlower layer is a continuous film composed of a large grain microstructure with the longest grain size dimension parallel to the bottom electrode substrate and the shortest dimension equal to the film thickness which is perpendicular to the substrate the longest dimension is greater than the film thickness in the preferred embodiments of the present invention in a preferred embodiment of the present invention the grains are 17 nm in thickness and 42 nm in lateral length.

Generally the MOSD precursor solution required to create the Mg doped BST involves using carboxylate alkoxide precursors.

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the elements of the MOSD precursor solution required to create the Mg doped BST film involve barium acetate Ba CHCOOH strontium acetate Sr CHCOOH and titanium isopropoxide Ti CHO as precursors to form BST60 40. Acetic acid and 2 methoxyethanol HCOOHCHOH are used as solvents and magnesium acetate is employed as the acceptor dopant precursor. The viscosity of the precursor solution is adjusted using 2 methoxyethanol HCOOHCHOH . The precursor elements of the MOSD solution are stoichiometric to yield yMg 1 y BST where y 5 mol .

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the film formation method to achieve a high permittivity BST based film the SrTiOlower layer composed of a large single grain microstructure whose grains longest dimension is parallel to the substrate and the shortest dimension perpendicular to the substrate is employed as a template to create a large grain size microstructure in the over lying BST film. Desirably to further ensure large grain size microstructure of the BST based film the MOSD spin coat layer thickness is concentration and viscosity optimized to reduce the volume of nucleation hence ensure the Mg doped BST film growth from surface of the SrTiOlower layer film. The SrTiOlower layer surface produces nucleation sites to promote the heterogeneous nucleation and growth of the over lying Mg doped BST film and when combined with the MOSD optimized spin coat layer thinness the Mg doped BST overgrowth film will preferentially nucleate on the surface of the crystallized SrTiOlower layer film and not within the bulk film hence large grains and or textured films will result. Therefore the present invention is especially beneficial as the Mg doped BST over growth upper layer film will imitate mimic the SrTiOlower layer microstructure. illustrates the template effect of the present invention whereby the SrTiOlower layer which overlies a bottom electrode on a substrate serves as a template to create a large grain microstructure in each spin coat layer of the overlying Mg doped BST60 40 upper layer film . is a reproduction of a cross sectional view of a scanning electron microscope SEM micrograph showing the template effect whereby each spin coated layer of the Mg doped BST is composed of a large single grain microstructure which mimics the microstructure of the thin SrTiOlower layer film .

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the stoichiometric precursor solution to create the 5 mol Mg BST 60 40 film is concentration optimized as 0.23 M. Desirably the precursor solution is spin coated onto the crystallized SrTiOlower layer at 6000 rpm for 50 seconds. After each coating removal of the organic addenda is achieved by pyrolyzing the films on a hotplate at 350 C. for 10 minutes followed by a thermal treatment for 10 min. in flowing oxygen at 700 C. The spin coating pyrolysis and 10 min thermal treatment steps are repeated until the desired Mg doped BST60 40 film thickness is achieved. Crystallization of each spin coated Mg BST layer further enhances and translates the template effect for creating thicker BST based films with controlled and optimized large grain size microstructures.

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the final integrated perovskite oxide composite film heterostructure SrTiO Mg BST is crystallized via conventional furnace annealing CFA for 60 minutes at 700 C. in a flowing oxygen ambiance.

Desirably the concentration optimized MOSD precursor solution beneficially influences the Mg doped BST film quality. The solution concentration is optimized as 0.23 M which promotes a dilute precursor solution to enable a thin amorphous film to be formed with each spin coat step. The carbonaceous decomposition products or organic addenda are efficiently burned removed from the coating using a 350 C. 10 min. pyrolysis 700 C. 10 min. thermal treatment regime thus few embedded impurities remain. In specific at this preferred precursor solution concentration level the spin coated layers are sufficiently thin such that as each layer is deposited over the prior pyrolyzed thermally treated layer it is able to cover mask the pores and defects left behind by the burn off of the organic addenda. A beneficial consequence is that during the final annealing step 700 C. 60 min. there are minimal imbedded impurities to burn off which mitigates undesirable pores thereby producing a fully dense well crystallized pin hole free surface high quality BST60 40 film. Furthermore the 350 C. 10 min. pyrolysis 700 C. 10 min. thermal treatment combined with the final crystallization annealing step 700 C. 60 min. promotes a smooth defect pin hole free top film surface hence allows reliable integration with all overlying films mitigates electrical shorts and premature voltage breakdown.

An integrated composite SrTiO Mg doped BST thin film heterostructure material of the present invention is integrated into device architectures. For example a vertical that is parallel plate voltage controlled capacitor or varactor device a coplanar tunable device and a voltage controlled charge mediated magnetic device described herein.

In particular embodiments of the inventive integrated SrTiO Mg doped BST heterostructure material design and method of fabrication thereof several material response properties of a beneficial nature are achieved 

The permittivity of the inventive composite heterostructure can be tailored as a function of the relative thickness of the SrTiOlayer h h h where his the thickness of the SrTiOlayer and his the thickness of the Mg BST over layer i.e. the upper layer . The thinner the SrTiOlayer the smaller fraction of the total film thickness and the smaller the value of the higher the dielectric permittivity. For the present invention a high permittivity is achieved for 0.01.

Table 1 below displays the experimental data demonstrating the material properties for the integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure material according to an embodiment of the present invention.

Table 1 displays the experimental data which shows that the inventive composite heterostructure and the method of fabrication thereof inclusive is effective to maintain a low dielectric loss less than or equal to 2.5 within the elevated permittivity range of 471 to 491. Low dielectric loss enhances or maximizes the systems communication signal in both transmit and receive modes. High permittivity associated with the inventive integrated composite heterostructure enables device miniaturization. Maximizing the dielectric response permittivity of BST is critical for realizing RF MW device miniaturization. For tunable BST based RF MW devices e.g. resonators etc. the size of the device at any particular resonant frequency depends on the inverse square root of the dielectric constant of the BST film thus the larger the dielectric constant the smaller the device component. Therefore the highest dielectric permittivity of the inventive heterostructure ensures device miniaturization as well as enhanced tunability. Miniaturization beneficially decreases device size and weight. High tunability beneficially reduces part count and cost in a system architecture. For charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic devices the high dielectric permittivity associated with the inventive integrated composite heterostructure serves to facilitate more charge for a given applied field hence enhancing the magnetoelectric ME coupling coefficient to enable an enhanced magnetic response. Charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic devices enabled by the high permittivity inventive heterostructure eliminate the need for biasing magnetic devices with a large magnet and enable integrated on chip nonreciprocal devices with improved Size Weight and Power SWaP Figure of Merit. Permanent magnets require manual calibration which makes the current technology expensive 700 device . Charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic devices eliminate need for mechanical tuning on assembly line and decrease production cost allows faster calibration. Nonreciprocal components offer relatively narrow bandwidths vs. reciprocal devices. Charge mediated voltage controlled magnetic devices offer frequency agility of nonreciprocal devices extend effective bandwidth BW thus enhances performance. Thus compared to state of the art nonreciprocal and or tunable RF microwave magnetic devices that are controlled by electromagnets such voltage tunable RF microwave devices enabled by the converse magnetoelectric effect and the high dielectric permittivity of the inventive heterostructure would be more compact lightweight and power efficient.

An inventive integrated heterostructure material included in a voltage tunable device such as a variable capacitor or varactor confers the advantages of high tunability. Tunability is defined as C Co where C is the change in capacitance relative to zero bias capacitance Co is an important performance parameter which is a function of applied bias. Generally for a tunability value to be of practical use in device structures it must be obtained in concert with low dielectric loss and leakage currents.

In particular embodiments involving the inventive integrated heterostructure material in an MIM tunable capacitor configuration the dielectric tunability is 56 at 300 kV cm and 65 at 400 kV cm. Specifically the tunability of the tunable device such as a phase shifter including the inventive integrated heterostructure is increased by 86 with respect to that of MOSD fabricated uniform composition 5 mol Mg doped BST60 40 Table 1 . Further the enhanced tunability is achieved in concert with low loss 2.5 and low leakage current density 10A cmrange.

Enhanced elevated tunability at a low applied field exhibited by the inventive integrated heterostructure material is important since for example in a tunable device phase shifter circuit higher tunability allows for fewer tuning elements which are cascaded to achieve the desired phase shift. The decrease in the amount of tuning elements directly reduces the net circuit loss. The net decrease in amount of tuning elements lowers the system cost. In another example tunable filter a high tunability over a broad frequency range enables fewer filter banks to be incorporated into a system hence reduces the part component count and cost.

Desirably the high tunability is accomplished at low voltage levels i.e. less than 10 volts which is compatible with the voltage requirements of present day semiconductor systems.

Leakage current is a very sensitive material property and can be considered a measure of film quality. Since most devices operate under DC bias or pulsed DC electrical load low leakage currents over a large range of applied voltage are desirable. Furthermore leakage current is a power loss mechanism that can result in battery drain and thus a low leakage current is required to minimize power consumption or battery draw of a device. Leakage current characteristics are influenced by many factors such as film electrode interface characteristics electrode composition and structure deposition and annealing conditions defects oxygen vacancies under the electric field migrate towards the electrode and aggregate near the electrode interface and the film microstructure and composition.

Table 1 displays experimental data which shows that an inventive integrated composite heterostructure material is effective to reduce the leakage current density characteristics by a maximum of 87.5 at an applied field of 100 kV cm inclusive with respect to uniform composition Mg doped BST films. 9 nm 7.0 10vs. uniform composition Mg BST films 56.0 10A cm .

Further Table 1 displays experimental data which shows that an inventive integrated heterostructure material is effective to reduce the leakage current density characteristics by a maximum of 95.5 at an applied field of 300 kV cm inclusive hence the present invention serves to promote enhanced breakdown field strength. In specific the inventive integrated heterostructure material showed no evidence of voltage breakdown at high electric field 300 kV cm.

The forward leakage characteristics are determined by the film and the bottom electrode Pt film SrTiO interface. The inherent low loss nature of the SrTiOfilm in direct contact with the Pt bottom electrode promotes minimization of the inventive integrated composite perovskite oxide composite heterostructure s leakage current density. Further the film bottom electrode interface plays a major role in defining the materials leakage current characteristics. As shown in the abrupt smooth defect and void free SrTiO BE interface without undesirable secondary interfacial phases of the inventive integrated composite perovskite oxide composite heterostructures is desirable for achieving low leakage current densities and high break down field fields.

Film microstructure also influences a film s insulation properties. A large grain size microstructure yields less grain boundary area and since grain boundaries serve as high leakage paths leakage currents can be reduced by increasing the average grain size. Desirably a large grain and or textured microstructure SrTiOlower layer film according to an embodiment of the present invention is formed by RF sputtering. In specific the SrTiOlower layer is a continuous film composed of large grains blocky quasi columnar microstructure whose longest dimension is parallel to the substrate and shortest dimension is perpendicular to the substrate spanning the entire thickness of the film . Desirably the large grain size microstructure with its minimal grain boundary area in combination with the template effect to create a large grain size microstructure in the over lying BST film enables low leakage current density and high breakdown voltage strength Table 1 . Low leakage current densities and high voltage breakdown strength beneficially promotes low battery power draw power savings and ensures material device long term operational reliability.

More specifically an inventive integrated heterostructure material design inclusive of the large grain size RF sputter deposited 9 and 17 nm SrTiOlower layer combined with the viscosity and molarity optimized Mg doped BST60 40 spin coat precursor solution is effective to control the microstructure of the overlying BST film. More specifically as shown in each layer of the MOSD Mg doped BST film is composed of large single grains with vertical dimensions extending the full spin coated layer thickness . The single grain layer structure is contrary to that of traditional MOSD fabricated films which consists of a randomly orientated small size multi grain microstructure distributed throughout the entire film thickness. This result demonstrates that the SrTiOlower layer serves as a template to modify the microstructure of the Mg doped BST film over growth upper layer in a desirable fashion i.e. enhanced grain size. In specific this template effect is effective to enhance the grain size of the composite heterostructure film within the range of 114 to 155 compared to uniform composition 5 mol Mg doped BST60 40 films Table 1 .

The excellent leakage characteristics in conjunction with the fact that the change in film leakage current in response to applied bias from 100 to 300 kV cm is small dielectric breakdown with its associated high leakage current density characteristics or failure is not an issue. It is known that the breakdown field of BST thin films increases with decreasing grain size. The inventive material design and fabrication methodology thereof inclusive enables the template effect to promote a large grain microstructure in the Mg doped BST 60 40 film in concert with a smooth pin hole free surface morphology is beneficial to reduce the leakage current density of the heterostructure and promote reliable integration with an overlying electrical contact and or other film.

There is a notable variation in grain size of the Mg doped BST upper layer film as a function of the lower SrTiOlayer thickness within the integrated composite perovskite oxide heterostructure material. For example data presented in Table 1 shows that the uniform composition 5 mol Mg doped BST60 40 without a SrTiOlower layer control film and a thick 41 nm SrTiOlower layer Mg doped BST composite film heterostructure possess similar and significantly smaller grain size 49 and 40 nm with respect to that of the inventive 9 and 17 nm integrated composite film heterostructure with grain sizes of 105 and 125 nm respectively. It is well established that a larger grain size leads to a larger dielectric permittivity. Generally a smaller grain size lowers the permittivity due to the larger percentage of grain boundary area. Grain boundaries are considered as disrupted regions of the film which are believed to possess a lower permittivity than the bulk material. For example it is established that in BST 50 50 thin films with a relative dielectric permittivity of 200 700 the permittivity of the grain boundary region may be as low as 40. For RF sputtered SrTiOfilms it has been established that there exists an excess Ti associated with grain boundaries as a TiOphase. For sputter deposited SrTiOfilms the cause of the excess Ti is also attributed to re sputtering and or re evaporation. It is generally known that a large excess of Ti can decrease the dielectric permittivity significantly. displays a schematic model showing the excess Ti accumulation in the grain boundary of the SrTiOfilms as the sputter time and the resultant film thickness is increased. The SrTiOfilms illustrated in are sputtered deposited on a bottom electrode overlying a substrate support . The measured permittivity values tabulated in Table I and shown graphically in are the effective permittivity of the composite films which includes the permittivity of both the SrTiOlower layer and the Mg BST overgrowth film . In other words the composite heterostructure is electrostatically coupled and the two films as a first order approximation can be considered as a capacitor configuration connected in series . Considering the increased sputter deposition time and increased SrTiOlayer thickness with its associated continual re sputtering and or re evaporation effects of excess Ti it is suggested that the thicker 41 nm sputtered SrTiOfilm longer sputter time of 60 minutes would have a higher contribution of low permittivity material TiOphase incorporated into the grain boundary versus that of shorter sputter time 9 and 17 nm SrTiOfilms . The results tabulated in Table 1 demonstrate that the composite films composed of the thinner SrTiOlower layer films 9 and 17 nm with their shorter respective sputter times 13 and 25 minutes possess the highest permittivity values of 471 and 491 with respect to that of the composite film with the considerably thicker 41 nm 60 min. sputter time 362 SrTiOfilm . Thus thinness of the SrTiOlower layer film ensures minimization of the low permittivity grain boundary phase which would depress the dielectric permittivity. The low permittivity of the control uniform composition 5 mol Mg doped BST film is attributed to its small grain size microstructure.

The combination of shorter sputter times for the thinner 9 and 17 nm SrTiOlower layers hence smaller amount of low permittivity material within the grain boundaries in concert with the larger grain MOSD overgrowth film due to the template effect from the large grain microstructure SrTiOlower layer film is responsible for the larger net or effective permittivities of these films with respect to the composite heterostructure film with the significantly thicker 41 nm SrTiOlower layer and the uniform composition Mg BST control film. Furthermore the fact that the grain size of the composite film with the thickest 41 nm SrTiOlower layer is approximately three times smaller than the composite films with the thinner lower layers suggests that there is a critical thickness h 9 nm h 

Experimental results tabulated in Table 1 and the plan view and 3 D AFM micrographs shown in the inventive integrated heterostructure material is effective to maintain smooth a 

Furthermore the material and related process science must be foundry friendly standard to the semiconductor industry and or CMOS compatible to insure affordable IC integration and manufacturability. In other words for an integrated SrTiO Mg doped thin film heterostructure material innovation to be useful and employed in engineering applications it must be commercially viable. To be commercially relevant thin film processes technologies must enjoy the economy of scale and affordability associated with the semiconductor industry. Thus the film growth fabrication processes must possess the semiconductor industry standard attributes to include but not limited to low cost large diameter substrate type e.g. Si GaAs III V sapphire etc. with wafer diameters 4 inches large area cost and time effective film growth sputtering e beam CVD dip spin coating etc. low to moderate process temperatures to facilitate materials integration and the required lithographic etching and passivation process steps T 800 C. compatibility with foundry cluster tools e.g. wafer size and temperature requirements utilize standard growth tools . The integrated thin film heterostructure and fabrication methods thereof are low temperature 800 C. large area scalable to 12 inches employ integration compatibility with substrate support wafers used in the semiconductor industry sapphire Si and III V substrates and utilize industry standard film growth deposition tools.

An integrated heterostructure material is achieved by combining the attributes of two perovskite oxide film growth methods RF sputtering and MOSD in combination with employing a novel material design consisting of a SrTOthin film layer which serves as a template to achieve a property enhanced i.e. elevated BST based film overgrowth. In specific the integrated materials design consists of a thin RF sputtered SrTiOfilm lower layer which underlies a substantially thicker MOSD over growth BST based film upper layer . Both film growth techniques are foundry friendly cost effective offer high deposition rates and yield large area films. More specifically the processing methods are low temperature 

