---

title: Downtilt selection in a full dimensional multiple-input multiple-output system
abstract: A technology for an enhanced node B (eNode B) in a cellular network that is operable to determine downtilt using full dimensional (FD) multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO). A plurality of orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) signals can be transmitted, wherein each transmitted OFDMA signal is transmitted with a selected downtilt angle from a two dimensional antenna array of the eNode B. Reference signal received power (RSRP) feedback information can be received from a UE for each of transmitted OFDMA signals at the selected downtilt angles. Received signal strength indicator (RSSI) feedback information can be received from the UE. A reference signal received quality (RSRQ) can be calculated for each of the selected antennas angles using the RSRP feedback information and the RSSI feedback information. A downtilt angle can be selected for transmitting data from the eNode B with a highest signal to interference plus noise ratio (SINR).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09585174&OS=09585174&RS=09585174
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09585174
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140331
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 859 121 filed Jul. 26 2013.

Multiple input and multiple output MIMO technology is the use of multiple antennas at both one or more transmitters and one or more receivers. A MIMO system can be used to increase data throughput and link reliability of a network without increasing bandwidth frequencies or increasing transmit power of the network. To achieve the increased data throughput and link reliability the data communicated between a node and a mobile device can be spread over the multiple antennas to achieve an array gain that improves the spectral efficiency and achieve a diversity gain that increases the link reliability. Massive MIMOs can deploy a large number of elements in antenna arrays. Multiple terminals can be deployed for combining a massive MIMO technology with conventional time and frequency division multiplexing using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM .

Three dimensional 3D or full dimensional FD MIMO systems can be used in MIMO networks to enhance the cellular performance by deploying antenna elements in both horizontal and vertical dimensions e.g. a two dimensional 2D antenna array. A FD MIMO system can direct communications in two dimensions i.e. horizontally and vertically to a location in three dimensional 3D space. The direction of communications in 3D space can increase the directionality allowing for increased numbers of communication paths more focused beamforming and increased throughput for spatial multiplexing in comparison with traditional two dimensional MIMO systems.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

In a communications network throughput can be affected by both the signal strength and interference strength. The throughput of a network can be increased by balancing a ratio between a signal strength and an interference level of nodes in a network. One technique for balancing signal strength and interference strength for nodes in a network can be to use beamforming. Beamforming can be used for an antenna array to direct or control signal transmission directions. In conventional two dimensional 2D multiple input and multiple output MIMO systems beamforming can be performed in a horizontal domain. A 2D MIMO system in a communication system can include a plurality of cell sites each having a node such as an evolved Node B eNode B or base station for sending and receiving signals over one or more antennas or antenna modules. In one embodiment each antenna module can have one or more receiving antennas and one or more transmit antennas. In another embodiment each antenna module can have one antenna to transmit and receive data.

The antenna array can be mounted on a transmission point such as an enhanced Node B eNode B with a corresponding coverage area . The horizontal directivity provided by the array is depicted by the beam direction geometries and . A beam direction geometry also referred to as a radiation pattern can depict a region with respect to the transmission point where a corresponding signal is highest but the corresponding signal may be present in other regions as well. The curved arrow indicates that the three different beam direction geometries or side lobes that belong to a continuum of different possibilities.

In the 3D MIMO system a radiation pattern of a transmitting antenna at a node can be tilted along a vertical axis. The degree of the vertical tilting or the tilting angle can be measured relative to a horizontal plain of reference. The tilting angle can be referred to as the downtilt angle of the antenna. The downtilt angle of the antenna can be measured to be positive from the horizontal reference plain of the antenna towards the ground. For example an antenna with a downtilt angle of 10 degrees tilts towards the ground at a 10 degree angle relative to the horizontal reference.

The antenna elements in the antenna array can have their phases and amplitudes configured to enable the antenna array to transmit to a desired coverage area which is a geographic area in which a mobile terminal can receive a signal with a sufficient strength to communicate with a node associated with the antenna array. A coverage area range and or scope of an antenna array can be affected by the electronic downtilt angle of each antenna and or downtilt angles of surrounding and or adjacent antennas in the antenna array

For a traditional 2D MIMO system the downtilt of the antenna elements in an antenna array of an eNode B can be held constant and a user equipment UE can measure a reference signal received power RSRP and or a reference signal received quality RSRQ for each node associated with a cell in order to assist the eNode B to make a cell association decision. In one embodiment the RSRP can be used for intra frequency cell association and the RSRQ can be used for inter frequency cell association.

RSRP can be defined as a linear average of the power contributions in Watts of resource elements that carry cell specific reference signals within a selected measurement frequency bandwidth. A reference point for the RSRP can be the antenna connector of the UE. In one embodiment when a receiver diversity is used by the UE the RSRP may not be lower than the corresponding RSRP of any of the individual diversity branches.

For a 3D FD MIMO system beamforming can be performed in both the horizontal and vertical dimensions. In 3D FD MIMO systems elevation or vertical beamforming can be used to either increase the signal strength of a cell and or decrease signal interference to neighboring cells. In one embodiment elevation beamforming in 3D FD MIMO systems can be used to optimize cell association selection by the eNode B. For example elevation beamforming can be used to optimize an azimuth and downtilting of each cell in the 3D FD MIMO system for different traffic distributions. In one embodiment maximizing a signal strength or minimizing a signal interference separately or independent of each other may not optimize or increase a signal to interference ratio SIR signal to noise ratio SNR or signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR of a network. In one embodiment interference minimization and signal strength maximization can be performed together to maximize the SIR SNR and or SINR of a network e.g. maximize throughput.

Traditionally in 3D FD MIMO systems a UE computes an RSRP in a moving average fashion and assumes that the 3D FD MIMO system does not change any downtilt angles of a cell. Computing an RSRP using a moving average can mix distinct responses for eNode Bs with different downtilts and can prevent eNode Bs from identifying different downtilts of cells that are favorable to the overall network.

In one embodiment a UE can compute the RSRP feedback for a selected downtilt of a cell. In another embodiment the UE can compute the RSRP feedback for the selected downtilt of the cell without averaging the RSRP across the resource elements of other cell downtilts.

Traditionally a mobility measurement is based on either an RSRP or an RSRQ. The RSRP can consider a common reference signal CRS receiving power of one cell e.g. not reflecting the load conditions of both the cell and neighboring or adjacent cells. The RSRQ can be derived from a RSRP and the total receiving power of a cell. For example RSRQ can be defined as a ratio N RSRP evolved universal terrestrial radio access carrier received signal strength indication where N is the number of resource blocks RBs of the evolved universal terrestrial radio access E UTRA carrier received signal strength indication RSSI measurement bandwidth. In one embodiment the NxRSRP and the E UTRA carrier RSSI measurements can be made over a same set of resource blocks.

In one embodiment an E UTRA Carrier RSSI can comprise a linear average of a total received power in Watts observed for orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols containing reference symbols for an antenna port such as antenna port 0 in a measurement bandwidth over N number of resource blocks by the UE from all sources. The sources of the network can include co channel serving cells non serving cells adjacent channel interference thermal noise and so forth.

When higher layer signaling indicates selected subframes for performing RSRQ measurements then RSSI can measured over all OFDM symbols in the indicated subframes. In one embodiment a reference point for the RSRQ can be an antenna connector of the UE. In another embodiment when receiver diversity is in use by the UE a reported value may not be lower than the corresponding RSRQ of any of the individual diversity branches.

In one embodiment the eNode Bs can select the optimum downtilts by measuring different downtilts using reference signals at different downtilt angles to the UEs. Each UE can then conduct RSRQ measurements on the reference signals and communicate the RSRQ measurement information to the eNode B. This enables the eNode B to determine an optimal downtilt angle without the need to send data at different downtilts. The communication of reference signals or data at different angles is referred to as testing downtilts.

In one embodiment radio resource management RRM measurements can be derived from the RSRQ of a serving cell and used to infer inter cell interference for testing downtilts of neighboring cells. When the network obtains enough measurement reports for different testing downtilts the network can determine the downtilts of each cell to optimize the SNR or SINR for the network.

In one embodiment a channel state information interference measurement resource CSI IM can be used for CSI reporting. For example for transmission mode 10 one CSI reporting instance can be associated with one non zero power NZP CSI RS resource and one CSI IM to measure interference respectively. The NZP CSI RS can be used to measure channel response and the CSI IM can be used to measure interference.

In one embodiment CSI RS and CSI IM can be used for downtilt control. For example illustrates that a CSI RS based RSRQ can be derived from a non zero power CSI RS and a CSI IM with new measurement or computation procedures. For example the average power of REs of CSI RS can be used as CSI RS RSRP. The average receiving power of REs of interference measurement resource IMR are used as emulated inter cell interference. An IMR is a reference signal RS resource for interference measurements such as interference assessments at a UE for neighboring cells. In this example a CSI RS configuration 0 can be used for NZP CSI RS and a configuration 4 can be used for the IMR. In one embodiment a selected cell does not transmit reference signals on the IMR resource elements and the neighboring cells send reference signals with selected downtilts. In one example where the test selected downtilts are not optimum for the network neighboring cells can use the candidate downtilts for the IMR signals for non genuine data sent from the neighboring cells to UEs in the neighboring cells.

In one embodiment a new E UTRA RSSI that is the denominator of the RSRQ can be different from the existing RSSI. In one embodiment the new RSSI can be the sum of the RSRP and the averaged received power measured from the IMR REs. The new RSSI can contain information about the testing downtilts and contain no information about incumbent downtilts carrying the non genuine data of the neighboring cells. In another embodiment the new RSSI can be the sum of the average received power measured from NZP CSI RS and IMR. illustrates RSRQ derivation from one NZP CSI RS and one IMR. In this embodiment the RSSI can contain aggregated information about selected downtilts and incumbent downtilts.

In the IMR REs the network can try different downtilts on the neighbor cells at different subframes or resource blocks. Traditionally interference generated by different downtilts in neighboring cells is averaged by the UE and the eNode B cannot distinguish the effects of different downtilts from the RSRQ received from the UE. In one embodiment to prevent averaging across different downtilts restrictions and signaling can be used to assist the UE to determine an averaging region for each downtilt.

In one embodiment the restrictions can be over subframes physical resource blocks or REs in an IMR resource. For example when the interference average length in time is 2 subframes the UE can assume the interference to be constant in subframe 2n and 2n 1. In this example the UE can use an averaged E UTRA RSSI of subframes 2n and 2n 1 to derive the CSI RS RSRQ in subframe 2n 1. In another example when an interference average length in frequency is at every 2nd physical resource block PRB a UE can assume the interference to be constant in PRB 2n 2n 2 2n 4. In this example where the UE cannot assume the interference in the even PRBs is equal to the interference in the odd PRBs the UE can derive two different RSRQ values for the odd and even PRBs in the same subframe respectively.

In another example four REs of an IMR can be used for the testing of different selected downtilts. In this example a sub IMR can specify how interference can be averaged. In one embodiment the sub IMR can be a function of a subframe a PRB index and an RE index in one IMR. The sub IMR can be used for unique inter cell interference testing.

In one embodiment the RSRP and RSRQ measurements can be for each cell of the communications network to allow the measuring of an RSRQ for each IMR or sub IMR. The current MeasObjectEUTRA information element can be updated as below 

In one example when a UE is in a radio resource control RRC connected mode the muting pattern can be transmitted to the UE using RRC signaling. For the RRC connected mode the MeasObjectEUTRA information element can be updated as 

In another embodiment the RSRQ can be derived using interference emulation with multiple CSI RS resources. illustrates using RSSI derivation from multiple CSI RS resources to determine an RSRQ. shows a UE configured with three CSI RS resources such as a first CSI RS resource a second CSI RS resource and a third CSI RS resource . The average Rx power of REs of CSI RScan be used as the CSI RS RSRP of the first CSI RS resource . The average Rx power of REs of CSI RScan be used as the CSI RS RSRP of the second CSI RS resource . The average Rx power of REs of CSI RScan be used as the CSI RS RSRP of the third CSI RS resource .

In one embodiment each CSI RS resource can be split into multiple sub CSI RS resources similar to the sub IMRs discussed in the preceding paragraphs. The sub CSI RSs can be a function of a subframe a PRB index and an RE index in one CSI RS. In one embodiment the UE can filter and report the RSRP for each sub CSI RS to the network. In one example where the network selected a downtilt and is aware of the downtilts used for each sub CSI RS resource the network can calculate the RSRQ for a selected downtilt hypothesis using the reported RSRP of the corresponding sub CSI RSs. In another embodiment the network can determine hand over decisions based on a calculated RSRQ.

In one embodiment the eNode B can use a selected downtilt for the actual reference signals and data channels. The UE can generate an RSRP feedback and an RSRQ feedback for the network to determine the optimum or maximum combination of downtilts for the current network. In one embodiment the allocations of different downtilts can be communicated to the UE for feedback computation to enable the eNode B to distinguish the effects of different downtilts on the network.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a UE in a cellular network that is operable to communicate reference signal information for selected downtilt angles as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality can be implemented as a method or the functionality can be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to receive at the UE a plurality of orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA signals as in block . In one embodiment each received OFDMA signal is transmitted with a selected downtilt angle from a two dimensional antenna array of the enhanced Node B eNode B . The computer circuitry can be further configured to communicate to the eNode B reference signal received power RSRP feedback information for each of the received OFDMA signals at the selected downtilt angles as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to communicate to the eNode B received signal strength indicator RSSI feedback information to enable the UE to receive the OFDMA signals from the two dimensional antenna array at a downtilt angle with an increased signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR as in block .

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to calculate the RSSI by summing the RSRP and an averaged received power measured from an IMR RE. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to include interference from one or more nodes adjacent to the eNode B in the cellular network by calculating the RSSI by summing an averaged received power measured from a NZP CSI RS and an IMR. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to determine an averaging region for a downtilt of the one or more adjacent nodes. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to calculate the RSSI for one of the selected downtilt angles at each of a plurality of sub IMRs. In another embodiment the each of the sub IMRs is a portion of the IMR and includes a subframe physical resource block PRB index and a resource element RE index. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive a sub CSI RS for each of the selected downtilt angles wherein the sub CSI RS is a portion of the CSI RS and includes a subframe physical resource block PRB index and a resource element RE index. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to filter the RSRP based on each sub CSI RS and communicate the filtered RSRP to the eNode B. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to determine interference from one or more nodes adjacent to the eNode B in the cellular network by using a PSS or a SSS with a time domain muting pattern for RSRP and interference measurement. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive the PSS or SSS via radio resource control RRC signaling. In another embodiment each node of the network has a different time domain muting pattern.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of an eNode B in a cellular network that is operable to determine downtilt using full dimensional FD multiple input multiple output MIMO as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality can be implemented as a method or the functionality can be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to transmit a plurality of orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA signals as in block . In one embodiment each transmitted OFDMA signal is transmitted with a selected downtilt angle from a two dimensional antenna array of the eNode B. The computer circuitry can be further configured to receive from a user equipment UE reference signal received power RSRP feedback information for each of transmitted OFDMA signals at the selected downtilt angles as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to receive from the UE received signal strength indicator RSSI feedback information as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to calculate a reference signal received quality RSRQ for each of the selected antennas angles using the RSRP feedback information and the RSSI feedback information as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to select a downtilt angle for transmitting data from the eNode B with a highest signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR as in block .

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to calculate an inferred inter node interference value for one or more adjacent nodes in the cellular network based on the selected antennas angles. In another embodiment the inter cell interference is generated by the cell specific reference signals CRS or physical downlink shared channel PDSCH of the one or more adjacent nodes. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to communicate to the UE a time domain muting pattern for RSRP measurement and interference measurement using RRC signaling. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to determine a channel state information reference signal CSI RS based RSRQ using a non zero power CSI RS and a channel state information interference measurement CSI IM . In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive RSRP for each of a plurality of sub CSI RSs. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to calculate an RSRQ for a selected downtilt using an RSRP that corresponds to the sub CSI RS.

In one embodiment the method can further comprise receiving an RSRQ from the UE and determining a downtilt with the highest signal to noise ratio SNR or signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR based on the RSRP and the received RSRQ. In one embodiment the method can further comprise communicating to the UE a downtilt value for a CSI RS for each of the selected downtilt angles for the UE to use to identify a downtilt angle with a highest signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

