---

title: Method and apparatus for measurement of physical properties of matter under simultaneous control of radio frequency and variable temperatures
abstract: An apparatus allows a sample mounted within a temperature controlled radome system to be tested. The apparatus maintains the sample under controlled temperatures and allows radiation from a radiation source to expose the sample to broadband electromagnetic radiation of varying power, frequency and angle of incidence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09464993&OS=09464993&RS=09464993
owner: The United States of America as represented by Secretary of the Navy
number: 09464993
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140331
---
The United States Government has ownership rights in this invention. Licensing inquiries may be directed to Office of Research and Technical Applications Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center Pacific Code 72120 San Diego Calif. 92152 telephone 619 553 5118 email ssc pac t2 navy.mil. Reference Navy Case No. 102193.

In the fields of electronic surveillance telecommunications biology medicine and explosive devices for example there is a need to investigate the interaction of samples with electromagnetic radiation EMR at different frequencies and at different levels and directions while simultaneously exposing the samples to a controlled temperature environment. Such samples may include solid state devices biological samples and or samples in liquid or gaseous state. The fundamental properties of a sample may depend on the temperature at which the sample is kept the frequency of the electromagnetic wave that is incident to the sample and the angle and power of the incident wave.

Some properties of electronic components can only be measured when the component is sufficiently cooled. For example some electronic components are specifically designed to detect RF radiation but such detection is possible only when the component is adequately cool. Additionally for example some infrared sensors only work at low temperatures as higher temperatures cause enough thermal noise to obscure sensing the signal of interest. Some biological samples for example may be easier to work with when cooled as known levels of radiation are necessary to kill certain types of viruses or cells when the biological sample is cooled to a known temperature.

Thus there is a need to investigate characterize and test samples when the samples are cooled to certain desired temperatures while the sample is simultaneously exposed at different angles and power of broadband electromagnetic energy ranging from DC to Tera Hertz frequencies. There is also a need to measure the responses of a sample to incoming broadband EMR from DC to Tera Hertz and to measure how the incident EMR alters the property and performance of the sample. There is however no current method for measuring a sample cooled for example from 3 Kelvin K up to 350 K while the sample is exposed to electromagnetic radiation from DC to Tera Hertz in particular for wavelengths below infrared commonly referred to as the radio spectrum .

Some embodiments described herein provide an apparatus that includes a refrigeration system configured to provide controlled cooling to a sample and a connection interface configured to connect the refrigeration system with a radome system where the sample is placed. The radome system is configured to allow a radiation source to expose the sample to controlled and or free space broadband electromagnetic radiation in various frequency ranges to maintain the sample in a controlled temperature while the sample is exposed to the broadband electromagnetic radiation and to be transparent to the broadband electromagnetic radiation directed to the sample.

Other objects advantages and features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanied drawings.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention.

The apparatus and method components have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

System includes a refrigeration system and a radome system . Refrigeration system provides a cold source to radome system and may include a mechanical refrigeration system for example such as a cryocooler that uses a vibration isolator to isolate the vibrations of cryocooler from a cryostat . Alternatively cryocooler and vibration damper of refrigeration system may be replaced with a reservoir of coolant such as liquid helium or a system that does not involve a coolant such as adiabatic magnetization cooling utilizing the magneto caloric effect.

Cryostat is configured to maintain temperature control of a sample and keep a sample under a vacuum and or controlled gas atmosphere. Diagnostic interface is configured to allow electrical coupling to radome system or to another component such as a diagnostics component. System may also include a response unit not shown to record responses from a sample exposed to different radiation frequencies while the sample is maintained under controlled temperatures.

As will be further explained internal interfaces connect refrigeration system to radome system so that a sample placed within radome system is within a controlled temperature environment. As can be seen radome system has an external radome and an internal radome placed within external radome to be further described.

External radome is made of a material that is substantially transparent to broadband electromagnetic radiation and is configured to maintain internal vacuum integrity of system . External radome may be made of non metallic materials such as Teflon or quartz. Internal radome is also substantially transparent to broadband electromagnetic radiation and is of a non metallic material with a high level of thermal conductivity for example ceramic Beryllium Oxide. As one skilled in the art will know for either radome the electromagnetic transparency of the material chosen will be contingent upon the choice of dielectric constant loss tangent as well as other pertinent electrical parameters.

A cooling characteristic of cryostat allows a first stage cooling aspect to be directed to internal radome . An internal interface of cryostat interfaces directly with internal radome . The inherent thermal conductivity of the radome in conjunction with a vacuum provided between inner radome and outer radome allows radome to be cooled to a first stage cooling temperature for example 40K.

In a mechanical refrigeration embodiment helium gas is cycled in cryocooler and the gas is condensed such that the resulting liquid helium bathes and cools down a sample holder that is directly interfaced with a second stage cooling aspect of cryostat . Sample holder is made of any suitable good thermal conductor such as copper sapphire or beryllium oxide. As shown sample holder is designed to be inserted into the internal radome and is where samples to be tested are placed. Sample holder as well as its accompanying sample reaches a second stage cooling temperature lower that the first stage cooling temperature for example a second stage cooling temperature of 4K. The sample placed in the internal radome may be mounted in vacuum or in gas and is vibration isolated or otherwise kept under mechanical isolation control. The internal radome is of a material that is a good thermal conductor but is also of a material designed to not influence on the electromagnetic waves being directed to the sample such that any responses to the electromagnetic waves directed to the sample are from the sample itself and are not from the internal radome.

Radiation to the samples can be applied from any controlled or uncontrolled radiation source. For example radiation can originate from a distant source and propagate through free space or be applied from a controlled source such as a laser fiber optics or a transmission electromagnetic TEM cell. Controlled radiation may be directed to all or a portion of the sample being tested.

In addition to being a source of electromagnetic radiation a TEM cell set at room temperature may be configured to control the power amplitude and frequency of the incident electromagnetic waves. The TEM cell can also be rotated from zero to 180 degrees to provide different angles of arrival of the electromagnetic waves to the sample. According to one embodiment described herein the TEM cell has an opening that allows radome system to be inserted in it. The samples to be tested may be positioned at a sweet spot of the TEM cell i.e. at a location in the center of the TEM cell where the incoming electromagnetic energy that propagates along the horizontal direction of the cell is spatially homogeneous and is controlled in frequency.

A response of interest from a sample may be maximized at a certain temperature frequency and incident angle and power of radiation. For example the response of interest from a first sample may be maximized at 100 K and the response of interest from a second sample may be maximized at 50K. Thus system provides the ability for one to search for the temperature where the response of interest is maximized.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

