---

title: Providing cinematic animation and visualized payoff in a roulette game
abstract: Methods and computer programs for providing animation to online roulette game during game play include providing data for enabling an interface on a device used for playing the online roulette game. The interface renders a grid identifying bet entries and a roulette wheel on which a ball is provided to determine outcome of the roulette game. A number on the grid on which a bet has been placed, is identified. A number is randomly generated to determine outcome of the roulette game. The number corresponds with a specific one of the plurality of slots defined in the roulette wheel in which the ball is to land. Graphical animation is provided at the roulette wheel to provide visual indication of the outcome of the roulette game as the ball is caused to move around the roulette wheel toward the specific slot in the roulette wheel corresponding to the generated number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582958&OS=09582958&RS=09582958
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09582958
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140716
---
The present embodiments relate to methods for providing an online game and more particularly methods systems and computer programs for providing cinematic animation to an online game.

Online betting games have become very popular including casino style games such as video slots online poker video poker roulette blackjack etc. In order to attract players and to keep the players engaged for a long period of time game developers try to provide interesting challenges and unique variances to challenges within the game to make the game engaging entertaining interesting and challenging.

As more games are being developed game developers are finding ways for keeping the players engaged. In some instances more options to customize the game field to personalize the game objects to adjust the level of the game etc. have been provided in order to attract and keep the players engaged. Increasing the options available to a player in the game improves players game play experience which results in longer periods of engagement. Improving customer experience may result in increased betting and longer game play by the players resulting in greater revenue to the game developers.

Players engaged in game play especially in betting games such as online pokers roulette games etc. sometime forget what they bet on and how much they bet. With games such as roulette games where players can place multiple bets on different numbers it is hard for the players to keep track of the bet wager location the type and amount of bets wagers placed and what type of payoff can be expected if they win the bet.

Methods devices systems and computer programs are presented for providing some level of graphical animation during game play of an online game such as a roulette game. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a method an apparatus a system a device or a computer program on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

In one embodiment a method for providing animation for an online roulette game during game play is disclosed. The method includes providing data for enabling an interface on a device used for playing the online roulette game. The interface renders a grid identifying bet entries and a roulette wheel on which a ball is provided for spinning during the game play to arrive at an outcome on the roulette game. The roulette wheel includes a plurality of slots with each of the plurality of slots corresponding to a distinct number defined in the grid. A number on the grid on which a bet has been placed during the game play is identified. A number is randomly generated to define the outcome for the roulette game. The generated number corresponds to a specific one of the plurality of slots in the roulette wheel in which the ball is to land. Graphical animation is provided at the roulette wheel to provide visual indication of the outcome of the roulette game as the ball is caused to move around the roulette wheel toward the specific one of the plurality of slots in the roulette wheel.

In another embodiment a method for providing animation to an online roulette game during game play is disclosed. The game includes providing data for enabling an interface on a device used for playing the online roulette game. The interface renders a grid identifying bet entries and a roulette wheel on which an indicator is provided to determine an outcome on the roulette game. The roulette wheel includes a plurality of slots with each of the plurality of slots corresponding to a distinct number defined in the grid. A number is generated randomly to define the outcome for the roulette game. The generated number corresponds to a specific number in the grid and identifies a specific one of the plurality of slots in the roulette wheel in which the indicator is to stop. Graphical animation is provided at the roulette wheel to visually present the outcome of the roulette game. The graphical animation includes providing visual indication of payout computed for each of the plurality of slots in the roulette wheel as the indicator passes around or toward the respective one of the plurality of slots.

In yet another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing a computer program for providing animation for an online roulette game during game play is disclosed. The computer readable storage medium includes program instructions for providing data for enabling an interface on a device used for playing an online roulette game wherein the interface renders a grid identifying bet entries and a roulette wheel on which a ball is provided for spinning during the game play to arrive at an outcome on the roulette game program instructions for identifying a number on the grid on which a bet has been placed during the game play program instructions for randomly generating a number to define the outcome for the roulette game the generated number corresponds to a specific number in the roulette wheel in which the ball is to land and program instructions for providing graphical animation at the roulette wheel to provide visual indication of the outcome of the roulette game as the ball is caused to move around the roulette wheel toward the specific one of the plurality of slots in the roulette wheel.

Other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments describe methods devices systems and computer programs for providing graphical animation for an online roulette game during game play. It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

Various embodiments describe different types of animation that can be provided to an online roulette game during game play. Data for enabling an interface on a device i.e. a client device that is used for playing the online roulette game is provided. The user interface is used to render a grid of bet entries for a roulette game and a roulette wheel on which a ball is provided for spinning to determine outcome of the roulette game. The bet entries identify distribution of different numbers of the roulette game and various types of betting options available during game play. One or more bets placed by the user during game play are identified. A number is generated randomly to define the outcome of the roulette game. The generated number corresponds to a number on the roulette wheel where the ball is to land for that spin. The ball is caused to spin around the roulette game. When the ball approaches the generated number in the roulette wheel that corresponds to the generated number where the ball is to land graphical animations are presented at the roulette wheel. These graphical animations alert a player of the wins for the game and the payout computed for the winning number based on the amount and type of bet placed on the winning number. The graphical animations may be provided in any one or combination of audio visual video or other graphical forms to inform the players of the wins. Additionally the graphic animations may also alert the players of the payout for the generated number as the ball approaches the number in the roulette wheel. The payout information may also be provided at numbers other than the generated number to alert the players of the potential payout so as to influence the players to play and place the bets on the numbers to maximize their wins. The system keeps track of the various numbers on which the player has placed his wager bet and provides the graphic animation to inform the player of which number provided the win and how much payout was computed for each number including the winning number for each game. In some embodiments in addition to the payout information for each number the system may also provide the various numbers the player has played in the game and the near miss in the payout for the placed wagers. The payout information on the numbers that the player has placed frequently that is near misses may be presented in a matrix format for easy review. The near misses may be on bet entries that were placed by the player during previous game plays within a given session or for the game as a whole and the information presented in the matrix format will reflect the details of the near miss payouts of the session or the game as a whole. Such information would help the players to plan their subsequent game plays so as to optimize their returns on wagers bets. Conventional online roulette games do not provide such detailed information to the players to allow them to make informed decisions on which numbers to wager and how much to wager to have optimal winnings and game play experience.

A roulette game application executing on a server provides data for the user interface as well as the graphical animation during game play. The game application may include one or more modules that keep track of the bets wagers placed in the grid by the player generate a number randomly to define the outcome of the roulette game and provide graphical animation to provide visual indication of the outcome of the roulette game as the ball is caused to move around the roulette wheel toward a specific one of the slots defined in the roulette wheel that corresponds to the generated number. In some embodiments the animation may be provided when the generated number matches the number on which the player has placed his bet. The game application in one embodiment may include a wager detector module an input detector module a random number generator module and an animation provider module. When a user accesses the roulette game the user input at the client device may be used to send a request to the server and the server may return the data for enabling a user interface of the roulette game to be rendered on the display portion of the client device in response to the request. The user interface UI renders a grid identifying a plurality of numbers and various types of bets that can be placed by a player during a game play. The UI also renders a roulette wheel on which a ball is provided for spinning to determine outcome of the game. The UI may include an option which when selected would cause the ball to spin around the roulette wheel toward a number that is generated randomly during game play. For example the option may be a spin option in the form of a button. The aforementioned option and format are exemplary and should not be considered restrictive. Other options in varying formats may be provided to cause the ball to spin around the roulette wheel.

User input is detected at the user interface on the client device. The user input may be in the form of selection of one or more numbers in the grid of the roulette game of and placement of bets wagers at each of the identified numbers. A user may place varying amount of bets wagers on each of the identified numbers on the grid. In response to the user input at the grid the wager detector module is configured to detect the user input identify the selection of the numbers and the amount of wager placed at each number. Information from the wager detector module is shared with the animation provider module.

In response to the user input on the grid of the user interface the input detector module may randomly generate a number corresponding to one of the numbers in the grid of the roulette game. A random number generator module may be employed by the input detector module to randomly generate the number. The generated number identifies a specific one of the plurality of slots in the roulette wheel where the ball is to land during game play. The randomly generated number is provided as input to the animation provider module.

The animation provider analyzes the information provided by the wager detector module to determine the number s in the grid where the user has placed his wager and uses randomly generated number provided by the input detector module to provide graphical animation at the roulette wheel. In one embodiment the graphical animation provided at the roulette wheel may cause the ball to spin around the roulette wheel toward a specific one of the plurality of slots defined by the generated number. As the ball spins around the roulette wheel additional graphical animation may be provided as the ball lands in the specific slot defined by the generated number. The animation may be to inform the user of the winning number for the particular game play. If the generated number matches a number on which the player has placed his her bet wager the animation provider module is configured to provide additional graphical animation at the specific slot. In one embodiment the animation provider module may slow the motion of the ball at the roulette wheel as the ball approaches the specific slot corresponding to the generated number. In addition to slowing the ball the animation provider may highlight the number associated with the specific slot in the roulette wheel. When the generated number matches a number on which the bet has been placed the animation provider may provide animations for e.g. stars balloons confetti etc. around the number etc. In addition to the visual graphical animations the animation provider may provide audio for e.g. ringing of bells applause etc. video or other forms of animation. The additional animation provided by the animation provider may include presenting an expected payout for the specific slot at the roulette wheel. The expected payout may be computed based on the amount of wager and type of wager placed by the player at the number in the grid. In one embodiment the expected payout may be provided in the form of transparent stack of chips wherein the number of chips in the stack corresponds to the payout. illustrate the different screen renditions of the roulette wheel on which the graphical animations are provided during game play to depict the outcome of the game.

Referring simultaneously to in order to provide the slow motion animation the animation provider in one embodiment causes the ball to spin around the roulette wheel tracks the movement of the ball as the ball follows the path and makes its way around the roulette wheel determines the slot that the ball is passing determines the distance of the ball from the specific slot where the ball is to land and provides the necessary animation that causes dynamic reduction in the motion of the ball as the ball gets closer to the specific slot. In some embodiments the animation provider may rely on a threshold distance for e.g. 6 slots or 8 slots from the landing slot to provide the animation of reduced speed for the ball and animation of actual landing of the ball in the landing slot. In one embodiment as the ball lands in the slot associated with the generated number for e.g. number as shown in the animation provider renders other graphical animation at the roulette wheel. In one embodiment the graphical animation may be in the form of presenting an enlarged view of the generated number identified by reference numeral at the roulette wheel that corresponds with the number associated with the landing slot. Alternately or additionally other animations such as highlighting the number associated with the slot rendering the number over the roulette wheel providing flying stars halo confetti etc. may also be provided over on or for the number associated with the slot as illustrated in .

In one embodiment the payout information is not only presented for the landing slot but can be provided for other slots as the ball passes the respective slots on its way to the landing slot. For example when the landing slot is and the ball passes slots and before proceeding to land in the landing slot the animation provider may identify the passing slots compute the potential payouts for each of the slots and provide the payout information for the different slots as the ball moves through these slots. In one embodiment the animation provider may determine the amount of bet placed on a particular grid entry and use the bet amount from the grid entry to determine potential payouts for the different numbers in the roulette wheel corresponding to the bet amount as the ball moves around the roulette game. The animation provider then presents the potential payouts for each of the numbers at the roulette wheel as the ball passes these numbers toward the landing slot. illustrates one such embodiment. As illustrated exemplary payout information for slots and are presented in addition to the landing slot as the ball passes each of these slots toward the landing slot. The embodiment illustrated in shows the payout information for only two other slots in addition to the landing slot in order to provide a non crowded view. In reality it should be noted that the payout information of all the slots on which a bet has been placed and or through which the ball passes through to reach the landing slot may also be rendered.

In one embodiment the animation provider may perform additional analysis of the payouts before presenting the payout at the roulette wheel. In this embodiment for example the animation provider may determine the payout defined for the landing slot identify the slots that the ball is passing through before landing in the landing slot determine the payout for each of these slots and when the payout for particular slot s is larger than the payout of the landing slot present the payout for those particular slot s as the ball passes through the particular slots. In this embodiment the animation provider allows the player to visualize which slots have greater payout than the landing slot to assist the user in determining where to place the bet for optimal return. As the roulette games are fast paced it will be advantageous to provide users with as much information as possible so that the users will be able to make accurate bets quickly for maximum optimum payout.

In yet another embodiment the animation provider may identify the slots that were passed as the ball moved toward the landing slot and provide an informative message to inform the user of the near miss in the potential payouts. For example as illustrated in the graphical animation may include close up view of the slot in which the ball lands. In addition to the zooming in one or more of the nearby slots that had huge payouts may also be highlighted and rendered on the user interface of the device to inform the user of the near misses. Information related to the near miss may be presented when the slots of numbers associated with the near miss are proximate to the landing slot. Thus as shown in the landing slot corresponding to the generated number number is shown along with near miss slots and that are proximate to the landing slot highlighted to indicate the potential payouts. In one embodiment the landing slot is highlighted to indicate a net loss for a player that has bet on the number associated with the landing slot. The bottom of the screen of illustrates the total amount that a player had and the amount that the player bet and lost based on the near miss of the bet entry .

In some embodiments in addition to rendering payout s for slots related to the near misses other information related to the near misses may also be identified and presented to the user. The information may be provided in matrix format with the different numbers that the user had bet on the numbers that were near misses to the numbers the user bet on and the potential payouts for the near miss numbers. The information matrix in one embodiment may include only the most common numbers chosen by the user during prior game plays and the near misses for the identified numbers. User may use the information presented in the matrix to strategize his her future game play so as to receive optimum payouts.

In one embodiment the payout presented by the animation provider at the landing slot or any other slots may depend on the type of bet for e.g. straight bets split bets street bets etc. as illustrated in placed by the user i.e. player in the grid. As each type of bet provides a different payout the animation provider keeps track of the amount and type of bet placed by the user on different numbers in the grid and determines the payout for each slot accordingly. For example if the user placed a split bet on number that is associated with the landing slot then the animation provider presents the payout that corresponds to return associated with the split bet. In this case the payout would be 17 1 and the transparent stack of chips will reflect this payout when rendered in the roulette wheel. In another embodiment the payout presented by the animation provider at different numbers that appear before and are proximate to the number associated with the landing slot may correspond to the split bet and the maximum payout computed and rendered for the proximate numbers will reflect the bet entry selected by the user. The payout information may be useful to the player for game play strategy.

In one embodiment in addition to providing visual animation the animation provider may provide audio animation at the roulette wheel during game play. For example as the ball is caused to move around the roulette wheel toward the landing slot determined by the randomly generated number sound effects may be presented to inform the user of the outcome of the game play. The sound effects may increase in intensity from a minimal setting as the ball spins around the roulette wheel to a maximum setting as the ball lands in the landing slot or different types of sounds may be presented to the user as the ball moves around the roulette wheel before the ball lands in the landing slot. Additional sound effects may be presented as the ball passes through each of the slots on which a bet has been placed. In addition to audio and visual animations haptic animation or any other form of animation may also be presented at the different slots during game play to inform the player of the outcome of the game play.

With the above detailed description of the various embodiments methods for providing graphical animation at the roulette wheel of an online roulette game during game play will now be described with reference to . Referring to the method for providing graphic animation begins at operation wherein data for enabling a user interface is provided on a device such as a client device used for playing an online roulette game. The user interface may be provided at the client device in response to the user accessing the online roulette game from a game lobby wherein the game lobby may identify a plurality of games that are available to the user of the client device based on the user s subscription account. In response to the user selection in the game lobby a request may be forwarded to a server and the server in response to the request may forward the data for enabling the user interface at the client device. The data returned by the server is used to present a grid that identifies various bet entries and a roulette wheel on which a ball is provided for spinning during the game play to determine outcome of the roulette game. Each of the bet entries corresponds to one or more numbers in the grid. The roulette wheel identifies a plurality of slots with each slot corresponding to a number defined in the grid.

A number in the grid on which a bet has been placed by the user is identified as illustrated in operation . The roulette game application may track the user input in the grid and detect a number on which the user has placed his her bet. As illustrated in the user may place a bet on one number or a combination of numbers on the grid. The roulette game application may determine the type of bet that has been placed based on the bet entry selected by the user.

After the bet has been placed a number is generated randomly to define the outcome of the roulette game as illustrated in operation . The generated number identifies a specific one of the plurality of slots in the roulette wheel in which the ball is to land.

Graphical animation is provided at the roulette wheel to provide visual indication of the outcome of the roulette game. The graphical animation may be provided to cause the ball to move spin around the roulette wheel toward a specific one of the plurality of slots defined by the generated number as illustrated in operation . In one embodiment in addition to causing the ball to spin around the roulette wheel the graphical animation may cause the roulette wheel to spin in a direction opposite to the direction of the spinning ball. The graphical animation may also include providing an animation of the slowing of the ball as the ball approaches the specific slot associated with the generated number. Additional animation such as potential payouts audio feedback etc. may be provided at the different slots in the roulette wheel during game play as the ball moves around the roulette wheel. The game application provides an interesting animation to inform the user of the state of the user s bet s the game outcome and the potential payout on other bet entries near misses.

A number in the grid on which a bet has been placed is identified as illustrated in operation . User interaction at the grid may be tracked to determine the amount of bet and type of bet placed by a player based on the bet entry selected.

A number is generated randomly to define the outcome for the roulette game as illustrated in operation . The number may be generated in the background using a random number generator. The generated number corresponds to a number in the roulette wheel and identifies a specific one of the plurality of slots at which the indicator is to stop during game play.

In response to the generated number graphical animation is provided at the roulette wheel to visually present the outcome of the roulette game. The graphical animation includes causing the roulette wheel to spin around toward the specific one of the plurality of slots defined by the generated number where the indicator is to stop and visual indication of potential payout computed for each of the plurality of slots in the roulette wheel as the roulette wheel passes the respective slots toward the specific slot where the indicator is to stop as illustrated in operation . Additional graphical animations may be provided at each of the slots and at the landing slot after the indicator has stopped and such animations may be provide in audio format to inform the players of the roulette game of the outcome of the roulette game.

The various embodiments described herein provide 3D graphical animation identifying outcome of the roulette game. The graphical animation includes providing payout for one or more slots in the roulette wheel giving a quick view of the possible outcomes so that the user may be able to use the possible outcomes to place accurate bets quickly during subsequent gameplay. In the embodiments where the graphical animation is presented in the form of information matrix the information matrix provides a quick view of numbers that a user has recently bet on most common numbers the user has bet on numbers that have provided greatest payouts numbers that have provided more frequent payouts etc. to allow the user to make informed decisions during subsequent game play of the roulette game.

Embodiments are presented herein with reference to an online roulette game but the same or similar principles can be extended to other kinds of online casino games including various types of betting games such as skill games trivia games shooting games fighting games etc. . The principles presented herein as can be seen may be applied to any betting game or game of chance where the outcome of the game may be rendered to inform the users where or in what the users have placed their wagers bets and the potential payouts. It should be noted that the principles of the present embodiments may also be extended to real world casino games. A user viewing an augmented reality AR version of the real world casino games may also be presented with similar animation at a display device used for viewing the AR version of the game. In fact the principles of the present embodiments may also be extended to any type of application that requires user notification of the outcome.

The embodiments presented may be applied to real life money gambling so long as their implementation all or in part follow the pertinent rules and regulations for real money gambling. Further in one embodiment the random number generator follows the prescribed rules and regulations. In addition for real money gambling certain features may be adjusted or modified to follow the prescribed rules and regulations.

It is noted that the embodiments presented herein may be implemented in any computing platform having a display. For example the game may be played on a personal computer a tablet a smart phone a mobile device a slots machine etc. In addition the inputs for playing the game may be entered via keyboard buttons mouse touch screen interface gestures voice etc. In addition the embodiments presented herein may also be utilized for real life games.

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for keeping game data and random number generator . In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also include one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and the number of game servers will be lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. An example of a social network is Facebook but it is possible to have other embodiments implemented in other social networks. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data may include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation community server web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HyperText Markup Language HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a notebook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable its player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in Javascript Java Microsoft Silverlight combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous Javascript and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data that can be manipulated by processor . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes random access memory RAM .

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a Hard Disk Drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a Secure Digital card a Secure Digital drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

One or more embodiments can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more program instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

