---

title: Stylus based profile management
abstract: A stylus can be used with a computing device and send an identifier to the computing device. The computing device can send the identifier of the stylus to a server and the server can provide the user's profile information to the computing device. The user can interact with the computing device using the stylus and any changes made to the profile can be sent back to and stored by the server. When the user uses the stylus with a second computing device the updated profile information can be sent to the second computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09086746&OS=09086746&RS=09086746
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09086746
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140122
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 161 314 filed Jan. 22 2014 entitled TOUCHSCREEN INPUT DEVICE WITH IDENTIFIER and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 161 353 filed Jan. 22 2014 entitled TOUCHSCREEN INPUT DEVICE BASED CONTENT SHARING the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Touchscreen displays or touchscreens are visual displays that allow user interaction with the displayed image by touching the screen. Touchscreens can sense one or more touches at any given time and interpret the touches as a user input. Touches of a touchscreen can include any number of gestures such as a point touch a swipe a pinch and the like. The different gestures can be interpreted as different user inputs such as a point touch to make a selection a swipe to scroll a pinch to zoom and the like. Touchscreens can provide users with the convenience of not needing large input devices such as a mouse a keyboard and the like to provide inputs to a user device.

Touchscreens are increasingly common in many computing devices such as tablet computers cell phones gaming machines laptop computers GPS devices car entertainment systems and the like. Many of these devices can be communicatively connected to communication networks such as WiFi networks cellular data networks and the like. Such devices can allow for convenient user input via a touchscreen while providing access to many computing resources accessible via a communication network.

There are many types of touchscreens. Capacitive touchscreens include an insulating layer with a conductive coating. Touching the conducting coating with an electrical conductor distorts the conductive coating s electrostatic field which can be measured as a change in capacitance. The electrical conductor used to touch the capacitive touchscreen can include a human finger a capacitive tip of a stylus or any other electrical conductor. Many hand gloves are made of insulating material and prevent a gloved finger from being able to interact with touchscreen devices. However some gloves have been developed that can allow a gloved finger to interact with a touchscreen devices such as by weaving conductive material into the glove.

Projected capacitance touchscreens have a matrix of conductive material layered on insulating layers. Voltage is applied to the matrix to create a uniform electrostatic field. When a conductive object comes in contact with the projected capacitance touchscreen the uniform electrostatic field is disrupted and a change in the capacitance at points along the matrix can be measured. The electrical conductor used to touch the projected capacitance touchscreen can include a human finger a capacitive tip of a stylus or any other electrical conductor.

Resistive touchscreens include two layers of electrically resistive material that are separated from each other by a space. When one layer is depressed the resistance between the two layers can decrease so that a voltage difference across each of the layers can be measured. Any object such as a human finger a gloved human finger a tip of a stylus or any other object can be used to depress one of the layers of a resistive touchscreen.

Many other touchscreens exist such as infrared grid touchscreens infrared acrylic projection touchscreens optical imaging touchscreens dispersive signal technology touchscreens and acoustic pulse recognition touchscreens. Regardless of the type of touchscreen used a user can interact with the touchscreen using a touchscreen input device. A touchscreen input device is a device that includes an end that can be used to interact with a touchscreen. The end can include a capacitive tip an electrical conductor on the tip and the like. One example of a touchscreen input device is a stylus.

A stylus can also include any number of other features. For example a stylus can have features that can aid a computing device in determining an orientation of the stylus with respect to the device. For example the stylus includes a first color region and a second color region . These color regions and are shown as striped but could also be dots or any other shape. The color regions and can be different colors so that a camera or other light sensing component on a computing device can determine which end of the stylus is closest to the computing device. The stylus could also include a third color region or any number of other color regions to aid in determining the orientation of the stylus with respect to the computing device. Having more than two color regions may help determine orientation in the case where one of the color regions is obscured such as being obscured by the user s hand. In another example different ends of the stylus can emit light or other electromagnetic radiation at different wavelengths. In this example a stylus may emit red light from one end and blue light from the other end and the computing device may be able to determine the color of light emitted from the end closest to the computing device. Similar examples are possible with non visible electromagnetic radiation such as infrared or ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation. In yet another example a stylus can include reflective portions that reflect light or other electromagnetic radiation emitted by a computing device

Other features of a stylus can include magnetic ends that can be detected by a computing device buttons that allow for additional user inputs microphones that can record sound speakers that can play sounds haptic elements that can respond to user interactions lasers that can emit light in a particular direction or any other similar feature. Some features of such a stylus may require power and the stylus can include a battery or other power source. In one example a battery in a stylus can be charged inductively from a computing device that is in proximity with the stylus so that the stylus recharges as it is used to provide inputs to a computing device.

In the embodiment shown in the lines on the touchscreen for the letters are thinner than the line on the touchscreen . This difference may be due to the use of different ends of the stylus with the touchscreen . The one of the first and second capacitive ends and that is used to touch touchscreen can be determined in a number of ways. In one example the computing device may be able to determine an orientation of the stylus . The computing device can include a camera of the computing device that can take an image of the stylus during operation and processing the image to determine which of the first and second capacitive ends and is used to touch touchscreen . In another example the stylus may include a characteristic such as a magnet near one of the first and second capacitive ends and that can be detected by the computing device to determine which of the first and second capacitive ends and is used to touch touchscreen . In another example the stylus can include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope an accelerometer and the like that can be used to determine orientation of the first and second capacitive ends and with respect to the computing device and the stylus can send an indication of the orientation to the computing device via a wireless communication link such as a Bluetooth communication link a near field communication NFC link a WiFi communication link and the like. In yet another example the first and second capacitive ends and may have different sizes such as in the case of the first and second capacitive ends and of stylus in . The touchscreen may be able to sense the different sizes of the first and second capacitive ends and to determine which of the first and second capacitive ends and is used to touch touchscreen . Any number of other ways could be used to determine which of the first and second capacitive ends and is used to touch touchscreen . The computing device can interpret the uses of the first and second capacitive ends and as different types of user inputs such as the thin lines of letters and the thick line .

While depict user inputs in the form of letters and a line many other user inputs are possible. A stylus can be used to select a group of items such as files songs and the like. A stylus can be used to make selections such as selecting a particular file or song selecting an option from a list of options and the like. In one example the first capacitive end of stylus can be used to copy text and or files and the second capacitive end of stylus can be used to paste the copies text and or files. In another example the first capacitive end of stylus can be used to input information such as text lines and the like and the second capacitive end of stylus can be used to navigate such as by scrolling zooming and the like.

The computing device includes a touchscreen and a wireless communication device . The first and second capacitive ends and of the touchscreen input device can be used to provide inputs to the touchscreen . Wireless communication device can be a Bluetooth transceiver a WiFi transceiver an NFC transceiver or receiver a radio frequency identification RFID transceiver or receiver or any other type of wireless communication device. The wireless communication device of the touchscreen input device can send a wireless signal to the wireless communication device . The wireless signal can carry an identifier of the touchscreen input device to the computing device . The touchscreen input device can be operable to send the wireless signal at particular times such as when the touchscreen input device is brought into proximity with the computing device when one of the first and second capacitive ends or of the touchscreen input device is brought into contact with the touchscreen of the computing device and the like.

After receiving the wireless signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device the computing device can send a signal via the network to the one or more servers . The network can include one or more of a wireless network such as a WiFi network or cellular data network and a wired network. The network can include in part the Internet a wide area network or a local area network. The signal can include the identifier of the touchscreen input device . The one or more servers may have configuration information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device . For example the user may have registered the identifier of the touchscreen input device with the user s account on the one or more servers . The user could also provide the one or more servers with configuration information to be provided to computing devices when the one or more servers receive an identifier of the touchscreen input device from the devices. The configuration information can include settings and or owned content as described above. The configuration information can also include an indication of one or more actions that can be performed by computing device . For example the user may have made particular content or files available for download and one action that can be performed by computing device is downloading the particular content or files. In another example the user may have copied particular text or other content that is stored on the one or more servers and can be pasted on the computing device .

The one or more servers can determine configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the computing device . The configuration information is applicable to the computing device if it can be implemented on or performed by the computing device . The one or more servers can send a signal via the network to the computing device indicating the configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the computing device . In this way any configuration information set by a user of the touchscreen input device on the one or more servers can be sent to the computing device when the touchscreen input device is used with the computing device . One possible benefit of such a system is that the user of the touchscreen input device may be able to have the computing device be configured with particular settings make content available and or be available to perform certain actions merely by using the touchscreen input device with the computing device . This could even be the case on the first time that the user interacts with the computing device .

Optionally after receiving the wireless signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and before the computing device changes any configurations or sends the signal the computing device can perform a verification of an identity of the user and or the touchscreen input device . Verifying the identity of the user could include the user inputting certain information such as a password a personal identification number a signature and the like. Verifying the touchscreen input device can include receiving a particular code from the touchscreen input device . The code can be based on a time based key that would be difficult or impossible for an imposer to reproduce without having the key. The code can be sent from the touchscreen input device to the computing device in the wireless signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device . Other forms of authentication could also be used.

The one or more servers may have configuration information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device . For example the user may have registered the identifier of the touchscreen input device with the user s account on the one or more servers . The user could also provide the one or more servers with configuration information to be provided to computing devices when the one or more servers receive an identifier of the touchscreen input device from the devices. The configuration information can include settings owned content and or one or more actions that can be performed as described above. The one or more servers can determine configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the first computing device . The one or more servers can send a signal via the network to the first computing device indicating the configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the first computing device .

The one or more servers may also determine whether the first computing device is owned by a user associated with the touchscreen input device . For example in addition to registering the identifier of the touchscreen input device with the user s account on the one or more servers the user may also have registered the first computing device with the user s account on the one or more servers as being a computing device owned by the user. If the one or more servers determine that the first computing device is owned by a user associated with the touchscreen input device the one or more servers may include in the signal to the first computing device an indication of additional actions that can be performed by the user. For example the additional actions can include an ability for the user to set configuration information on the one or more servers to make content or text on the first computing device available for use by the touchscreen input device on other computing devices and the like. The additional actions can include any number of other actions that could be performed by the user on a computing device owned by the user.

The user can use the touchscreen input device to interact with the first computing device . As part of the interaction with first computing device the user can indicate actions that could be performed on other computing devices using the touchscreen input device . For example the user can copy or cut text content files and or other information on first computing device and make that copied or cut information available for pasting other computing device. In this case the first computing device can send a signal to the one or more servers indicating the copied or cut information available for pasting other computing device. The signal can include the copied or cut information if the information is not already included on the one or more servers . However if the copied or cut information includes information that is already on the one or more servers e.g. the user copied an application that is available for download from the one or more servers then the signal can include merely an indication of that copied or cut information e.g. an identifier of the application . The signal can also include indications of multiple actions that could be performed on other computing device such as making a particular song available for download onto another computing device and copying a document that can be pasted onto another computing device.

After using the touchscreen input device to interface with the first computing device the touchscreen input device can be used to interface with the second computing device . When the touchscreen input device is in proximity with the second computing device it can send a wireless signal that includes an identifier of the touchscreen input device to the second computing device . If the second computing device includes any configuration information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device the second computing device can implement changes indicated by the configuration information. The second computing device can also send a signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device to the one or more servers via the network .

The one or more servers one or more servers can determine configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the second computing device . The one or more servers can also determine whether the second computing device is owned by the user of the touchscreen input device . The one or more servers can send a signal via the network to the second computing device indicating the configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the second computing device . Whether configuration information is applicable to the second computing device can be based at least in part on whether the one or more servers determines that the second computing device is owned by the user of the touchscreen input device . The one or more servers can send a signal via the network to the second computing device indicating the configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the second computing device .

As described above one example of the use of system is that a user can copy content on first computing device using the touchscreen input device and the first computing device can send a signal that includes an indication of the copied content and or the copied content itself. Later the user can interact with the second computing device using touchscreen input device . The second computing device can send the signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device to the one or more servers . The one or more servers can send configuration information in the signal back to the second computing device . The configuration information can include a possible action of pasting the copied content onto the second computing device . If the user opts to paste the copied content the user will have been able to copy content from the first computing device to the second computing device without the first and second computing devices and communicating directly with each other and without transferring the content on some form of portable storage medium between the first computing device to the second computing device . The first and second computing devices and also do not need to be in proximity with each other.

As an alternative to the process shown in when content is copied on one computing device it can automatically be pushed to another computing device. For example in the case of the first and second computing devices and a user may instruct the one or more servers to automatically send the second computing device any content copied on the first computing device using a particular touchscreen input device . Thus when the user copies content on the first computing device using touchscreen input device the first computing device can send a communication to the one or more servers indicating that the content was copied on the first computing device . An indication of the touchscreen input device may have been sent before the communication indicating that the content was copied on the first computing device or with the communication indicating that the content was copied on the first computing device . The one or more servers can automatically initiate a download of the content from the one or more servers to the second computing device . The automatic download of the content from the one or more servers to the second computing device may occur regardless of whether the touchscreen input device is later used to interact with the second computing device .

As depicted in the touchscreen input device can be used to select one of the music items shown in the music application . When one of the music items in the music application is selected an option bubble can appear indicating the options available for that selected music item. Among those options depicted in is an option to make the selected music item available for download on other computing devices. If the option to make the selected music item available for download on other computing devices is selection then a signal can be sent from the first computing device to the one or more servers via the network . The one or more servers can store an indication that the selected music item has been selected to be available for download on other computing devices. The indication can be associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device with an account associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device with an account of a user of the touchscreen input device or in any other way.

As depicted in when the touchscreen input device is in proximity with the second computing device it can send a wireless signal that includes an identifier of the touchscreen input device to the second computing device . The second computing device includes a music application that can be used to manage and play music items on the second computing device . The second computing device can also send a signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device to the one or more servers via the network . The one or more servers can send configuration information to the second computing device via a signal . The configuration information can indicate that the music item previously selected on the first computing device is available for download on the second computing device . The second computing device can display a bubble indicating that the music item is available for download and asking whether the music items should be downloaded. The signal can also include an identifier of a user of the touchscreen input device or an account of the touchscreen input device and that identifier can be displayed such as in the bubble depicted in . If the user selects the YES button the second computing device can download the music item.

From the perspective of a user of the touchscreen input device the series of actions depicted in may give the user the impression of being able to copy the song on the first computing device and paste the song on the second computing device . This experience is made possible because the first computing device and the second computing device can receive the identifier of the touchscreen input device and interact with the one or more servers using the identifier of the touchscreen input device . Beyond transferring songs in this manner many other actions are possible. In one example a file e.g. a word processing document could be copied on one computing device and downloaded to another computing device. In another example text e.g. text in a word processing document could be copied on one computing device and downloaded to another computing device. In another example two users may be playing a game each using their own computing device. One player can used a touchscreen input device to select an item on that player s computing device and then use the same touchscreen input device to interact with the other computing device and transfer the item to the other player. Many other such examples are possible.

As depicted in when the touchscreen input device is in proximity with the first computing device it can send a wireless signal that includes an identifier of the touchscreen input device to the first computing device . The first computing device can send a signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device to the one or more servers via the network . The identifier of the touchscreen input device can be associated with the first user account . The one or more servers can send configuration information to the first computing device via a signal . The configuration information can indicate that a user of the touchscreen input device can send music items in the music application on the first computing device to another user s account.

As depicted in the touchscreen input device can be used to select one of the music items shown in the music application . When one of the music items in the music application is selected an option bubble can appear indicating the options available for that selected music item. Among those options depicted in is an option to send the selected music item available to a friend. If the option to send the selected music item to a friend is selected then a signal can be sent from the first computing device to the one or more servers via the network . The one or more servers can associate Song C with the second user account . The user may select the particular friend or a name of the friend s account when selecting content to be made available to a friend.

As depicted in when a second touchscreen input device is in proximity with the second computing device it can send a wireless signal that includes an identifier of the second touchscreen input device to the second computing device . The second computing device can also send a signal with the identifier of the second touchscreen input device to the one or more servers via the network . The identifier of the second touchscreen input device can be associated with the second user account . The one or more servers can send configuration information to the second computing device via a signal . The configuration information can indicate that Song C is available for download on the second computing device . The second computing device can display a bubble indicating that the music item is available for download and asking whether the music items should be downloaded. The signal can also include an identifier of a user of the touchscreen input device or an account of the touchscreen input device . If the user selects the YES button the second computing device can download the music item.

From the perspective of a user of the touchscreen input device the series of actions depicted in may give User A and B the impression of being able to send Song C to and from each other using their touchscreen input devices. This experience is made possible because the one or more servers include user accounts for both users and associates those accounts with identifiers of the users touchscreen input devices. Beyond transferring songs in this manner many other actions are possible. In one example a file e.g. a word processing document could be transferred from one user s account to another. In another example text e.g. text in a word processing document could be transferred from one user s account to another. Many other such examples are possible.

Other options or actions beyond merely sharing content are possible using the system depicted in . In one embodiment a user can revoke access to content that has previously been shared. For example a user can use the touchscreen input device with computing device to request that User B no longer have rights to Song C that was previously shared by User A. The computing device can send the one or more servers an indication of the first input device and an indication that the sharing of Song C with user account has been revoked.

In another embodiment a user can pull content from another user s account using a touchscreen input device. For example a user can use touchscreen input device with computing device to request that user account have access to Song D . The access can be temporary access such as a loan of Song D a sample period to listen to Song D and the like. The access can also be indefinite access such as Song D being given from the user account to the user account . The computing device can send to the one or more servers an indication of the touchscreen input device and an indication of the content for which access is being requested. If user account which is associated with touchscreen input device is eligible to have access to the requested content the one or more servers can provide the user account with access to the content.

In yet another embodiment a user can transfer ownership of content to another account. For example a user can use the touchscreen input device with computing device to request that Song C be given to User B. The computing device can send the one or more servers an indication of the first input device and an indication that Song C is to be transferred from user account to user account . The one or more servers can give user account access to Song C and take away access from user account . In this way the rights that User A may have had to Song C are effectively given to User B.

The possible actions depicted in include options to download songs and an option to paste a selection from a particular application an option to download a particular file an option to use a particular profile on the computing device and an option to not use any of the displayed options . Examples and embodiments of downloading songs files selections from applications and the like are discussed above. Regarding the option to use a particular profile the user may have registered profile settings with the computing device or a remote server. The profile settings can include settings such as a particular order of applications on a home screen of the computing device particular bookmarks in a web browser operating on the computing device individual login credentials being used with particular applications on the computing device and the like. If this option to use a particular profile is selected the computing device can automatically configure settings on the computing device according to the user s profile. Such an option would allow a user to automatically have the computing device configured to the user s profile even if the user had not previously used the computing device merely by using the user s touchscreen input device with the computing device .

An ability to have a particular user profile associated with a touchscreen input device can be useful in a number of contexts. For example a household can include multiple touchscreen devices that are used by multiple members of the household. Different household members can have their own touchscreen input device and the computing devices in the household can have access to a user profile associated with each of the touchscreen input devices. User profiles associated with the touchscreen input devices can be stored locally on the computing devices or accessible from another location such as a central computing device in the household or a remote server. In this example any of the household members with a touchscreen input device may be able to load their own user profile onto any of the computing devices merely using their own touchscreen input device to interact with one of the computing devices. In another example an employer can have a number of computing devices for use by employees where the computing devices are not configured to any one employee. When an employee uses the employee s touchscreen input device to interact with one of the computing devices the computing device can use an identifier transmitted from the employee s touchscreen input device to the computing device to load a user profile associated with the employee s touchscreen input device.

Anther context where associating a user profile with a touchscreen input device is a situation where a particular user may use a number of different computing devices. For example on a school or college campus a student may have access to a number of computing devices. The campus can have a computer lab with computing devices accessible to students a library with computing devices accessible to students classrooms with computing devices accessible to students e.g. at each desk in classrooms and other locations with computing devices accessible to students. A student can have a touchscreen input device that wirelessly sends an identifier to the touchscreen input device to one of the computing devices when the touchscreen input device is in proximity with the computing device. When one of the computing devices receives the identifier of the student s touchscreen input device it can load the student s profile on that computing device.

Loading the student s profile can include the computing device downloading settings and configurations for that student and loading the settings and configurations onto the computing device. In such a case the settings and configurations can be in a configuration or other format that may be convenient for downloading. The student can use the student s profile on that computing device until the student s touchscreen input device is no longer in proximity with that computing device. At that point the user profile can be taken off of the computing device. When the student s profile is loaded on the computing device the student can interact with the device. Input information about inputs by the student can be sent back to the server and the server can update the user s profile based on the input information.

Loading the student s profile can also include rendering an instance of a virtualized computing environment on the computing device. In this case a server may host a virtualized computing environment for the student. The virtualized computing environment can run software such as an operating system one or more applications and the like. The virtualized computing environment can generate renderable content such as audio and video content that can be rendered by a remote computing device. The remote computing device can render the renderable content and receive inputs. Input information associated with the inputs can be sent back to the server for controlling the virtualized computing environment. The virtualized computing environment can continue to be hosted by the server regardless of whether or not a remote computing device is rendering the content. When the student approaches a computing device such as at a desk in a classroom the student s touchscreen input device can send an identifier to the computing device. The computing device can send the identifier of the student s touchscreen input device to a server. The server can send content associated with the student s virtualized computing environment to the computing device. The computing device can render the content receiving inputs from the student and send input information back to the server for controlling the virtualized computing environment. When the student walks away from the computing device i.e. when the student s touchscreen input device is no longer in proximity with the computing device the computing device can stop rendering the content but the virtualized computing environment cam continue to be hosted by the server. When the student approaches another computing device such as a computing device in the library the computing device in the library can receive an identifier of the student s touchscreen input device and send that to the server. The server can begin sending content to be rendered by the computing device in the library. In this way the student is able to continue using the same virtual computing environment at any computing device on the campus merely by using the student s touchscreen input device.

In another embodiment when two users want to use the same computing device at the same time the computing device can receive identifiers of both of the users touchscreen input devices. In such a case the computing device can load a hybrid profile that is a combination of some or all of the first user s profile and some or all of the second user s profile. Such a hybrid profile could allow the two users to access resources e.g. websites files etc that are accessible to either user and allow the two users to easily share content with each other. A hybrid profile could also allow for the two users to work collaboratively on the same computing device. One example of this collaborative effect in the school environment is where two students work on a group project and can load a hybrid profile on a single computing device to work together and access everything that either student has access to.

At block the user can use the touchscreen input device with a first computing device that is one of the owned computing devices. When the touchscreen input device is in proximity of the first computing device the touchscreen input device can send a wireless signal to the first computing device that includes an identifier of the touchscreen input device. The first computing device can send the identifier of the touchscreen input device to the server. The server can provide the first computing device with permissions available to the touchscreen input device using the first computing device. In this particular case since the first computing device has been registered as a device owned by the user and the touchscreen input device is associated with the user account the server can indicate that certain actions can be performed on the first computing device such as using the user s profile on the first computing device copying content on the first computing device that can be downloaded onto other computing devices and so forth.

At block the user can select an action on the first computing device that can be performed on another computing device. The user can copy content such as a music item a file an application text or other content on the first computing device so that the content can be pasted to or downloaded to another computing device using the touchscreen input device. If the content is already accessible to the server e.g. a music item or an application that was originally downloaded to the first computing device the first computing device can send the server an indication of the content that has been copied. If the content is not accessible to the server e.g. a file created locally on the first computing device or text entered into the first computing device the first computing device can send the content to the server.

At block the user can use the touchscreen input device with a second computing device. When the touchscreen input device is in proximity of the second computing device the touchscreen input device can send a wireless signal to the second computing device that includes an identifier of the touchscreen input device. The second computing device can send the identifier of the touchscreen input device to the server. At block a determination can be made whether the second computing device has been registered as an owned computing device associated with the touchscreen input device. If at block it is determined that the second computing device has been registered as an owned computing device then at block the user is able to perform any of the actions previously defined on the first computing device e.g. pasting the content that was copied on the first computing device and the user is able to select additional actions on the second computing device that can be performed on another computing device e.g. copying additional content on the second computing device that can be pasted or downloaded to another computing device . However if at block it is determined that the second computing device has not been registered as an owned computing device then at block the user is able to perform any of actions previously defined on the first computing device e.g. pasting the content that was copied on the first computing device . Because the second computing device has not been registered as an owned computing device the server may not permit the user to select additional actions on the second computing device that can be performed on another computing device.

At block the computing device can send the identifier of the touchscreen input device to a server. The server may be able to identify that the touchscreen input device has been registered with the server identify whether the computing device has been registered as a computing device that is owned by a user of the touchscreen input device identify whether the touchscreen input device has been able to define possible actions that can be used on the computing device and so forth. At block the computing device can receive a response from the server. The response can include an indication of possible actions that had been defined on another computing device using the touchscreen input device. The response can also include permissions related to actions that can be defined by the user of the touchscreen input device on the computing device. The response can also indicate that no possible actions have been defined by the user of the touchscreen input device.

At block the computing device can determine whether the response from the server included one or more actions associated with the touchscreen input device that can be performed on the computing device. The one or more actions associated with the touchscreen input device can include downloading content e.g. a music item a file an application text or other content to the computing device implementing a user profile on the computing device or any other possible action. If at block the computing device determines that the response from the server does not include one or more actions associated with the touchscreen input device then at block the computing device can allow the user to continue using the computing device with the touchscreen input device without presenting the user with any additional actions. However if at block the computing device determines that the response from the server includes one or more actions associated with the touchscreen input device then at block the computing device can present the one or more options to the user. If any of those actions are selected by the user the computing device can perform the selected action.

At block the server can determine whether the computing device is one that has been registered as owned by a user of the touchscreen input device. If at block the server determines that the computing device has been registered as owned by a user of the touchscreen input device then at block the server can send settings to the computing device that can be implemented by the user of the computing device. For example the server can send profile settings or configuration settings to the computing device that the computing device can implement. The computing device can prompt the user whether such settings should be implemented before implementing the settings. After block the method can proceed to block . However if at block the server determines that the computing device has not been registered as owned by a user of the touchscreen input device then the method can proceed to block .

At block the server can determine whether the touchscreen input device has previously been used to define possible actions that can be performed on the computing device. The one or more actions associated with the touchscreen input device can include downloading content e.g. a music item a file an application text or other content to the computing device implementing a user profile on the computing device or any other possible action. If at block the server determines that the touchscreen input device has not previously been used to define possible actions that can be performed on the computing device then at block the server can send the computing device an indication that no possible actions are available. In this case the computing device can allow the user to continue interacting with the computing device using the touchscreen input device even though no actions specific to the touchscreen input device are available. However if at block the server determines that the touchscreen input device has previously been used to define possible actions that can be performed on the computing device then at block the server can provide the computing device with an indication of those actions associated with the touchscreen input device that can be performed on the computing device.

At block the server can receive an indication from the computing device of one of the possible actions that has been selected. For example the user may have selected an option to download content e.g. a music item an application a file text etc. that was copied on another computing device. At block the server can perform the selected action. For example the server can transmit the selected content to the computing device.

Computing device can also include one or more hard buttons integrated into housing . In one embodiment the one or more hard buttons can include a single button such as a home button or a power button. In another embodiment the one or more hard buttons can include a small set of buttons such as a power button a home button and a back button. In yet another embodiment the one or more hard buttons can include a large set of buttons such as a full QWERTY keyboard a keypad and the like. The one or more hard buttons can be part of the user interaction system of the computing device .

Computing device can also include a speaker configured to emit sounds and a microphone configured to receive sounds. In the embodiment where computing device is a cell phone speaker and microphone can be used to carry on a telephone call. In one embodiment speaker can be configured to play sounds associated with graphics displayed on display such as during play of audiovisual material on computing device . In another embodiment microphone can receive audio sounds which the computing device can interpret as user inputs. In addition while not depicted in computing device can also include an audio port which can be connected to an external microphone and or an external speaker or speakers. Computing device can send and receive audio signals via the audio port and interpret the received audio signals via the audio port just as it would interpret audio signals generated from sounds received by the microphone .

Computing device can also include one or more optical devices . In one embodiment an optical device can include an optical sensor such as an infrared sensor a visible light sensor and or any device that can sense light and or electromagnetic energy. The detection of light and or electromagnetic energy can be used by the computing device to control components of the computing device such as a level of light emitted by a backlight of display illumination of one or more hard buttons and any other aspect of computing device . In another embodiment an optical device can include an image capturing device such as a digital camera. An image capturing device can include any device configured to capture an image such as a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS active pixel sensor APS and a charged coupled device CCD . Images captured by one or more optical devices can be stored by the computing device as individual images or as a series of images in a video. Individual images and or video images can be processed by computing device and interpreted as user inputs. While depicts one of the optical devices pointing in the same direction as the display it is possible for computing device to have any number of optical devices and it is possible for one or more optical devices to be pointed in other directions such as a rear facing camera pointing in the opposite direction of display .

Computing device can include a power source . Power source can provide power to any or all of the other components in computing device . As depicted in power source can be connected to and provide power to each of processor memory display network interface and user interface . Power source can be any type of power source such as one or more disposable batteries a rechargeable battery and the like. In the embodiment where computing device is a portable device such as a laptop computer a tablet computer a cell phone a hand held computer and the like the power source may need to provide power for a period of time between recharging of the power source . When power source is not connected to an external power source computing device is drawing on the power stored in power source . The capacity of power source can vary with the type and size of power source . The rate at which power source discharges depends on a number of factors such as which components of computing device are active how much power each of the active components are drawing from power source and the like.

Each type or configuration of computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity. Customers may choose to allocate a number of small processing resources as web servers and or one large processing resource as a database server for example.

Data center may include servers which may be referred herein singularly as server or in the plural as servers that provide computing resources. These resources may be available as bare metal resources or as virtual machine instances and which may be referred herein singularly as virtual machine instance or in the plural as virtual machine instances . The availability of virtualization technologies for computing hardware has provided benefits for providing large scale computing resources for customers and allowing computing resources to be efficiently and securely shared between multiple customers. For example virtualization technologies may allow a physical computing device to be shared among multiple users by providing each user with one or more virtual machine instances hosted by the physical computing device. A virtual machine instance may be a software emulation of a particular physical computing system that acts as a distinct logical computing system. Such a virtual machine instance provides isolation among multiple operating systems sharing a given physical computing resource. Furthermore some virtualization technologies may provide virtual resources that span one or more physical resources such as a single virtual machine instance with multiple virtual processors that spans multiple distinct physical computing systems.

Referring to communications network may for example be a publicly accessible network of linked networks and possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet. In other embodiments communications network may be a private network such as a corporate or university network that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users. In still other embodiments communications network may include one or more private networks with access to and or from the Internet.

Communications network may provide access to computers . User computers may be computers utilized by users or other customers of data center . For instance user computer or may be a server a desktop or laptop personal computer a tablet computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA an e book reader a game console a set top box or any other computing device capable of accessing data center . User computer or may connect directly to the Internet e.g. via a cable modem or a Digital Subscriber Line DSL . Although only two user computers and are depicted it should be appreciated that there may be multiple user computers.

User computers may also be utilized to configure aspects of the computing resources provided by data center . In this regard data center might provide a gateway or web interface through which aspects of its operation may be configured through the use of a web browser application program executing on user computer . Alternately a stand alone application program executing on user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by data center for performing the configuration operations. Other mechanisms for configuring the operation of various web services available at data center might also be utilized.

Servers shown in may be standard servers configured appropriately for providing the computing resources described above and may provide computing resources for executing one or more web services and or applications. In one embodiment the computing resources may be virtual machine instances . In the example of virtual machine instances each of the servers may be configured to execute an instance manager or which may be referred herein singularly as instance manager or in the plural as instance managers capable of executing the virtual machine instances . The instance managers may be a virtual machine monitor VMM or another type of program configured to enable the execution of virtual machine instances on server for example. As discussed above each of the virtual machine instances may be configured to execute all or a portion of an application.

It should be appreciated that although the embodiments disclosed above discuss the context of virtual machine instances other types of implementations can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For example the embodiments disclosed herein might also be utilized with computing systems that do not utilize virtual machine instances.

In the example data center shown in a router may be utilized to interconnect the servers and . Router may also be connected to gateway which is connected to communications network . Router may be connected to one or more load balancers and alone or in combination may manage communications within networks in data center for example by forwarding packets or other data communications as appropriate based on characteristics of such communications e.g. header information including source and or destination addresses protocol identifiers size processing requirements etc. and or the characteristics of the private network e.g. routes based on network topology etc. . It will be appreciated that for the sake of simplicity various aspects of the computing systems and other devices of this example are illustrated without showing certain conventional details. Additional computing systems and other devices may be interconnected in other embodiments and may be interconnected in different ways.

It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. These network topologies and devices should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

It should also be appreciated that data center described in is merely illustrative and that other implementations might be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality disclosed herein might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art. It should also be appreciated that a server gateway or other computing device may comprise any combination of hardware or software that can interact and perform the described types of functionality including without limitation desktop or other computers database servers network storage devices and other network devices PDAs tablets cellphones wireless phones pagers electronic organizers Internet appliances television based systems e.g. using set top boxes and or personal digital video recorders and various other consumer products that include appropriate communication capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated modules may in some embodiments be combined in fewer modules or distributed in additional modules. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated modules may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

In at least some embodiments a server that implements a portion or all of one or more of the technologies described herein may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. depicts a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. In the illustrated embodiment computing device includes one or more processors and or which may be referred herein singularly as a processor or in the plural as the processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computing device further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computing device may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing one or more desired functions such as those methods techniques and data described above are shown stored within system memory as code and data .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripherals in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computing device and other device or devices attached to a network or networks such as other computer systems or devices for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as types of Ethernet networks for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs storage area networks or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for implementing embodiments of the corresponding methods and apparatus. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include non transitory storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computing device via I O interface . A non transitory computer accessible storage medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. that may be included in some embodiments of computing device as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as those that may be implemented via network interface . Portions or all of multiple computing devices such as those illustrated in may be used to implement the described functionality in various embodiments for example software components running on a variety of different devices and servers may collaborate to provide the functionality. In some embodiments portions of the described functionality may be implemented using storage devices network devices or special purpose computer systems in addition to or instead of being implemented using general purpose computer systems. The term computing device as used herein refers to at least all these types of devices and is not limited to these types of devices.

A compute node which may be referred to also as a computing node may be implemented on a wide variety of computing environments such as commodity hardware computers virtual machines web services computing clusters and computing appliances. Any of these computing devices or environments may for convenience be described as compute nodes.

A network set up by an entity such as a company or a public sector organization to provide one or more web services such as various types of cloud based computing or storage accessible via the Internet and or other networks to a distributed set of clients may be termed a provider network. Such a provider network may include numerous data centers hosting various resource pools such as collections of physical and or virtualized computer servers storage devices networking equipment and the like needed to implement and distribute the infrastructure and web services offered by the provider network. The resources may in some embodiments be offered to clients in various units related to the web service such as an amount of storage for storage processing capability for processing as instances as sets of related services and the like. A virtual computing instance may for example comprise one or more servers with a specified computational capacity which may be specified by indicating the type and number of CPUs the main memory size and so on and a specified software stack e.g. a particular version of an operating system which may in turn run on top of a hypervisor .

A number of different types of computing devices may be used singly or in combination to implement the resources of the provider network in different embodiments including general purpose or special purpose computer servers storage devices network devices and the like. In some embodiments a client or user may be provided direct access to a resource instance e.g. by giving a user an administrator login and password. In other embodiments the provider network operator may allow clients to specify execution requirements for specified client applications and schedule execution of the applications on behalf of the client on execution platforms such as application server instances Java virtual machines JVMs general purpose or special purpose operating systems platforms that support various interpreted or compiled programming languages such as Ruby Perl Python C C and the like or high performance computing platforms suitable for the applications without for example requiring the client to access an instance or an execution platform directly. A given execution platform may utilize one or more resource instances in some implementations in other implementations multiple execution platforms may be mapped to a single resource instance.

In many environments operators of provider networks that implement different types of virtualized computing storage and or other network accessible functionality may allow customers to reserve or purchase access to resources in various resource acquisition modes. The computing resource provider may provide facilities for customers to select and launch the desired computing resources deploy application components to the computing resources and maintain an application executing in the environment. In addition the computing resource provider may provide further facilities for the customer to quickly and easily scale up or scale down the numbers and types of resources allocated to the application either manually or through automatic scaling as demand for or capacity requirements of the application change. The computing resources provided by the computing resource provider may be made available in discrete units which may be referred to as instances. An instance may represent a physical server hardware platform a virtual machine instance executing on a server or some combination of the two. Various types and configurations of instances may be made available including different sizes of resources executing different operating systems OS and or hypervisors and with various installed software applications runtimes and the like. Instances may further be available in specific availability zones representing a logical region a fault tolerant region a data center or other geographic location of the underlying computing hardware for example. Instances may be copied within an availability zone or across availability zones to improve the redundancy of the instance and instances may be migrated within a particular availability zone or across availability zones. As one example the latency for client communications with a particular server in an availability zone may be less than the latency for client communications with a different server. As such an instance may be migrated from the higher latency server to the lower latency server to improve the overall client experience.

In some embodiments the provider network may be organized into a plurality of geographical regions and each region may include one or more availability zones. An availability zone which may also be referred to as an availability container in turn may comprise one or more distinct locations or data centers configured in such a way that the resources in a given availability zone may be isolated or insulated from failures in other availability zones. That is a failure in one availability zone may not be expected to result in a failure in any other availability zone. Thus the availability profile of a resource instance is intended to be independent of the availability profile of a resource instance in a different availability zone. Clients may be able to protect their applications from failures at a single location by launching multiple application instances in respective availability zones. At the same time in some implementations inexpensive and low latency network connectivity may be provided between resource instances that reside within the same geographical region and network transmissions between resources of the same availability zone may be even faster .

Thus as set forth above a content provider may provide content to a destination over a network such as the Internet using for example streaming content delivery techniques. A content provider may for example provide a content delivery service that may reside on one or more servers. The service may be scalable to meet the demands of one or more customers and may increase or decrease in capability based on the number and type of incoming client requests. The content delivery service may in some cases process a content item in parallel across multiple nodes of the content delivery service. This may be done in one embodiment to reduce the latency for rendering the content item. Portions of the content delivery service may also be migrated to be placed in a position of reduced latency with a requesting client. In some cases the content provider may determine an edge of a system or network associated with the content provider that is physically and or logically closest to a requesting client. The content provider may then for example spin up migrate resources or otherwise employ components associated with the determined edge for interacting with requests from the client. Such an edge determination process may in some cases provide an efficient technique for identifying and employing components that are well suited to interact with a particular client and may in some embodiments reduce the latency for communications between a content provider and one or more clients.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers or computer processors. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory optical disc and or the like. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

It will also be appreciated that various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used and that these items or portions of thereof may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other ways such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission media including wireless based and wired cable based media and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

