---

title: Human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles
abstract: In some examples, an unmanned aerial vehicle is provided. The unmanned aerial vehicle may include a propulsion device, a sensor device, and a management system. In some examples, the management system may be configured to receive human gestures via the sensor device and, in response, instruct the propulsion device to affect an adjustment to the behavior of the unmanned aerial vehicle. Human gestures may include visible gestures, audible gestures, and other gestures capable of recognition by the unmanned vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09459620&OS=09459620&RS=09459620
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09459620
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140929
---
A delivery service may deliver items to its customers using one of a variety of different means. For example an item ordered by a customer from an electronic marketplace may be removed from a shelf in a warehouse by a human picker loaded into a semi truck transferred to a delivery van and delivered to the customer s doorstep by a delivery person. In some cases the item may also be transported using a plane a train a motorcycle a bicycle or any combination of the foregoing.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to among other things techniques relating to human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles. In particular this specification will discuss techniques in relation to interaction with unmanned aerial delivery vehicles. The techniques however may be applicable to interaction with other unmanned vehicles whether aerial or otherwise or intended for delivery or otherwise. In the context of this specification unmanned aerial vehicles may be configured to recognize human interaction for safety purposes e.g. to avoid a collision for navigation or direction purposes e.g. to instruct the vehicles to come closer or drop a package and for any other suitable purpose e.g. for training of the vehicle to interpret human interaction . Types of human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles contemplated may include any suitable combination of human gestures capable of recognition by unmanned aerial vehicles. As will be discussed in more detail below examples of such human gestures may include visual gestures audible gestures and other gestures capable of recognition by unmanned aerial vehicles. Unmanned aerial vehicles may be configured to recognize such human gestures using one or more sensors.

In one example an unmanned aerial vehicle may be configured at least to recognize human gestures and to deliver packages. The vehicle may access a delivery plan that includes a delivery location associated with a human recipient. As the vehicle makes its way to the delivery location it may come upon the human recipient and or other humans. The human recipient and or the other humans can communicate with the vehicle using human gestures to aid the vehicle along its path to the delivery location. An onboard management system of the vehicle can process the human gestures and instruct the vehicle to perform certain actions. To process a particular human gesture the vehicle receives the gesture using one of its sensors compares the received gesture with those in a database of human gestures determines an action to take based on the comparison and instructs the appropriate subsystem to take the action. For instance the other humans may gesture by waving their arms in a shooing manner as the vehicle approaches them. Based on these gestures the vehicle may determine that such gestures indicate that it should not proceed further in the direction of the other humans. Accordingly the vehicle may instruct its propulsion subsystem to adjust its trajectory and or speed or otherwise adjust or modify the vehicle s behavior. On the other hand the human recipient may wave his arms in an inviting manner as the vehicle approaches. This may be interpreted by the vehicle as an instruction to land and deliver the package. Thus the vehicle may instruct its delivery subsystem to execute delivery of the package. The identity of the human recipient may be verified in some manner prior to delivery of the package.

Turning now to the figures illustrates environment for implementing techniques relating to human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles as described herein according to at least one example. The environment may include human user and unmanned aerial vehicle UAV . As will be discussed in more detail the UAV may be configured for delivery of packages. The human user may have previously requested delivery of a package to user home using the UAV . Thus the human user may have reason to expect and or anticipate the arrival and or presence of the UAV . This may in some examples influence the gestures that the human user makes in response to seeing the UAV . In some examples the UAV may encounter a different human user e.g. human user who may not have requested delivery by the UAV or may be a bystander and may not therefore have reason to expect and or anticipate the arrival and or presence of the UAV . This may ultimately influence the gestures that the human user may perform in response to seeing the UAV . For example the human user may gesture by waving his or her arms in the direction of the UAV in an unwelcoming manner or by making verbal gestures as illustrated in voice bubble . Returning to the human user as the UAV approaches the human user and or the user home the human user may signal the UAV using one or more gestures. The one or more gestures may include visual gestures e.g. waving arms flashing of lights pointing audible gestures e.g. speech and other gestures capable of recognition by the UAV . The human user is shown illustrating a visual gesture e.g. waving arms and an audible gesture e.g. speaking illustrated by voice bubble . These gestures may be received by the UAV processed by its management system and used to adjust its behavior e.g. change its flight path in any direction deliver its payload communicate with the human user and other similar actions .

Turning next to in this figure is illustrated an example UAV for implementing techniques relating to human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles as described herein according to at least one example. The UAV is an example of the UAV discussed with reference to . The UAV may be designed in accordance with commercial aviation standards and may include multiple redundancies to ensure reliability. For purposes of this specification the UAV may include a plurality of systems or subsystems operating under the control of or at least partly under the control of a management system . The management system may include an onboard computer for autonomously or semi autonomously controlling and managing the UAV and in some examples for enabling remote control by a pilot. The onboard computer will be discussed in more detail with reference to . Portions of the management system including the onboard computer may be housed under top cover . As used herein the management system may include a power supply and assemblies e.g. rechargeable battery liquid fuel and other power supplies not shown one or more communications links and antennas e.g. modem radio network cellular satellite and other links for receiving and or transmitting information not shown one or more navigation devices and antennas e.g. global positioning system GPS inertial navigation system INS range finder Radio Detection And Ranging RADAR and other systems to aid in navigating the UAV and detecting objects not shown radio frequency identification RFID capability not shown and interfaces capable of speech interpretation and recognition not shown .

The UAV may also include a communication system housed within the top cover . The communication system may include one or more light sensors e.g. imaging device depth sensor visible light camera infrared camera RGB camera depth aware camera infrared laser projector ultraviolet sensitive cameras scanning sensor light filters and any combination of the foregoing one or more auditory sensors e.g. microphone noise filters and other sensors for capturing sound and one or more output devices e.g. microphone speaker laser projector light projector and other devices for outputting communication information . The management system may be configured to receive information and provide information via components of the communication system . For example information may be received e.g. human gestures via the light sensor and the auditory sensor and information may be provided e.g. verbal statements requests or questions using the speech interface flashing lights and other ways discussed herein for providing information via the output device . Thus in some examples the UAV may support two way communication with users. Two way communication may be beneficial for verifying a potential recipient s identity for posing questions to a potential recipient or to other human users and for providing instructions to a potential recipient or to other users e.g. relating to delivery of a package. In some examples the communication system may operate semi autonomously or autonomously.

As shown in the UAV may also include a retaining system . The retaining system may be configured to retain payload . In some examples the retaining system may retain the payload using friction vacuum suction opposing arms magnets and other retaining methods. As illustrated in the retaining system may include two opposing arms only one is illustrated configured to retain the payload . The management system may be configured to control at least a portion of the retaining system . In some examples the retaining system may be configured to release the payload in one of a variety of ways. For example the retaining system or other system of the UAV may be configured to release the payload with a winch and spool system by the retaining system releasing the payload and other methods of releasing the payload. In some examples the retaining system may operate semi autonomously or autonomously.

In the payload is illustrated as a delivery box. In some examples the delivery box may include one or more packages or items intended for delivery to a recipient using the techniques described herein. The payload whether as a delivery box or otherwise may be configured for delivery using a variety of different methods. For example the payload may include a parachute that opens and slows the payload s descent as it falls to its delivery location. In some examples the payload may include padding surrounding its package to reduce the impact of a drop from the UAV above the ground. The UAV may also deliver the payload by fully landing on the ground and releasing the retaining system .

Further the UAV may include propulsion system . In some examples the propulsion system may include rotary blades or otherwise be a propeller based system. In some examples the propulsion system may include or be associated with one or more fixed wings. As illustrated in the propulsion system may include a plurality of propulsion devices a few of which A F are shown in this view. Each propeller device may include one propeller a motor wiring a balance system a control mechanism and other features to enable flight. In some examples the propulsion system may operate at least partially under the control of the management system . In some examples the propulsion system may be configured to adjust itself without receiving instructions from the management system . Thus the propulsion system may operate semi autonomously or autonomously. The propulsion system may enable multi directional flight of the UAV e.g. by adjusting each propeller device individually . In this manner the UAV may be configured to respond to human interaction by adjusting the features of the propulsion system . The UAV may also include landing structure . The landing structure may be adequately rigid to support the UAV and the payload . The landing structure may include a plurality of elongated legs which may enable the UAV to land on and take off from a variety of different surfaces. The plurality of systems subsystems and structures of the UAV may be connected via frame . The frame may be constructed of a rigid material and be capable of receiving via different connections the variety of systems sub systems and structures. For example the landing structure may be disposed below the frame and in some examples may be formed from the same material and or same piece of material as the frame . The propulsion system may be disposed radially around a perimeter of the frame or otherwise distributed around the frame .

Turning next to in this figure is illustrated an example schematic architecture for implementing techniques relating to human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles as described herein according to at least one example. The architecture may include a management module . The management module may be included as part of an electronic marketplace not shown and interface with purchase and delivery services of the electronic marketplace. In this manner the management module may coordinate delivery of items via UAVs such as UAV to customers of the electronic marketplace. The UAV is an example of the UAV discussed previously. In some examples the management module may be a stand alone service operated on its own or in connection with an electronic marketplace. In either example the management module may be in communication with the UAV via one or more network s hereinafter the network . The network may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks radio networks and other private and or public networks. Thus the management module may be configured to provide back end control of the UAV prior to during and after completion of its delivery plan. As discussed previously in some examples the UAV may be configured to accomplish its delivery plan e.g. deliver its payload with little to no communication with the management module .

User devices N hereinafter the user device may also be in communication with the management module and the UAV via the network . The user device may be operable by one or more human users hereinafter the human user to access the management module or an electronic marketplace and the UAV via the network . In some examples such connectivity may enable the human user to interact with the UAV according to techniques described herein. The user device may be any suitable device capable of communicating with the network . For example the user device may be any suitable computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a thin client device a tablet PC a desktop computer a set top box or other computing device. In some examples the user device may be in communication with the management module via one or more web servers constituting an electronic marketplace not shown connected to the network and associated with the management module .

Turning now to the details of the UAV the UAV may include an onboard computer including at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions software firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction software or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The memory may include more than one memory and may be distributed throughout the onboard computer . The memory may store program instructions e.g. UAV management module that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of memory including the UAV management module the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory . The UAV management module may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM. Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the UAV management module .

In some examples the onboard computer may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices.

The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. As used herein modules may refer to programming modules executed by computing systems e.g. processors that are part of the onboard computer . The modules of the onboard computer may include one or more components. The onboard computer may also include input output I O device s and or ports such as for enabling connection with a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer or other I O device. The I O device s may enable communication with the other systems of the UAV e.g. other parts of the control system power system communication system navigation system propulsion system and the retaining system .

The onboard computer may also include data store . The data store may include one or more databases data structures or the like for storing and or retaining information associated with the UAV . In some examples the data store may include databases such as customer information database and gestures database . Within the customer information database may be stored any suitable customer information that may be used by the UAV in implementing and or affecting its delivery plan. For example the customer information database may include profile characteristics for the human user . The profile characteristics may include a shipping address and one or more delivery characteristics. For example a delivery characteristic may indicate that during delivery the human user prefers to meet the UAV at a specific time and guide it to the ground using particular gestures. Other examples of delivery characteristics may include gestures commonly used by the human user while interacting with the UAV historical information relating to the delivery of items by the UAV to the human user delivery vehicle preferences and other characteristics relating to delivery of packages to the human user . Based on the information from the customer information database the UAV may increase its predictability with respect to the human user thus improving overall customer experience.

Within the gestures database may be stored gestures capable of recognition by the UAV . Associated with each gesture or groups of gestures may be instructions or information that can be used by the UAV management module to determine instructions to take when a human gesture is received that matches one or more gestures from the gestures database . For example certain gestures e.g. waving of one s arms aggressively in front of one s face covering of one s head with one s arms moving of one s arms in a shooing fashion e.g. as one would shoo a flock of birds and other similar gestures may when processed result in the onboard computer instructing the UAV to adjust its behavior in some manner e.g. aborting its delivery plan adjusting one or more aspects of its delivery plan adjusting the trajectory of its flight path associated with its delivery plan performing one or more routines performing one or more similar operations in response to processing the gesture and other similar behavior adjustments . Alternatively certain gestures e.g. waving of one s arms in an parallel directing manner e.g. as one would direct street traffic or motion to a pilot in a cockpit of a plane waving of one s arms in an inviting manner pointing at particular location s and other similar gestures may when processed result in the onboard computer instructing the UAV to land deliver its payload or in some way interact with the human making the gestures.

Turning now to the details of the user device . The user device may be used by the human user for interacting with the management module and in some cases the UAV . The user device may therefore include a memory a processor a user interface a web service application and any other suitable feature to enable communication with the features of architecture . The web service application may be in the form of a web browser an application programming interface API virtual computing instance or other suitable application. In some examples when the management module is part of or shares an association with an electronic marketplace the user device may be used by the human user for procuring one or more items from the electronic marketplace. The human user may request delivery of the purchased item s using the UAV or the management module may coordinate such delivery on its own. In some examples the human user may use the user device to direct the UAV during delivery and or to authenticate its identity prior to the UAV delivering its payload. For example the human user may make a first gesture to direct the UAV to move to the human user s direction make a second gesture or otherwise interact with the UAV to authenticate the identity of the human user and make a third gesture to direct the UAV to deliver its payload.

Turning now to the details of the control service . The management module may include one or more service provider computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm and may host web service applications. These servers may be configured to host a website or combination of websites viewable via the user device . The management module may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions software firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction software or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The memory may include more than one memory and may be distributed throughout the management module . The memory may store program instructions e.g. server management module that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of memory including the server management module the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory . The management module may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM. Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the server management module . The server management module in some examples may function similarly to the UAV management module . For example when the UAV is in network communication with the management module the UAV may receive at least some instructions from the management module as the server management module is executed by the processors . In some examples the UAV executes the UAV management module to operate independent of the management module .

In some examples the management module may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices.

The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. As used herein modules may refer to programming modules executed by computing systems e.g. processors that are part of the management module . The modules of the management module may include one or more components. The management module may also include input output I O device s and or ports such as for enabling connection with a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer or other I O device.

In some examples the management module may include a user interface . The user interface may be utilized by an operator or other authorized user to access portions of the management module . In some examples the user interface may include a graphical user interface web based applications programmatic interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs or other user interface configurations. The management module may also include data store . The data store may include one or more databases data structures or the like for storing and or retaining information associated with the management module . The data store may include databases such as customer information database and gestures database . The customer information database and the gestures database may include similar information as the customer information database and the gestures database of the onboard computer . The management module may store a larger amount of information in the data store than the onboard computer is capable of storing in the data store . Thus in some examples at least a portion of the information from the databases in the data store is copied to the databases of the data store e.g. periodically occasionally in connection with an event or otherwise. In this manner the data store may have up to date information without having to maintain the databases. In some examples this information may be transferred as part of a delivery plan prior to the UAV beginning a delivery mission.

Turning next to the details of the UAV management module stored in the memory of the onboard computer in example schematic device is illustrated including UAV management module . The UAV management module is an example of the UAV management module and the server management module . The UAV management module will be described from the reference point of an example UAV but its function is not limited to controlling a UAV. The UAV management module may be configured to manage one or more sub modules components and or services directed to embodiments disclosed herein. In some examples the UAV management module may include a communication component a navigation component a gesture determination component and a delivery component . While these modules and components are illustrated in and will be described as performing discrete tasks it is understood that illustrates example configurations and other configurations performing other tasks and or similar tasks as those described herein may be implemented according to the techniques described herein. Other modules not shown may perform the same tasks as the UAV management module or other tasks and may be implemented in a similar fashion or according to other configurations. Generally the communication component may be configured to manage communications between UAVs and a control service between UAVs and user devices between multiple UAVs and or any other communications. The navigation component may be configured to implement at least portions of the delivery plan relating to navigation. For example the navigation component may calculate adjust receive or determine coarse positioning or navigation instructions and fine positioning or navigation instructions. This may include in some examples determining trajectory adjustments to a flight path of a UAV. The gesture determination component for example may be configured to receive gestures access stored gestures compare the received gestures with the accessed gestures and determine one or more actions to perform based on the comparison. The delivery component may be configured to implement at least portions of the delivery plan relating to item delivery. For example the delivery component may be configured to verify a human user s identity and once verified execute delivery of items.

Turning next to this figure illustrates an example diagram depicting techniques relating to human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles as described herein according to at least one example. Specifically the diagram illustrates the execution of an example delivery plan of UAV . The UAV is an example of the UAV . An example flight path of the UAV is illustrated using the dot dot dashed line. The direction of the UAV along the flight path is illustrated by the plurality of arrows. The encircled numbers 1 5 illustrate locations along the flight path and are for discussion purposes. The flight path may be an example of a flight path that the UAV may take in delivering a package to human user who resides at home . Turning now to location the UAV is shown resting on vehicle . In some examples the vehicle may be used as a home base for the UAV . In some examples the vehicle may receive a delivery plan while resting on the vehicle while in flight or at some other time. An example delivery plan may include coarse positioning fine positioning and delivery decision making. The coarse positioning may include GPS coordinates directions to GPS coordinates and or an address of the home . The GPS coordinates may correspond to an anticipated delivery location such as delivery location . However because the accuracy of GPS coordinates and GPS systems can be imprecise in some examples coarse positioning i.e. navigation at a coarse level of accuracy may be used until the UAV is within a specified range of the delivery location that may approximately correlate to a range of the GPS system s accuracy. For example circle may illustrate an example accuracy range for a GPS system based on the delivery location . In some examples once the UAV crosses within the circle it may switch to fine positioning i.e. navigation via other positioning systems having a finer level of accuracy than the coarse positioning .

Returning to the flight path the UAV may leave the vehicle and come upon human group at location . In some examples the UAV may as a safety mechanism or otherwise be configured to watch for human gestures as it proceeds along its flight path . If the UAV flies close by the human group the UAV may be able to receive one or more human gestures from a plurality of users that form the group. For example the UAV may pass nearby the human group as a result of a malfunction to one of the UAV s systems because of an unforeseen circumstance e.g. weather conditions or as part of a planned flight plan. In any case the plurality of users that form the human group are not likely expecting the UAV and may therefore make gestures in its direction to prevent the UAV from coming too close. These gestures may be received by the UAV and ultimately result in the UAV adjusting its behavior e.g. adjusting the trajectory of its flight path based on at least one gesture. The at least one gesture may be in some examples representative of some or all of the received gestures. In some examples the at least one gesture may be determined based on an average of the received gestures a greatest number of common gestures from the plurality of users a selection of the gesture based on some relative ranking and or weighting among gestures e.g. if any of the gestures indicates to stay away then the UAV may stay away even if every other gesture indicates for the UAV to come closer and deliver a selection of a default gesture to adjust behavior e.g. abort when gestures are received from a plurality of users e.g. to keep the UAV from encountering a group or other similar determination techniques. Thus in some examples the UAV may be configured to receive multiple gestures from one or more humans and take one or more actions in response.

After adjusting the flight path of the UAV at the location if necessary the UAV may continue along the flight path to location . At or around this point the flight path of the UAV intersects the circle . In some examples the occurrence of this intersection may trigger a change in the UAV from coarse positioning to fine positioning. Examples of fine positioning may include network based navigation e.g. using network signals use of visual markers e.g. scanning by the UAV for physical markers beacon search e.g. scanning by the UAV for one or more signals from one or more beacons or devices human gestures e.g. scanning by the UAV for one or more human based gestures hardware connection e.g. scanning by the UAV for one or more connections with a hardware device perhaps of the human user and other methods and techniques for fine positioning. In some examples when operating according to fine positioning the UAV may operate so as to be more aware of or receptive to human gestures. For example the UAV may turn on additional and or supplemental sensing devices to receive human gestures. Near the location is located neighboring house and neighbor in front of the neighboring house . In some examples as the neighboring house is within the circle the UAV may approach the neighboring house and indirectly the neighbor seeking human gestures beacons and the like as part of fine positioning. In this example the neighbor is not expecting delivery of a package by the UAV and does not therefore expect to see the UAV . Accordingly when the UAV flies nearby the neighbor he may make one or more gestures in the direction of the UAV . These gestures may include visual gestures audible gestures and other gestures capable of recognition by the UAV indicating that the UAV fly away. In some examples the UAV may process at least one gesture or all gestures in order to determine at least one action to take. In this example the action may result in an adjustment of the UAV s behavior e.g. an adjustment to the trajectory of the flight path in a direction away from the neighboring house . In addition to adjusting the flight path based on the interaction with the neighbor the UAV may continue with fine positioning because it has yet to identify and or arrive at the delivery location . Trajectory adjustments may include a change in direction of the UAV a change in height of the UAV and or a change in speed of the UAV.

The UAV may continue along the flight path until it approaches the delivery location at location . In some examples the human user may be able to interact with the UAV using one or more specific gestures or general gestures. For example these gestures may have been provided to the human user as part of delivery instructions. In some examples the UAV is capable of recognizing any appropriate gesture indicating a desire that the UAV approach the person making the gesture. In some examples the UAV is directed to the delivery location after switching to fine positioning and or connecting with a device of the human user . For example the human user may have a UAV directional device that includes identifying information and was provided to the human user in connection with delivery scheduling. The UAV may be configured to access the identifying information and after verifying the information may fly to the location of the UAV directional device. In some examples the human user may use a personal user device to direct the UAV in a similar manner as described above. For example the human user may use a mobile phone to indicate its location. In some examples once the UAV has identified the delivery location it may trigger a change from fine positioning to delivery decision making During delivery decision making the UAV may validate the identity of the human user and determine a method for delivery of the package to the human user . Once the UAV has validated the identity of the human user and determined a method for delivery it may deliver the package. Once completed the UAV may follow the flight path back to the vehicle location . If while flying from location to location the UAV were to encounter humans it would be capable of receiving human gestures and adjusting its behavior e.g. adjusting the trajectory of its flight plan or performing some other action related to fulfilling its delivery plan. Thus in some examples the UAV may receive human gestures and engage in human interaction at any and all points along the flight path . It may be desirable to ensure the safety of human bystanders during any such interactions while the UAV travels along its flight path.

In some examples the flight path and the interactions with the human users along the flight path may be retained in memory of the UAV . Based on these interactions the UAV or other computer device capable of communicating with the UAV may add to the gestures already included in the gesture repository or database improve the accuracy of the UAV in responding to human gestures and develop ways for the UAV to act in future situations with similar gestures. At least some of these acts may be implemented using one or more suitable machine learning techniques. For example using one or more classifiers or support vector machines a set of gestures may be developed e.g. the gestures stored in a gesture database . Initially the set of gestures may be based on one or more training learning data sets. The set of gestures may be developed and added to as the data set according to which the machine learning techniques are being implemented. In this manner patterns between certain gestures can be recognized and used to improve gesture recognition. In addition the UAV may be configured to receive human gestures in a learning context. In some examples when in the learning context a human operator may interact with the UAV in order to teach the UAV how to react given certain gestures circumstances and the like. In this manner the UAV or other device may be able to update a gesture repository or database.

Turning next to example acts and or procedures that may be performed using techniques described herein in accordance with at least one example. depicts process including example acts for techniques relating to human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles in accordance with at least one example. Some or all of the process or any other processes described herein or variations and or combinations thereof may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory. The UAV management module of the onboard computer may perform the process of . The process begins at by receiving delivery instruction s . In some examples receiving delivery instruction s may be performed by the communication component . The delivery instructions may be instructions created by the UAV management module the management module an electronic marketplace or other service overseeing the delivery of packages using the UAV . The instructions may include a delivery plan. In some examples a delivery plan may include coarse positioning instructions fine positioning instructions and delivery decision making instructions. At the process proceeds according to delivery instruction s . In some examples proceeding according to delivery instructions may be performed by the navigation component . Proceeding according to delivery instructions may include proceeding according to a portion of the delivery plan and enabling the UAV to proceed towards a delivery location. At the process receives human gesture s . Receiving human gesture s may be performed by one or more sensors of the UAV and processed by the gesture determination component . In some examples receiving human gestures may include receiving visual gestures audible gestures and other gestures capable of recognition by the UAV . Examples of gestures that may be received include voice gestures arm gestures multiple arm gestures hand gestures multiple hand gestures body gestures e.g. backing away from the UAV walking toward the UAV and other similar body gestures natural reaction gestures e.g. the gestures that a human would naturally make in responding to particular stimuli pre defined gestures flag gestures sign gestures static gestures and other gestures capable of signaling the UAV . At the process accesses gesture database s . In some examples accessing gesture databases may be performed by the gesture determination component . In some examples a gesture database is stored locally on the UAV and the gesture determination component accesses it locally. The gesture database also may be accessed remotely from the management module . Accessing gestures databases may include accessing gesture information describing gestures and searching for one or more gestures or one or more groups of gestures similar to gestures received at . At the process determines human gesture s based on gesture database s . In some examples the gesture determination component may determine human gestures. Determining human gestures may include comparing received gestures with those accessed at to identify at least one match. Thus determining human gestures may include determining with respect to a comparison of human gestures. In some examples determining human gestures may include determining one or more possible meanings of a received gesture and comparing the one or more possible meanings with those included in the gestures database. In some examples determining human gestures may include utilizing one or more gesture recognition algorithms e.g. D model based algorithms skeletal based algorithms appearance based models and similar algorithms capable of determining human gestures . At the process proceeds in accordance with determined human gesture s and delivery instruction s . In some examples proceeding in accordance with determined human gestures and delivery instructions may be performed by the delivery component and the navigation component . Proceeding in accordance with determined human gestures may include adjusting a behavior of the UAV e.g. affecting or implementing a trajectory adjustment to a flight path by instructing one or more systems of the UAV to make the adjustments. In some examples proceeding in accordance with delivery instructions may include changing from one portion of the delivery plan to another. It also may also include executing delivery of the packages. In some examples proceeding in accordance with determined human gestures and delivery instructions may include adjusting the behavior of the UAV such that UAV aborts its delivery plan. For example if at the process determined that the received human gestures indicate that the UAV should abort its delivery plan then the UAV may abort its delivery plan. In some examples it may be determined that the UAV should abort its delivery plan without receiving human gestures. For example the UAV may receive a message from a management module instructing it to abort its mission.

Turning next to example acts and or procedures that may be performed using techniques described herein in accordance with at least one example depicts process including example acts for techniques relating to human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles in accordance with at least one example. The server management module of the management module may perform the process of . The process begins at by providing delivery plan s . In some examples providing delivery plan s may be performed by the server management module . Providing delivery plans may include providing one or more portions of a delivery plan to the UAV . The delivery plan may include one or more portions e.g. coarse positioning portion fine positioning portion delivery instruction portion and similar portions relating to the delivery plan . In some examples certain portions may be specific for delivery of a particular package to a user. For example a delivery instruction portion may include identifying information specific to the user e.g. name address delivery preferences and other similar user information . In some examples certain portions of the delivery plan may include more generic information i.e. details about a delivery plan that are shared by more than one user . For example the delivery plan may include generic information describing details about a particular neighborhood where the UAV will be flying. This generic information may be reused and added to as the UAV obtains more experience with certain routes neighborhoods areas and the like. At the process receives human gesture s . In some examples receiving human gesture s may be performed by the gesture determination component of the UAV . Receiving human gestures may include scanning for gestures using one or more sensors of the UAV receiving information indicating the presence of a gesture and determining based on the received information details about the gesture. At the process accesses human gesture information or database. In some examples accessing human gesture information may be performed by the server management module . Accessing human gesture information may include accessing one or more data structures or databases in which gesture information is retained. At the process determines human gesture s . In some examples determining human gestures may be performed by the server management module . Determining human gestures may include comparing the received human gestures with the accessed human gesture information. At a decision is made whether determined gesture s indicate to implement a behavior adjustment. In some examples a determined gesture may indicate that the UAV adjust its behavior such that the UAV no longer proceeds according to its delivery plan e.g. to abort the delivery plan . In some examples a determined gesture may indicate that the UAV perform one or more routines or subroutines in order to determine a next step to take. For example a determined gesture may indicate that the UAV fly to a certain elevation and request additional instructions from a management module or wait for a period of time before flying along the same path. In some examples a determined gesture may indicate that the UAV continue along the flight path in the direction of the target location. If the determined gesture indicates that the UAV should not adjust its behavior i.e. no then the process returns to block to receive human gesture s . If the determined gesture indicates that the UAV should adjust its behavior i.e. yes then at the process instructs system s to implement or affect a behavior adjustment. In some examples instructing systems to implement or affect a behavior adjustment may include sending instructions to the UAV to instruct its systems to implement or affect the behavior adjustment. As discussed above implementing a behavior adjustment may encompass aborting the entire mission aborting a portion of the delivery plan adjusting the delivery plan adjusting the flight path of the UAV and other similar adjustments. At a decision is made whether gesture s indicate to deliver. If no then the process returns to block to receive human gesture s . If yes then the process proceeds to decision block . At a decision is made whether delivery is verified. In some examples verifying deliveries may be performed by the delivery component . Verifying deliveries may include verifying the identity of a recipient of a package. For example the process may verify using one or more methods for verification discussed herein. In some examples a remote operator may connect to the UAV and communicate with the recipient or the UAV may communicate with the recipient using its speech recognition and interpretation functionality. As mentioned previously the delivery may be verified by verifying the identity of the recipient using a user device a scanner a machine readable code specialized device and other similar methods of verification. If the answer is yes at then the process proceeds to . At the process instructs system s to implement or affect delivery. In some examples this may include providing instructions to the UAV to implement or affect delivery by landing and or releasing the package.

Turning next to example acts and or procedures that may be performed using techniques described herein in accordance with at least one example depicts process including example acts for techniques relating to human interaction with unmanned aerial vehicles in accordance with at least one example. The UAV management module of the onboard computer may perform the process of . The process begins at by accessing delivery plan s . In some examples accessing delivery plans may be performed by the communication component . Accessing delivery plans may include receiving a delivery plan including a plurality of portions. In some examples the portions that may be received include a coarse portion a fine portion and a delivery portion. At the process proceeds according to the coarse portion of the delivery plan. In some examples proceeding according to the coarse portion of the delivery plan may be performed by the navigation component . Proceeding according to the coarse portion may include navigation based on GPS systems. At the process receives human gesture s . In some examples receiving human gestures may be performed by the gesture determination component . At the process accesses human gesture repository or database. In some examples accessing human gesture repository may be performed by the gesture determination component . At the process determines human gestures. Determining human gestures may be performed by the gesture determination component . At a decision is made whether to adjust. In some examples this decision may be made by the gesture determination component . Determining whether to adjust may be based on the determination of human gestures performed at . If no then the process returns to to receive human gestures. If for example a determined human gesture indicates that the UAV should adjust its behavior i.e. yes e.g. adjusting delivery plan making a trajectory adjustment or other adjustments to its behavior then at the process instructs system s to implement or affect an adjustment. In some examples instructing system s to implement or affect the adjustment may be performed by the communication component . In some examples if the behavior adjustment is that the UAV should abort its mission then the UAV may in some examples return to its source location send a message to a management module e.g. requesting retrieval indicating that it is aborting requesting authorization to abort requesting further instructions and other similar messages issue an alarm send a message to recipient and other similar actions. At a decision is made whether to deliver. In some examples this decision may be made by the delivery component . In some examples a package may not be delivered until the delivery is verified. If yes then the process continues to at encircled 1. If no then at the process resumes according to the coarse portion of the delivery plan s . Thus if the process determines not to adjust and not to proceed with delivery and it has not changed to a different portion of the delivery plan then the process continues according to the coarse portion of the delivery plan. At a decision is made whether the coarse portion of the delivery plan is complete. If no then the process continues back to block and resumes according to the coarse portion of the delivery plan. If yes then the process continues to at encircled 2. 

Picking up at the encircled 1 on the process continues to . At the process proceeds according to the delivery portion of the delivery plan s . In some examples proceeding according to the delivery portion of the delivery plans may be performed by the delivery component . Proceeding according to the delivery portion of the delivery plans may include changing from the coarse portion to the delivery portion. At the process verifies delivery. In some examples verifying delivery may be performed by the delivery component . Verifying delivery may include verifying a recipient associated with the delivery verifying a location associated with the delivery and verifying other aspects of the delivery. At the process instructs system s to implement or affect delivery. In some examples instructing systems to implement or affect delivery may be performed by the delivery component . Instructing systems to implement or affect delivery may include instructing a system of the UAV to take one or more actions for example instructing the retaining system to release a package. Returning to the encircled 2 on the process continues to . At the process proceeds according to the fine portion of the delivery plan s . In some examples proceeding according to the fine portion of the delivery plans may be performed by the navigation component . Proceeding according to the fine portion may include receiving information indicating that a coarse portion of the delivery plan is completed or substantially completed determining based on the information to change to a fine portion and instructing systems of the UAV to proceed according to the fine portion. At the process receives human gesture s . In some examples receiving human gestures may be performed by the gesture determination component . At the process accesses human gesture repository or database. In some examples accessing human gesture repository may be performed by the gesture determination component . At the process determines human gestures. In some examples determining human gestures may be performed by the gesture determination component . At a decision is made whether to adjust. In some examples this decision may be made by the gesture determination component . Determining whether to adjust may be based on the determination of human gestures performed at . If no then process returns to to receive human gestures. If for example a determined human gesture indicates that the UAV should adjust its behavior i.e. yes e.g. by adjusting its delivery plan by making a trajectory adjustment or by making other adjustments to its behavior then at the process instructs system s to implement or affect the adjustment. In some examples instructing system s to implement or affect the adjustment may be performed by the communication component . In some examples if the behavior adjustment is that the UAV should abort its mission then the UAV may for example return to its source location send a message to a management module e.g. requesting retrieval indicating that it is aborting requesting authorization to abort requesting further instructions and other similar messages issue an alarm send a message to recipient and other similar actions. At a decision is made whether to deliver. In some examples this decision may be made by the delivery component . In some examples a package may not be delivered until the delivery is verified. If yes then at the process proceeds according to the delivery portion of the plan s . If no then process continues to . At the process resumes according to the fine portion of the delivery plan s . In some examples resuming according to the fine portion of the delivery plans may be performed by the navigation component . Resuming according to the fine portion of the delivery plan may include beginning at the same point in the delivery plan prior to receiving human gestures at . At a decision is made whether the fine portion of the delivery plan is complete. If yes then at the process proceeds according to the delivery portion of the plan s . If no then at a decision is made whether the delivery plan including the fine portion has timed out. If no then at the process resumes according to the fine portion of the delivery plan s . If yes then at the process instructs systems to implement or affect abort. In some examples implementing or affecting abort may include the UAV returning to its source location sending a message to a management module e.g. requesting retrieval indicating that it is aborting requesting authorization to abort requesting further instructions and other similar messages issuing an alarm sending a message to recipient and performing other similar actions. In some examples the fine portion or any other portion of the delivery plan may timeout if the UAV is unable to deliver its package. This may be a result of any number of factors such as an incorrect address inclement weather third party interference UAV malfunction inability to verify recipient and any other factor that could cause delay.

As can be appreciated from the foregoing discussion a UAV such as UAV may be configured to receive and process human gestures at any suitable point along its path whether or not its mission has been aborted. The UAV may also receive and process human gestures while executing any suitable portion of its delivery plan whether or not previous behavioral adjustments have been made. Thus human gestures may be received at other times and in different manners than the examples illustrated in . In some examples the UAV may be configured to scan via its sensors for gestures continuously periodically and or randomly. The frequency of such scanning may be increased and or decreased at certain points along the path and or under certain circumstances. For example scanning may be less frequent when the UAV is traversing a less densely inhabited area but more frequent when in a densely inhabited area. As an additional example scanning may be less frequent when the UAV is performing one portion of the delivery plan compared to another.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any suitable device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any suitable combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any suitable standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the electronic client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In some examples a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the electronic client device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the environment in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of suitable applications. User or client devices can include any suitable number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of suitable commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Open System Interconnection OSI File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any suitable combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any suitable medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or example like language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood within the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the described embodiments. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the embodiments disclosed herein to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

