---

title: Low duty cycle device protocol
abstract: The subject matter disclosed herein relates to a system and method for establishing communication between a low duty cycle device and other devices through a wireless communication network. In one particular implementation, the low duty cycle device may awaken from a hibernating state in synchronization with transmission of messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226236&OS=09226236&RS=09226236
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09226236
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
The present application for patent is a divisional and claims priority from Utility patent application Ser. No. 12 020 389 filed Jan. 25 2008 entitled Low duty cycle device protocol and is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein. This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 887 536 filed on Jan. 31 2007 and 60 886 904 filed on Jan. 26 2007 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and is a continuation in part and claims benefit of priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 766 068 filed on Jun. 20 2007 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent application No. 60 815 679 filed on Jun. 21 2006 and which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates to communication systems and networks including low duty cycle devices.

Remote monitoring of operations may include the use of low power and or battery operated wireless telecommunication devices that monitor operational status information and transmit operational status information to a remotely situated information processing device. Here for example such operational status may be transmitted via radio frequency signals as short messages. A telecommunication device employing a power consumption saving technique may not be able to communicate with a remotely situated information processing device if the telecommunication device is in a sleep mode in order to conserve battery power.

In one particular implementation a first device is adapted to awaken in periods from a hibernating state to enable communication with a wireless communication network. By synchronizing with such periods a second device may schedule transmission of information in the wireless communication network to the first device during such periods. It should be understood however that this is merely one example implementation and that claimed subject matter is not limited to this particular implementation.

Reference throughout this specification to one example one feature an example or one feature means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the feature and or example is included in at least one feature and or example of claimed subject matter. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one example an example in one feature or a feature in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same feature and or example. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in one or more examples and or features.

Methodologies described herein may be implemented by various means depending upon applications according to particular features and or examples. For example such methodologies may be implemented in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. In a hardware implementation for example a processing unit may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors electronic devices other devices units designed to perform the functions described herein and or combinations thereof.

Location determination and or estimation techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication networks such as a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and so on. The term network and system may be used interchangeably herein. A WWAN may comprise for example a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA network a Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA network and so on. A CDMA network may implement one or more radio access technologies RATs such as cdma2000 Wideband CDMA W CDMA to name just a few radio technologies. Here cdma2000 may include technologies implemented according to IS 95 IS 2000 and IS 856 standards for example. A TDMA network may implement Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS or some other RAT. GSM and W CDMA are described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Cdma2000 is described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . 3GPP and 3GPP2 documents are publicly available. A WLAN may comprise an IEEE 802.11x network and a WPAN may comprise a Bluetooth network an IEEE 802.15x for example. Such location determination techniques described herein may also be used for any combination of WWAN WLAN and or WPAN.

According to an example a device and or system may estimate its location based at least in part on signals received from SVs. In particular such a device and or system may obtain pseudorange measurements comprising approximations of distances between associated SVs and a navigation satellite receiver. In a particular example such a pseudorange may be determined at a receiver that is capable of processing signals from one or more SVs as part of a Satellite Positioning System SPS . To determine its location a satellite navigation receiver may obtain pseudorange measurements to three or more satellites as well as their positions at time of transmitting.

Techniques described herein may be used with any one of several SPS . Furthermore such techniques may be used with positioning determination systems that utilize pseudolites or a combination of satellites and pseudolites. Pseudolites may comprise ground based transmitters that broadcast a PN code or other ranging code e.g. similar to a GPS or CDMA cellular signal modulated on an L band or other frequency carrier signal which may be synchronized with time. Such a transmitter may be assigned a unique PN code so as to permit identification by a remote receiver. Pseudolites are useful in situations where GPS signals from an orbiting satellite might be unavailable such as in tunnels mines buildings urban canyons or other enclosed areas. Another implementation of pseudolites is known as radio beacons. The term satellite as used herein is intended to include pseudolites equivalents of pseudolites and possibly others. The term SPS signals as used herein is intended to include SPS like signals from pseudolites or equivalents of pseudolites.

In one particular implementation a device may comprise a navigation receiver may be adapted to receive signals from one or more transmitters which are indicative of a location of the navigation receiver. The device may further include a transceiver which is adapted to communicate with other devices such as for example a server through a wireless communication network. In one aspect the device may be adapted to intermittently awaken from a hibernated or hibernating state in synchronization with the location server to exchange information with the location server over the wireless communication network. However this is merely an example of a particular implementation and claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

While in a hibernating state a device may operate at a reduced power and reduced functionality. In one particular example a device in a hibernating state may not be capable of receiving and or processing signals transmitted in a wireless communication network. In another implementation a device in a hibernating state may sufficiently power a timing feature to track duration of hibernation cycles and or the like and initiate an awakening of the device from a hibernating state. By intermittently awakening from a hibernated state in synchronization with a location server a device may receive information in a downlink communication channel from a server through a bi directional communication channel without constantly being in a full power state to receive signals from a wireless communication network.

In one implementation a terminal may be configured to communicate with a center and or application server . Here a center may comprise any one of several devices and or processes such as for example a communication server that is adapted to facilitate transmission of messages between devices in a first communication network and devices in a second communication network. In one aspect a terminal may transmit information to a center and or application server through an uplink portion of a wireless communication link with an associated mobile switching center and or base station subsystem MSC BSS . In one particular implementation such an uplink portion of a wireless communication link may comprise access channels used for transmission of registration requests call set up requests page responses order responses and or other information that may be required by system protocols. Information transmitted to a center and or application server in the uplink portion may include for example status information regarding one or more devices co located with a terminal sensor data location information battery status and or the like. In this context location information refers to information that may be descriptive of a location such as an estimate of a location of a terminal and or information that may be used in computing such an estimate.

Also a center and or application server may transmit information to a terminal through a downlink portion of the wireless communication link with the associated MSC BSS . In one particular implementation such a downlink portion of a wireless communication link may comprise pilot channels providing beacon functionality for initial system acquisition sync channels for carrying system parameters required at system acquisition and paging channels used to carry overhead messages pages setup messages and orders. Information transmitted to a terminal in a downlink portion may include for example information to control one or more devices co located with the terminal commands to control and or configure the terminal and or the like. As illustrated below a terminal may from time to time hibernate on intervals of a predetermined cycle. In particular implementations such a commands to control and or configure such a terminal may comprise a command to change a hibernation interval of such a predetermined cycle.

In particular implementations a center may communicate with a terminal according to a short message system SMS protocol. Here for example such transmission of messages between a center and terminal according to an SMS protocol may be facilitated by a message center MC and or mobile positioning center for example. Information may be transmitted between a center and associated application server using any one of several communication protocols and network communication infrastructure such as for example TCP IP over any Internet Protocol infrastructure. Here an example implementation of protocol stacks for a terminal center and application server may be as depicted in as protocol stacks and respectively. In at least one alternative implementation to reduce latencies a center may be adapted to communicate directly with an MSC BSS according to a short message delivery point to point bearer service SMDPP . However these are merely examples of how a terminal center and or application server may communicate with one another using particular implementations of protocol stacks and claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

In one aspect a terminal may comprise one or more devices capable of collecting information for use in computing an estimate of a location of the terminal using any one of several techniques. In one implementation radio frequency RF signals received at a receiver not shown associated with a terminal may be used to compute an estimate of a location of the terminal using techniques known to those of skill in the art. Such signals may include for example SPS signals. Here such received SPS signals may be used to determine a pseudorange measurements that may be used to compute an estimate of a location for example. In other implementations such received signals may also include signals received from terrestrial transmitters such as for example transmitters on devices in a WLAN WPAN and or WWAN for example. Characteristics from these signals such as signal strength media access control MAC addresses and or the like may also be used to compute an estimate of a location.

In one example although claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect a device not shown associated with a terminal may be capable of obtaining pseudorange measurements to transmitters based at least in part on SPS signal received at the device using known techniques. Here such a device may be capable of receiving acquisition assistance information from another device such as a position determination entity PDE and or mobile positioning center PDE MPC PDE . In one particular implementation such a device may further be capable of estimating its location based at least in part on such pseudorange measurements obtained from received SPS signals. Alternatively the terminal may forward such pseudorange measurements and or other information derived from received signals through an uplink with an MSC BSS and to a destination such an estimate a location of the terminal can be computed. For example an application server and or PDE may determine a location of a terminal based at least in part on pseudorange measurements and or other information received from the terminal . It should be understood however that this is merely on example of how a location of a device may be estimated according to a particular implementation and claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

At event center may return to application server an estimate of the location of terminal including for example information indicative of uncertainty associated with the estimate. In one alternative upon receipt of a response message at event center may call PDE at an event to request computation of an estimate of the location of terminal . Here such a call to PDE may include for example information received at event that may be used in provide information that may be used in estimating a location of terminal . Based at least in part on such information PDE may compute an estimate of the location of terminal along with a measure of uncertainty of the estimate and transmit a message to center containing same at event in response to the call from center . In a particular implementation although claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect PDE and center may communicate according to any one of several communication protocols such as protocols implemented according to a SnapTrack application programming interface SNAPI .

As illustrated above using particular examples a terminal may communicate with a center over a bi directional communication link including a wireless communication link. In an uplink portion for example terminal may transmit information such as for example status information and or information relating to a location of terminal . Such information may then be forwarded to an application server for example. In a downlink portion of the bi directional communication link center may transmit information such as for example configuration commands to terminal . As illustrated above however terminal may comprise a low duty cycle device which from time to time may be in a hibernating state to for example conserve power. In particular implementations accordingly terminal may need to transition to an awakened state to be able to receive information transmitted from a center in a downlink portion of a bi directional wireless communication link.

As illustrated above terminal may be adapted to intermittently awaken from a hibernated state as for example a low duty cycle device. In particular implementations such as in a CDMA network for example while in an awakened state such a terminal may perform slotted mode operations such as listening to a paging channel receiving messages and sending messages. As such while in an awakened state terminal may transmit information to a center on an uplink portion of a wireless communication link and or receive information from a center on an associated downlink portion. In one particular implementation although claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect such a terminal may be adapted and or configured to awaken from such a hibernated state in synchronization with an associated center . As such the associated center may transmit information to terminal while terminal is awakened from a hibernated state and capable of receiving information on a downlink portion of a wireless communication link.

In one implementation a terminal may register with a wireless communication network by for example acquiring a signal from a nearby MSC BSS and exchanging information using techniques similar to those used for registering devices joining a CDMA network for example. As part of such a registration terminal may indicate attributes such as for example identification information information indicating particular capabilities of terminal such as battery capacity and remaining battery life information specifying a hibernation duty cycle e.g. time between consecutive wake ups Tand or the duration of being in an awakened state in any one cycle . In one particular example such information specifying battery capacity and or remaining battery life may enable an application server to compute an appropriate hibernation interval for the terminal e.g. longer hibernation intervals if the battery is weak or has low capacity and or configure terminal according to appropriate times between wake up events and duration intervals for terminal to be in an awakened state. Such information may also be used for triggering messages to a remote user e.g. via SMS messages notifying the remote user that the battery is getting low and needs to be replaced or recharged.

In one implementation following registration terminal may be placed in an idle but awakened state for a defined duration to receive messages from a downlink portion of a communication link. During this duration for example a center may forward any pending messages addressed to the registered terminal and received at center e.g. from an application server prior to registration.

In another implementation in response registration of the terminal with the network a center may transmit a configuration message to the registered terminal . Such a configuration message may include information such as for example T time at which terminal is permitted to begin unsolicited messaging and or T time after which terminal is not permitted to send any more messages . Accordingly with knowledge of T Tand T periods of terminal in an awakened state may be synchronized with a center to receive downlink messages as pointed out above. During such a period when terminal is in an awakened state for example the center may forward in a downlink portion of a wireless communication link messages including pending messages and or commands addressed to the terminal e.g. from an application server .

In yet another implementation a terminal may transmit an unscheduled and unsolicited message to a center to indicate that the terminal is in an awakened state for a duration during which the terminal may receive downlink messages. In response to such an unsolicited message the center may locate and obtain pending messages that are addressed to the terminal and forward these messages in a downlink portion of a wireless communication link as illustrated above.

In one example a terminal may lose synchronization with a center . In one particular implementation a terminal may be adapted to transmit a keep alive message to the center at intervals. Here such a keep alive message may include information such as for example information provided in a registration message for example.

In particular implementations a center may schedule messages for transmission to a terminal . For example a center may store messages addressed to a terminal in a data structure that permits transmission through an associated MSC BSS during periods in which a recipient terminal is in an awakened state and capable of receiving messages from a downlink portion of a wireless communication link. A center may schedule downlink messages to be forwarded by a particular MSC BSS on regular scheduling intervals. For example a center may select a particular scheduling interval for transmission of a downlink message through an MSC BSS to a terminal to synchronize transmission of the downlink message during a subsequent period in which the terminal is in an awakened state. Accordingly the recipient terminal may be adapted to intermittently awaken from a hibernating state in synchronization with a center to receive downlink messages.

In one particular implementation a center may schedule such downlink messages in a particular scheduling interval based at least in part on an average delay Tin transmission of a downlink message from the associated MSC BSS following receipt of such a messages from the center . Here the center may forward messages to an associated MSC BSS at Tprior to scheduled transmission to a terminal by for example passing the messages to an appropriate application and or transport layer e.g. in protocol stack .

As illustrated elsewhere herein a terminal may be adapted to communicate with an associated MSC BSS in a wireless communication link according to a CDMA protocol. In this particular implementation following a boot sequence and registration as discussed above a terminal may be placed in a slotted mode where a wake up time may be determined as follows 

Synchronous scheduling as used in one implementation is illustrated in . Shown are timelines illustrating for a center and a terminal . It will be appreciated that depicts timelines for a single center and a single terminal and that particular implementations may provide for at least one center and a plurality of terminals . A wake up time for the terminal based at least in part on T has been hashed and is known to both center and terminal . The center may have received messages e.g. from an AS for transmission to the terminal which have been stored and sorted in a memory not shown according to a destination associated with terminal and time of future transmission. At substantially wake up time the center may initiate transmission of a message at time including any stored messages for transmission to the terminal . Such a message is received at time by the terminal . A responsive message may be received by the center from the terminal . Before transition to hibernation at time is reached the terminal may transmit one or more messages to center received at time . In the particular illustration of receipt of such messages by center occurs at time prior to transition to hibernation at time . It should be understood however that in other scenarios center may actually receive such messages after such a transition of the terminal to hibernation. Such a message may comprise for example a KA message including information regarding operational status battery status network information and a request for configuration data. In one implementation after Toccurs and the terminal is regarded as being in a hibernating state the center at time may select pending messages for transmission to the terminal the next transmission time coinciding with the subsequent period in which terminal transitions to an awakened state. While shows merely one time during a hibernation interval at which the center may select pending messages for transmission it should be understood that the center may make such a selection at multiple times during such a hibernation interval. At substantially the next awakening at time the center may initiate transmission of pending messages to the terminal after which the center receives at time a message from the terminal . At time the center may continue to receive messages such as KA messages depending upon an amount of time left before transition back to a hibernating state . In another implementation transitions between a hibernating state and awakened state at times and may be dynamically adjusted according to the number and nature of the messages sent and received by center for transmission to terminal . For example if the number of pending messages is too large to be carried by a single SMS message transmitted at times or then only a portion will be transmitted at these times. Upon receiving messages at times and the center may then reset and extend transitions to a hibernating state at times and . A center may then send not shown a subsequent portion and or remainder of the pending messages in a similar manner. This process may be continued until all of the pending messages addressed to terminal are transmitted by the center .

In one particular implementation synchronization and or timing between a center and a terminal may be substantially de coupled from timing of transmission of uplink and downlink messages in a wireless communication link. Referring again to protocol stacks and illustrating communication between a center and terminal in one implementation SMS messages may be transmitted between communication layers of respective center and terminal without regard to message timing on uplink and downlink messages. In one particular implementation SMS messages may be transmitted be transmitted between a message center and center in data packets over Internet Protocol infrastructure. Thus center may schedule messages and or periods when terminal is hibernating or awake independently of the timing of messages transmitted in the uplink and downlink portions between terminal and an MSC BSS . Accordingly a center may be geographically decoupled and or removed from a cellular network and placed elsewhere for more convenient access by a party who communicates with terminal .

In one implementation as discussed above a center may determine a length of a duration in which a terminal is in an awakened state in any one cycle. The center may set this duration by for example specifying such a duration in one or more configuration messages transmitted to the terminal . In another implementation a center may determine such a duration based at least in part on an uncertainty associated with the average delay Tin transmission of a downlink message from an associated MSC BSS following receipt of such a messages from the center . Here for example if the uncertainty associated with Tincreases the center may increase the duration in which a terminal is in an awakened state in any one cycle to ensure that the terminal will be in an awakened state to received messages. Likewise if the uncertainty associated with Tdecreases the center may decrease this duration. Here it should be understood that decreasing the duration in which a terminal is in an awakened state may be advantageous to increasing longevity of a batter powering operation of the terminal .

In one implementation although claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect the average delay Tin transmission of a downlink message may be determined based at least in part upon round trip message times e.g. difference between time and or between and as shown in . Similarly an uncertainty in the actual delay of this transmission may be determined from a variance about the average delay T.

In a particular implementation a terminal may comprise a device as shown in which is capable of processing SPS signals received at an antenna for determining pseudorange measurements and communicating with a wireless communication network through antenna . Here a radio transceiver may be adapted to modulate an RF carrier signal with baseband information such as data voice and or SMS messages onto an RF carrier and demodulate a modulated RF carrier to obtain such baseband information. Antenna may be adapted to transmit a modulated RF carrier over a wireless communications link and receive a modulated RF carrier over a wireless communications link.

Baseband processor may be adapted to provide baseband information from CPU to transceiver for transmission over a wireless communications link. Here CPU may obtain such baseband information from a local interface which may include for example environmental sensory data motion sensor data altitude data acceleration information e.g. from an accelerometer proximity to other networks e.g. ZigBee Bluetooth WiFi peer to peer . Such baseband information may also include location information such as for example an estimate of a location of device and or information that may be used in computing same such as for example pseudorange measurements.

SPS receiver SPS Rx may be adapted to receive and demodulate transmissions from SVs and provide demodulated information to correlator . Correlator may be adapted to derive correlation functions from the information provided by receiver . Correlator may also be adapted to derived pilot related correlation functions from information relating to pilot signals provided by transceiver . This information may be used by device acquire a wireless communications network.

Channel decoder may be adapted to decode channel symbols received from baseband processor into underlying source bits. In one example where channel symbols comprise convolutionally encoded symbols such a channel decoder may comprise a Viterbi decoder. In a second example where channel symbols comprise serial or parallel concatenations of convolutional codes channel decoder may comprise a turbo decoder.

Memory may be adapted to store machine readable instructions which are executable to perform one or more of processes examples implementations or examples thereof which have been described or suggested. CPU may be adapted to access and execute such machine readable instructions. However these are merely examples of tasks that may be performed by a CPU in a particular aspect and claimed subject matter in not limited in these respects.

While there has been illustrated and described what are presently considered to be example features it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed but that such claimed subject matter may also include all aspects falling within the scope of appended claims and equivalents thereof. One or more claims may recite a feature in the form A or B or both to specify that such a feature may include element limitation A or element limitation B or both element limitation A and element limitation B . Furthermore such a feature recited in the form A or B or both is not to exclude the presence of elements in addition to element limitation A or element limitation B .

