---

title: Optimizing speed and reach of mass notification alert delivery
abstract: A system and a method are disclosed for predicting potential reach of an alert to a targeted audience, targeted personal delivery devices and targeted non-personal notification delivery devices in an emergency mass notification system. The method includes receiving recipients and alert delivery devices data which define a targeted audience and devices of an emergency alert. The method further comprises evaluating contact and configuration data targeting quality rating, tracking data targeting quality rating and real-time data targeting quality rating based on the received recipients and devices data and a data sources repository. Responsive to the targeting quality ratings and prediction weighting data (e.g., numeric weights and descriptive thresholds), the method generating one or more predictions of the potential reach of the alert based on the targeting quality ratings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09564044&OS=09564044&RS=09564044
owner: AtHoc, Inc.
number: 09564044
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141212
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 975 202 filed Aug. 23 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 542 117 filed on Feb. 15 2011 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 305 678 filed on Feb. 18 2010 entitled PREDICTIVE ALERT TARGETING FOR MASS NOTIFICATION SYSTEMS all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of emergency mass notification systems more particularly to predicting the potential reach of an alert to its targeted recipients and devices within an emergency mass notification system.

Organizations face many threats which may affect their operation and safety and security of their facilities and personnel. There is a growth of use of Emergency Mass Notification Systems EMNS by many organizations and on different levels e.g. from national state local to corporate and organization levels. Emergency Mass Notification Systems allow authorized personnel and external systems to trigger alerts that are sent to targeted recipients via a variety of personal communication devices including electronic mail email short messaging system SMS voice phone alerts desktop pop ups and others. Emergency Mass Notification Systems may also use non personal notification devices such as indoor speakers outdoor speakers reader boards digital displays Land Mobile Radios LMRs AM FM Radios TV broadcast strobes fire alarms and others. Emergency Mass Notification Systems allow one to maintain a repository of users along with personal attributes i.e. location role organizational unit training level etc. and the contact details of their personal communication devices and to build a dynamic targeted recipient list for use while sending a specific emergency notification.

Targeted recipient list can be built by any combination of the following pre defined distribution lists dynamic lists geographical physical location organizational units dynamic database query or other methods or by selecting a pre defined scenario i.e. policy that includes pre selection of such targeted recipient list that may or may not be modified before activating the alert. Emergency Mass Notification Systems usually include a list of non personal notification devices to be targeted and activated including sirens speakers digital displays strobes fire alarms and others. Similarly targeted non personal notification devices may include any combination of pre defined distribution lists dynamic lists geographical physical location dynamic database query or other methods or by selecting a pre defined scenario that includes pre selection of such targeted non personal notification devices that may or may not be modified before activating the alert.

One challenge faced by conventional Emergency Mass Notification Systems is that regardless of the method used to select the targeted recipient list an alert initiator administrator or external system has little or no idea during alert activation what is the potential reach of the alert across a targeted audience or targeted devices. For example some Emergency Mass Notification Systems show the number of targeted recipients or a list of targeted recipients or devices but no indication whether that these targeted recipients and or devices can be reached at all because contact details for the recipients may be missing or invalid or may not be up to date. Some conventional Emergency Mass Notification Systems provide detailed delivery and response tracking and aggregated results reporting yet this information is provided after the notification has been activated and does not provide any pre activation indication of the potential reach of the notification.

This difficulty leads to ineffective alerting where an alert sender cannot know what the potential reach of the alert is and may lose time during an emergency situation trying to alert recipients or non personal notification devices with missing contact details invalid or stale contact details disconnected non personal notification devices or invalid non personal notification devices data. Thus there is lacking inter alia a system and method for predicting the potential reach of an alert to its targeted recipients and devices via a given set of designated delivery methods within an emergency mass notification system.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One embodiment of a disclosed system method and computer readable storage medium that includes receiving targeted recipients and designated alert delivery devices personal communication devices and non personal notification devices and evaluating one or more targeting quality ratings of the targeted recipients and devices data. The targeted recipients and designated alert delivery devices data define a targeted audience of an alert comprising of targeted users targeted personal communication devices and or targeted non personal notification devices. Evaluating the targeting quality ratings includes evaluating contact and device configuration data targeting quality rating based on the targeted recipients and devices data and a user device information database. Evaluating the targeting quality ratings also includes evaluating tracking data targeting quality rating based on the received recipients and devices data and an alert delivery events information database. Evaluating the targeting quality ratings further includes evaluating real time data targeting quality rating based on the received recipients and devices data and a real time data database. Responsive to the targeting quality ratings and prediction weighting data e.g. numeric weights and descriptive thresholds the method generating one or more predictions of the potential reach of the alert based on the targeting quality ratings.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a smartphone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs or any combination of these a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include graphics display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device which also are configured to communicate via the bus .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions e.g. software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor e.g. within a processor s cache memory during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions e.g. software may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions e.g. instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies disclosed herein. The term machine readable medium includes but not be limited to data repositories in the form of solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

Referring now to illustrated is a system architectural overview of a predictive alert targeting system . The system comprises a predictive alert targeting engine a targeting quality rating engine and a data sources repository which can be based on a commercial database for example MICROSOFT SQL Server ORACLE database server MySQL or other similar products. The system receives targeted recipients users and targeted devices personal communication devices and non personal notification devices from system administrators or received from external systems via Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The targeted recipients and targeted devices identify a targeted audience and devices for emergency alerts. The predictive alert targeting engine sends the targeted users and or devices to the targeting quality rating engine . The targeting quality rating engine evaluates targeting quality ratings of the targeted users and the devices against the data sources repository and reports the targeting quality ratings to the predictive alert targeting engine for further processing. The predictive alert targeting engine predicts the potential reach of an alert to its targeted recipients and or devices based on the targeting quality ratings weighted by predictive weighting data . The predictive alert targeting engine further reports the prediction results . The targeting quality rating engine is further described with reference to and the predictive alerter targeting engine is further described with reference to .

The data sources repository comprises a user and devices information database a tracking database of historical alert delivery events and a real time data database . The user and devices information database is a database repository of users along with user attributes such as role location organizational hierarchy and others and the user contact data for their personal communication devices such as phone numbers SMS addresses email addresses Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP Active Directory identities Internet Protocol IP addresses . The data set can include timestamps of last update of the contact details and identity of the personnel who made the update. For example the update is self updated by a user self updated by end user device imported from an external user database or updated by another user or system. The user and devices information database may also include information of non personal notification devices their identities and connection attributes e.g. siren pole numbers or unique device identity locations zones and IP addresses .

The tracking database of the data sources repository includes historical tracking of alert delivery events. The historical tracking of an alert delivery event includes a timestamp of the event user or non personal notification device identity actual device address identity used for the alert delivery and information about the alert delivery event. The information about the alert delivery event may include message sent message received message rejected message acknowledged and the response if applicable by a user or an end point.

The real time data database includes current or up to date information about users and non personal devices end points. The information may include the location presence and connectivity of the users and delivery end points such as user presence status as indicated by presence aware systems such as instant messaging systems user current location as may be reported by mobile devices or Global Position System GPS and connectivity status to a siren pole or a public address system. Real time data also includes timestamp for a data item in the real time data database .

The predictive alert targeting system predicts the potential reach of an alert to its targeted recipients and or devices. The targeted recipients and targeted devices identify a targeted audience and devices for an emergency alert. The targeted recipients data and targeted device are provided by system administrators or received from external systems via APIs. The targeted recipients identify a designated set of users or non personal notification devices delivery end points. The targeted devices identify a designated set of alert personal communication devices associated with the targeted users or the non personal notification devices delivery end points. The designated set of alert personal communication devices can also be derived from personal delivery preferences associated with the end users.

The prediction weighting data includes quantitative and or qualitative measures such as numeric values as weights or descriptive thresholds to influence the targeting quality rating process and the prediction of the potential reach of an alert. In one embodiment the prediction weighting data is a set of numeric weight values indicating a range of weights to be assigned to a targeted user and or delivery device. For example for a targeted user not having a phone number the prediction weighting data is 1. On the other hand for a targeted user having two or more phone numbers the prediction weighting data is higher e.g. 5 ranging from 1to 5 . Similarly in another embodiment the prediction weighting data is a set of descriptive levels describing the characteristics of the targeted user and or delivery device. For example for a more recent successful alert delivery event to a targeted user the prediction weighting data is very high. For an alert delivery event delivered 1year ago to the targeted user the prediction weighting data is very low. Other embodiments may use the combination of numeric values and descriptive levels as the prediction weighting data or other weighting schemes known to those of ordinary skills in the art. The predictive alert targeting system has a default set of prediction weighting data and the system allows system administrators and or end users and or APIs to reset and or reconfigure the prediction weighting data e.g. to give more weight to recently updated data .

Referring now to is a flow chart of generating alert targeting quality prediction by the predictive alert targeting system according to one embodiment. Other embodiments perform different and or additional steps than the ones described here. Moreover other embodiments perform the steps in different orders. A typical embodiment of the predictive alert targeting system processes multiple alerts potential reach predictions concurrently. Thus the predictive alert targeting system simultaneously performs multiple instances of the steps described here.

Initially the predictive alert targeting engine receives targeted recipients and devices data from a system administrator or received from external systems via APIs. The predictive alert targeting engine may further receive prediction weighting data for targeting quality rating evaluation and prediction of potential reach of an alert. The targeting quality rating engine of the system receives the targeted recipients and or devices data from the predictive alert targeting engine . The targeting quality rating engine evaluates the targeting quality ratings of the received data against the data sources repository and generates targeting quality rating data for the targeted recipients and devices. The targeting quality rating engine sends the targeting quality rating data to the predictive alert targeting engine for further processing. The predictive alert targeting engine generates the prediction of potential reach of the alert based on the targeting quality rating data and the prediction weighting data. The predictive alert targeting engine further outputs the prediction results to the system . The output may be presented in a user interface UI to an administrator to a user or to an external system via API. The administrator or the external system may choose to update the targeted recipients and or devices and run through the predictive alert targeting engine again to assess how the changes had changed the prediction results.

For a targeted set of users and their alert delivery devices and or non personal notification devices delivery end points the targeting quality rating engine evaluates the targeting quality rating of the targeted set of users and their personal delivery devices and or the targeting quality rating of the targeted set of non personal notification devices. illustrates one embodiment of the targeting quality rating engine of the predictive alert targeting system . The targeting quality rating engine illustrated in comprises a contact data targeting quality rating engine a historical targeting quality rating engine and a real time targeting quality rating engine . The targeting quality rating engine is communicatively coupled to the databases and of the data sources repository and to the predictive alert targeting engine . The flow charts of evaluating the targeting quality rating of the set of users and their personal delivery devices are further described below with references to .

The contact data targeting quality rating engine is communicatively coupled to the predictive alert targeting engine and to the user and device information database of the data sources repository . The engine receives the targeted recipients their alert delivery devices and or targeted non personal notification devices from the predictive alert targeting engine . The engine may further receive prediction weighting data from the predictive alert targeting engine or directly from the system . The engine searches the user and device database based on the received recipients and delivery devices to collect relevant user device data. The engine evaluates the retrieved data based on the prediction weighting data to generate one or more targeting quality ratings TQRs of the received recipients personal delivery devices and or non personal notification devices. A possible flow chart of evaluating the targeting quality rating of the set of users and their personal delivery devices by the engine is further described below with reference to .

In one embodiment the engine runs a targeting quality rating algorithm to generate the TQRs. For a recipient and his her alert delivery device s the evaluation algorithm considers data availability data validity and data update quality of the relevant data retrieved from the user and device database . For example a user may not have a phone number which results in a low TQR. The engine further evaluates the validity of the relevant data. For example a phone number can be incomplete or invalid which results in a low TQR. The engine uses the prediction weighting data to adjust the valid data retrieved from the user and device database . For example a valid user data may get a higher rating if it was updated recently by the user or by its device comparing with a user data which has not been updated or validated for some period of time.

The engine generates one or more TQRs for the received recipient and his her delivery devices. For example the engine generates a TQR for each user device combination e.g. user email address user phone number or siren pole identity . In another embodiment the engine generates a TQR for each end user their personal communication devices and for each non personal notification device end node. The engine sends the TQRs to the predictive targeting engine for further processing.

The historical targeting quality rating engine is communicatively coupled to the predictive alert targeting engine and to the tracking database of the data sources repository . The engine receives the targeted recipients their alert delivery devices and or the targeted non personal notification devices from the predictive alert targeting engine . The engine may further receive prediction weighting data from the predictive alert targeting engine or directly from the system . The engine searches the tracking database based on the received recipients and delivery devices to collect relevant user device data. The engine evaluates the retrieved data based on the prediction weighting data to generate one or more TQRs of the received recipients and delivery devices. A possible flow chart of evaluating the targeting quality rating of the set of users and their personal delivery devices by the engine is further described below with reference to .

In one embodiment the engine runs a targeting quality rating algorithm to generate the TQR. For a recipient and his her alert delivery device s the evaluation algorithm considers data availability consistency of alerts delivery and data update quality of the relevant data retrieved from the tracking database . For example a user personal communication device combination which has no delivery event gets a low TQR rating while a responded delivery event may get a higher TQR depending on the type of delivery event e.g. positive no error delivery events . The freshness of data may also affect rating where recent alert delivery events e.g. in the last 30 days gets a higher rating than older events e.g. a year ago . In a similar manner an end user device combination which consistently and successfully responded in the last period of time gets higher rating than those which did not respond in a consistent manner e.g. failed 10 times and succeeded once in the last 10 days .

The engine generates one or more TQRs for the received recipient and his her delivery devices. For example the engine generates a TQR for each user device combination e.g. user email address user phone number or siren pole identity . In another embodiment the engine generates a TQR for each end user their personal communication devices and for each non personal device end node. The engine sends the TQRs to the predictive targeting engine for further processing.

The real time targeting quality rating engine is communicatively coupled to the predictive alert targeting engine and to the real time data database of the data sources repository . The engine receives the targeted recipients their personal communication devices and targeted non personal notification devices from the predictive alert targeting engine . The engine may further receive prediction weighting data from the predictive alert targeting engine or directly from the system . The engine searches the real time data database based on the received recipients and delivery devices to collect relevant user device data. The engine evaluates the retrieved data based on the prediction weighting data to generate one or more TQRs of the received recipients and delivery devices. A possible flow chart of evaluating the targeting quality rating of the set of users and their personal delivery devices by the engine is further described below with reference to .

In one embodiment the engine runs a targeting quality rating algorithm to generate the TQRs. For a recipient his her alert delivery device s and for non personal notification devices the evaluation algorithm considers current status and data update quality of the relevant data retrieved from real time data database . For example a user alert delivery device may include presence information which indicates that the user is online and is available for instant messaging. The user alert delivery device may also include connectivity status of a siren pole or digital display indicating it is ready to receive a new alert message activation. The update quality may affect rating as well where more recent update e.g. last minute gets a higher rating than the data from five minutes ago.

The engine generates one or more TQRs for the received recipient and his her delivery devices and for non personal notification devices. For example the engine generates a TQR for each user device combination e.g. user email address user phone number or siren pole identity . In another embodiment the engine generates a TQR for each end user their personal communication devices and for each non personal notification device end node. The engine sends the TQRs to the predictive targeting engine for further processing.

Referring now to is a flow chart of evaluating the targeting quality rating of contact data by the data targeting quality rating engine according to one embodiment. Initially the engine receives targeted users their personal communication devices and targeted non personal notification devices as its input data from the predictive alert targeting engine . The input data indentifies the targeted audiences and the alert delivery devices to be evaluated by the engine . The engine evaluates whether there are relevant data e.g. phone number siren identity from the user and device database . Responsive to absence of any relevant data in the user and device database the engine assigns a zero rating e.g. ZERO to the input data. Responsive to existence of some relevant data in the user and device database the engine assigns a high i.e. GOOD rating to the input data and further evaluates the relevant data retrieved from the user and device database .

The engine first evaluates whether the retrieved data is valid. Responsive to the retrieved data being not valid i.e. knowing that the retrieved data is not good the engine assigns a zero rating to the input data. Responsive to the retrieved data being unknown i.e. not knowing whether the retrieved data is good the engine assigns a medium rating e.g. MID to the input data. Responsive to the retrieved data being valid the engine assigns a good rating e.g. GOOD to the input data. For valid or unknown data retrieved from the user database the engine further checks whether the retrieved data was updated less than a predefined period of time e.g. 10 days ago . In one embodiment the engine guides its evaluation by the prediction weighting data e.g. weight threshold . Responsive to the retrieved data not being updated less than the predefined period of time the engine assigns a medium rating to the input data. The engine assigns a good rating to the input data in response to the retrieved data being updated. The engine further investigates the source of the update. Responsive to the data being updated by the user who is same as one of the targeted recipients the engine assigns a good rating to the input data. Otherwise the engine assigns a medium rating to the input data. The update method may also be not relevant for example in case of non personal notification device in which case no rating is given. The engine may use the weight threshold data to weigh its evaluation. The engine generates final rating from the ratings generated at different evaluation stages.

The engine further evaluates the data update quality of the delivery events retrieved form the tracking database . The engine first evaluates whether the delivery events were updated less than a predefined period of time e.g. 10 days ago . In one embodiment the engine guides its evaluation by the prediction weighting data e.g. weight threshold . Responsive to the retrieved data not being updated less than the predefined period of time the engine assigns a medium rating to the input data. In response to the delivery events being updated less than the predefined period of time the engine investigates the consistency of alter delivery. Responsive to the alter delivery events being positive delivery the engine assigns a good rating to the input data. A positive delivery indicates that the alerts successfully reached their targeted audiences. Responsive to the delivery events reaching than less a predefined percentage of delivery attempts e.g. 40 the engine assigns a low rating to the input data. Otherwise the engine assigns a medium rating to the input data. The engine generates final rating from the ratings generated at different evaluation stages.

Responsive to existence of relevant data in the real time data database the engine further investigates the quality of connectivity of a delivery device identified by the input data based on the weight threshold data . In one embodiment the engine guides its evaluation by the prediction weighting data e.g. weight threshold . Responsive to the connectivity being good the engine assigns a good rating to the input data. The engine assigns a zero rating to the input data in response to no connectivity or the connectivity being bad. The engine generates final rating from the ratings generated at different evaluation stages.

Referring now to illustrates one embodiment of a predictive alert targeting engine of the predictive alert targeting system . The predictive alert targeting engine communicates with the targeting quality rating engine and predicts the potential reach of an alert to its targeted audiences based on the TQRs from the engine . The predictive alert targeting engine illustrated in comprises a targeted user and device data module a prediction weighting data module and a prediction module .

The targeted user data module receives the targeted recipients and the targeted devices from system administrators or received from external systems. The targeted recipients and devices personal and non personal identify a targeted audience for emergency alerts. For example the targeted user data module receives a set of users with designated personal delivery devices as its targeted recipients and devices . Alternatively the targeted recipients and devices may represent a set of sirens and digital displays to activate. In one embodiment the targeted user and device data module sends the targeted recipients to the targeting quality engine for further processing. In another embodiment the targeted user and device data module sends the targeted devices to the targeting quality engine for further processing. In other embodiments the targeted user and device data module sends both the targeted recipients and devices to the targeting quality engine for further processing.

The prediction weighting data module receives prediction weighting data such as numeric weights value or descriptive thresholds from end users system administrators or received from external systems. In one embodiment the prediction weighting data module sets default values of the prediction weighting data by the system administrators. In another embodiment the prediction weighting data module allows an end user to modify the default values of the prediction weighting data. In yet another embodiment the prediction weighting data module receives updates from external system via API to modify the default values of the prediction weighting data. The prediction weighting data module sends the received prediction weighting data to the targeting quality rating engine for its rating evaluation. The prediction weighting data module also sends the received prediction weighting data to the prediction module to guide the prediction.

The prediction module receives one or more targeting quality ratings from the targeting quality rating engine and generates multiple predictions of the potential reach of an alert to its targeted audiences based on the targeting quality ratings. In one embodiment the prediction module provides an alert targeting quality prediction for each end user or non personal notification device end point received by the target user data module . The prediction for an end user non personal notification device end point gives an estimation of whether this end user non personal notification device end point can be reached via the designated delivery devices associated with the end user non personal notification device end point. For example an end user that has successfully responded in the last time period using the designated delivery devices is regarded as reachable. An end user which has not responded via any of the delivery devices but has valid delivery device addresses that were self updated in the last time period has a higher targeting quality prediction than an end user with no relevant data or no valid delivery device addresses. An end user with no relevant data or valid delivery device addresses is regarded as not reachable. In a similar manner a siren pole which was connected as of a minute ago and was successfully targeted in the last week is regarded as reachable. 

In another embodiment the prediction module generates a prediction on the overall alert targeting quality based on the targeting quality ratings from the targeting quality rating engine . The prediction module can provide percentages of reachable recipients out of the total targeted recipients with respect to the delivery devices associated with the recipients. For example out of 170 targeted recipients 110 are reachable 50 are not reachable and 10 may need further investigation on their reachability. The prediction module sends the prediction results to the predictive alert targeting system . In another embodiment the predication module can provide how many of the non personal notification devices in a certain area have been successfully used in the last day designating them as reachable . For example 17 out of 19 siren poles in a specific geographic area may be designated as reachable and the remaining 2 siren poles may not be functional and may need further action to ensure operational status.

Usage of the predictive alert targeting engine is further illustrated in the following use cases. The prediction alert targeting engine can be used during alert scenario preparation to evaluate each alert scenario created by system administrators. For example for an alert scenario to be evaluated the system administrators input a set of end users and delivery devices data as the targeted alert audience to the predictive alert targeting engine . The predictive alert targeting engine communicates the received targeted audience data with the targeting quality rating engine . The targeting quality rating engine in turn evaluates the targeting quality ratings of the targeted audiences in terms of data availability data validity consistency of alerts delivery user presence and device connectivity. The predictive alert targeting engine generates the predictions of the potential reach of the alert and presents the predictions to the system administrators. Based on the predictions the system administrators adjust the alert scenario and send the updates to the predictive alert targeting engine . The predictive alert targeting engine updates the predictions by iteratively evaluating the adjustment. The predictive alert targeting system stores the predictions together with the alert scenarios as baseline alert predictions for future reference.

The prediction alert targeting engine can be used during alert activation. For example for an alert being activated the predictive alert targeting engine receives a set of targeted recipients and delivery devices and communicates with the targeting quality rating engine . The targeting quality rating engine in turn evaluates the targeting quality ratings of the targeted audiences in terms of data availability data validity consistency of alerts delivery user presence and device connectivity. The predictive alert targeting engine generates the predictions of the potential reach of the alert and presents the prediction to the system administrators. In one embodiment the predictive alert targeting engine may compare the current predictions with the stored baseline alert predictions if available . If there is a significant degradation of the current predictions from the baseline alert predictions the predictive alert targeting system sends warnings to the system administrators. In a similar way the predictive alert targeting system can return warnings to application programming interfaces APIs used to activate alerts from external systems and sources. The external systems and sources can use the warnings to verify the targeted audience before activating the alert and potentially update the targeted audience and devices or initiate further action.

The prediction alert targeting engine can be used during alert delivery process where alert delivery can be prioritized based on the alert predictions from the engine . For example based on the alert prediction from the engine the predictive alert targeting system delivers first to those end users devices combinations which have higher targeting quality ratings to ensure successful delivery to more reachable end users and devices.

The prediction alert targeting engine can be used for on demand analysis of end user end points data where a system administrator analyzes the targeting quality e.g. ability to reach or targetability of a designated targeted audience using personal delivery devices or non personal notification devices. The targeting quality assessment based on the alert targeting prediction from the engine allows administrators to monitor and initiate activities to improve targeting quality or alert dissemination tests to ensure all targeted audience can be reached during a real emergency situation.

Similarly the prediction alert targeting engine can be used for periodic or scheduled monitoring and improvement of alert targeting prediction. For example a monthly automated process of the engine can evaluate all or designated subset of users and non personal notification devices for their alert targeting quality prediction and then automatically submit reminders to users who have missing invalid data and or stale data to update their contact details. In a similar manner such process can notify system administrators to verify connectivity to a certain digital display or siren pole whose alert prediction quality degraded over time.

The disclosed embodiments beneficially allow for prediction of potential reach of an alert across a targeted audience in an Emergency Mass Notification System. The benefit includes enhanced emergency alert scenario preparation iterative alert targeting prediction refinement during alert activation alert delivery process optimization and on demand analysis of end users personal communication devices contact data and non personal notification device end points data. The benefit further includes periodic and scheduled alert monitoring and alert targeting prediction enhancement.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms for example as described with . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented e.g. processor . For example at least some of the operations of a method e.g. as described in may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors e.g. may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors e.g. not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for predicting potential reach of an alert to a targeted audience in an emergency mass notification system through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

