---

title: Mobile device safe driving
abstract: In embodiments of mobile device safe driving, a mobile device can display a device lock screen on an integrated display device, and transition from the device lock screen to display a driving mode lock screen. The transition to display the driving mode lock screen occurs without receiving a PIN code entered on the device lock screen. The mobile device implements a safe driving service that is implemented to activate a safe driving mode of the mobile device, and disable features of the mobile device while the safe driving mode is activated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491589&OS=09491589&RS=09491589
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09491589
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140924
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. Section 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 726 097 filed Dec. 22 2012 entitled Mobile Device Safe Driving which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 580 131 filed Dec. 23 2011 entitled Mobile Device Safe Driving and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 695 294 filed Aug. 30 2012 entitled Mobile Device Kid Space the entire disclosures of each of these applications being incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Many types of devices such as mobile phones tablet devices and other computing communication and entertainment devices increasingly offer more functions applications and features which are beneficial to a user and can enhance one s personal time as well as work and social activities. For example not only can a mobile phone be used for text email and voice communications but may also be used for entertainment such as to listen to music surf the Internet watch video content gaming and for photo and video imaging. Similarly a portable tablet device may be utilized for email browser navigation and other computing applications as well as for the various entertainment and photo features. A significant trend and increasing problem with these always connected mobile devices is distracted driving. Many drivers and particularly teenage drivers are tempted to send a quick text make a call or check a voice message while driving which may lead to an accident.

This Summary introduces features and simplified concepts of mobile device safe driving which is further described below in the Detailed Description and or shown in the Figures. This Summary should not be considered to describe essential features of the claimed subject matter nor used to determine or limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Mobile device safe driving is described. In embodiments a mobile device can display a device lock screen on an integrated display device and transition from the device lock screen to display a driving mode lock screen. The transition to display the driving mode lock screen is without receiving a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. The mobile device implements a safe driving service that is implemented to activate a safe driving mode of the mobile device which disables features of the mobile device while the safe driving mode is activated.

In embodiments the safe driving service is implemented to register safe driving events and unsafe driving events associated with use of the mobile device by a user of the mobile device driving. The safe driving service is configured to aggregate the safe driving events and generate a safe driving report that indicates safe driving and or unsafe driving. The safe driving service can also communicate the safe driving report to an associated device of the mobile device. The safe driving report can indicate that the features of the mobile device were enabled by user override of a safe driving mode while the mobile device was moving in a vehicle.

In embodiments the mobile device includes a communication interface for notification communication with associated devices of the device. The safe driving service can initiate communication of an unsafe driving notification to the associated devices. The device that is moving in the vehicle may include an audio sensor to detect audio in the vehicle and the safe driving service can generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate that the audio in the vehicle is a driver distraction. The safe driving service can also generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate that the features of the device have been enabled by user override of a safe driving mode while the device is moving in the vehicle and the user of the device is driving the vehicle. The driver of a vehicle may be identified with a vehicle camera or vehicle sensors such as to detect voice ID other biometric ID e.g. a fingerprint reader integrated into the steering wheel and or other types of sensors within the vehicle that report back to the device to indicate that the user of the device is driving the vehicle. Other types of sensors may include seat sensors and heat and or contact sensors integrated into the steering wheel of a vehicle.

The safe driving service can also be implemented to determine that vehicle motion is erratic based on the motion data and then generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate to users of the associated devices that the vehicle motion is erratic. The safe driving service is also implemented to determine that at least one of the associated devices is proximate the device in the vehicle and determine that the associated device corresponds to an adult user. The safe driving service can then enable the features of the device when the associated device is proximate the device in the vehicle and corresponds to the adult user.

The safe driving service is also implemented to receive speed limit data that corresponds to a location of the vehicle and communicate a vehicle speed limit to the vehicle to control vehicle speed at the location of the vehicle. The safe driving service is also implemented to determine that the vehicle has stopped at an unknown location and determine the location of the vehicle from the location data. The safe driving service can then generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate that the vehicle has stopped at the unknown location.

In other embodiments a safe driving system includes a network service e.g. a network of one or more server devices that executes computer instructions as a safe driving service. The safe driving service is implemented to receive an unsafe driving notification from a device that is moving in a vehicle when a user of the device is driving the vehicle. The safe driving notification may indicate a driving condition. The safe driving service can then determine associated devices of the device based on identifiers of the device and the associated devices and communicate the safe driving notification received from the device to the associated devices. The safe driving service can also receive a vehicle notification from the vehicle and communicate the vehicle notification to the associated devices. The safe driving service can also be implemented to receive location data that indicates a location of the vehicle receive speed limit data that corresponds to the location of the vehicle and communicate a vehicle speed limit to the vehicle to control vehicle speed at the location of the vehicle.

Embodiments of mobile device safe driving are described and provide a safe driving service that can be implemented as a mobile device service or application such as in a mobile phone portable tablet device or other type of computing and or communication device. Sensor systems may be implemented in an effort to determine whether a user owner of a mobile phone is both using the phone device and driving at the same time. However this may be difficult to accurately detect and the likelihood of false positives can lead to incorrect determinations and false reporting. One solution for improving driving safety is to make it easier for a driver to be more responsible with less possibility of distraction.

A safe driving mode places a mobile phone in a mode that minimizes distraction and can help a driver be safer and more responsible while driving. A core goal of safe driving mode is not to attract attention to the device screen or divert a driver s attention from the road. If drivers can simply initiate a safe driving mode without having to first enter a PIN code on a device lock screen it is likely the drivers will choose the safer option and use the service. Additionally the safe driving service can override the safe driving mode and return the device to normal user mode operation such as when the device moved in manner that indicates use of the device is safe such as when determining that driving has stopped. Further a user of the device can easily override the safe driving mode to reactivate normal user mode operation such as with a user input to the device e.g. an input to the device power button that quickly overrides and exits the safe driving mode.

A safe driving service can also be implemented to provide safe driving phone reports such as a safe driving report for a teenage driver that is sent to a parent s device for accountability and reporting. The reporting may also be via a cloud based data service that aggregates the data in the cloud and generates a driving report for distribution to designated devices such as to the parent of a teenage driver. A driving report may indicate successful and or safe driving such as a notice of no recorded unsafe use of a phone when driving . Similarly a driving report may indicate unsafe driving or an unlock phone override event in which case the safe driving service can log the next actions or events to determine whether a driving mode violation occurred. A parent of a teenage driver for example can determine unsafe driving habits and behavior in a transparent manner which provides the parent a reporting tool and an opportunity for a safety minded conversation. This approach may be a preferable alternative to completely locking or disabling the teenage driver s phone.

While features and concepts of mobile device safe driving can be implemented in any number of different devices systems environments and or configurations embodiments of mobile device safe driving are described in the context of the following example devices systems and methods.

As a driver of a vehicle the user owner of the mobile device can initiate activation of safe driving mode without having to unlock the device from the device lock screen . As shown in the example the user can swipe the device lock screen with a gesture input to transition the display to a driving mode lock screen which is illustrated at when displayed on the display device. The transition to the driving mode lock screen can be initiated without a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen . In implementations the gesture input may be any type of user and or gesture input in any direction on the integrated display device of the mobile device. Alternatively or in addition any type of device button and or gesture inputs may be utilized effective to transition from the device lock screen to the driving mode lock screen . When a safe driving mode is activated on the mobile device the aspects and features described herein for restricted execution modes e.g. may be utilized to support and implement the safe driving mode as a restricted execution mode.

Embodiments of mobile device safe driving incorporate bi directional communication with a vehicle or can be implemented for no communication with the vehicle. Mobile device safe driving can also be implemented to limit vehicle speed so that a teenage driver cannot exceed a designated speed limit such as in a school zone. Safe driving can also communicate car service reminders to the driver such as to change the oil wiper blades etc. At the time of a crash the phone device can automatically report its status send messages alert emergency services etc. An emergency may be based on crash impact data or based on erratic inputs e.g. due to a diabetic episode heart attack blown tire etc. . For some emergencies the safe driving service can slow the vehicle down such as for a blown tire. For other emergency alert scenarios the safe driving service can initiate a safety timer and or initiate sending a text or other type of message. The safe driving service can initiate the safety timer as a display on the mobile device such as Emergency Detected Sending an Alert in N seconds and start a countdown which provides the user of the device an opportunity to cancel the alert before a message is automatically sent. An emergency and or other possible alert situation may also be based on a vehicle breakdown when the vehicle is pulled over to the side of the road at a detected location that would not typically be a stopping location.

Safe driving features and modes can be implemented for different levels of permissions for family members to loan a car to a friend for valet monitoring etc. The vehicle that is associated with a mobile phone and user can communicate independently of the device such as indirectly through a cloud based service to communicate safe driving mode notifications to a parent and or family members. A safe driving mode notification may alert a driver that he or she is going to be late for an appointment based on the current route of travel and destination. A message can then be generated to inform the driver to re route edit an errand list update GPS etc. For example a driver may be on a list of errands for Mom with mom s car. When mom cancels one of the errands from the shared calendar GPS informs the Kid driver to skip the next errand stop.

Safe driving features and mode implementations can also be utilized to manage a fleet of any type vehicles. As a driver approaches a vehicle the driver s phone is identified to the vehicle and can be paired with the vehicle such as via Bluetooth WiFi or other addressable device. This may be integrated with a key fob location proximate the ignition switch in a vehicle and or setup for different profiles based on the vehicle and phone to checkout a vehicle.

In a safe driving mode a kid s phone can become a communication channel that a parent can open with his or her phone such as to activate the kid s phone to record video and or audio at its current location. This may also be auto activated such as when the kid s phone is in another car that has been detected driving erratically or at excessive speed to send a safe driving mode notification to the parent s phone device. Safe driving features and modes are not limited to the control of a parent over a teenage driver. Any person that wants to drive safer can initiate the safe driving features and modes on his or her device. For example a rental car company can discount a driver if the driver implements safe driving mode while driving a rented car.

Safe driving features and modes can also provide warnings messages and notifications when driving in other countries or regions e.g. regional or country specific safe driving such as notifications of different road rules when driving in different countries. Safe driving features may also be implemented to recognize road and or weather conditions and provide warnings and notifications. Safe driving mode notifications can be filtered and optionally programmed. For events of a certain type an immediate message may be generated such as any one of an SMS MMS or instant message. Alternatively or in addition a daily or weekly driving report can be generated and communicated.

Mobile device safe driving can utilize phone device sensors and features such as to determine if a user is traveling on a train as a passenger or determine bus pass information. A user passenger status may also be determined from audio and or camera images used to determine one s space in car train or other vehicle. Features may also be implemented to determine media access control MAC address ranges to identify proximate conveyances e.g. not just passing cars .

A safe driving application may be implemented in the vehicle for the bulk of the data processing and the phone device is then a client device to the vehicle. Safe driving features can incorporate a theft deterrent in the vehicle application that identifies only those phone devices that when proximate or in the vehicle allow the vehicle to start and be driven. Near field communication NFC tags can be implemented in a vehicle such as in the doors of the vehicle to identify proximate phone devices of associated users in the seats of the vehicle.

Safe driving features reduce and or eliminate the distractions associated with a mobile device while driving. A mobile device such as a mobile phone can be synced with the automobile being driven and based on geo location and or acceleration rates functions of the mobile phone can be disabled or partially disabled e.g. when a safe driving mode is activated . A safe driving implementation may be an application that can not be uninstalled from a mobile device such as when implemented as part of the operating system of a device. Alternatively a safe driving application may be downloaded to a mobile device as an aftermarket first party or third party application. Embodiments of safe driving include any one or combination of implementation features such as described in the following paragraphs.

A safe driving disabled mode is an example of a safe driving feature that can be implemented for a mobile device when a user is operating a vehicle with a wireless beacon device associated with the vehicle e.g. a Bluetooth hands free speaker microphone device . Mobile device safe driving provides that a restrictive disabled mode is turned off or deactivated when a mobile device is in the presence of both a vehicle wireless beacon device and another mobile device owned by an associated parent or guardian. In this manner the solution does not present as a failure to the owner of the device. If the device owner is a teenager and Mom is driving the teenager has normal access to the device capabilities. If the device owner is a teenager and he or she is driving the safe driving mode can be disabled but the solution relies on the presence of Mom to reinforce and or remind the teenager of good driving habits. Safe driving mode implementations can dynamically change behaviors based on who is in the vehicle.

Devices and or device accounts can be associated within a set of devices or device accounts e.g. a family phone account live accounts a connected set of devices etc. and all or a subset of the devices or accounts can communicate with other devices or accounts. Mobile device safe driving can be implemented to restrict access to a phone based on GPS acceleration data distinguished from the physical act of driving with car monitors. Safe driving is not necessarily tied to a particular vehicle and can be related to other contextual information that is not registered by car monitors such as loud music distracting friends in the car or other sources of distraction that range from passive to active behaviors. Safe driving information can be used to counter insurance claims of unsafe driving and rate increases and not just for teenagers but also senior citizens drivers with DUI s etc.

A safe driving mode user interface is implemented from which safe driving mode settings can be enabled and disabled and there may be many levels of disabling device capabilities. For example a safe driving mode can render the device completely disabled or just text messaging is disabled to eliminate texting while driving but not texting while a passenger in the vehicle. A device in safe driving mode can display an indication that a safe driving mode is enabled such as an icon next to the current time day and or the words Safe Driving Mode On on a device home screen or lock screen. Safe driving mode settings can associate one or more vehicles to any user and or number of devices. The safe driving mode settings can all be set remotely from an authoritative phone device such as a parent s mobile phone.

The mobile device includes a safe driving service such as a software application implemented as executable instructions that are stored on computer readable storage media such as any suitable memory device or electronic data storage. Additionally the safe driving service can be executed with a processing system at the mobile device to implement embodiments of mobile device safe driving as described herein. The safe driving service may be implemented as an independent device application that is executable on the device to interface with the many applications features and functions of the device.

The example system also includes a cloud storage and service that can include any type of cloud based e.g. network based data services used to store or maintain driving reports which are an aggregate of safe driving events and unsafe driving events and the reports indicate safe driving and or unsafe driving. A safe driving report can also indicate that the features of a mobile device were enabled by user override while the mobile device was moving in a vehicle.

Any of the devices and services e.g. implemented as server devices described herein can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include a wired and or a wireless network. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by a mobile network operator and or other network operators such as a communication service provider mobile phone provider and or Internet service provider. Alternatively or in addition peer to peer communication techniques may be utilized such as multiple devices connected using a peer to peer communication network.

The safe driving service is implemented to activate a safe driving mode when a user of the device transitions to the driving mode lock screen and the safe driving service disables features of the mobile device while the safe driving mode is activated. Features of the mobile device can include the communication features of the device such as any one or combination of text messaging instant messaging and voice communication as well as the integrated display device which may be temporarily disabled from displaying distracting information.

The safe driving service is implemented to register safe driving events and unsafe driving events associated with use or non use of the mobile device by a user who is currently driving. Generally it is unsafe to use a mobile device in any manner that averts driver attention from looking at the road to looking at the device. In some instances the mobile device may be used in safe manner while driving such as when listening to turn by turn navigation directions or when text messages are converted to audio so that the driver can listen to incoming text messages while maintaining focus on the road. Accordingly a reported safe event can be based on detection that a user is driving a vehicle and a safe driving mode has been activated on his or her mobile device or when the user overrides the safe driving mode to use the device but the vehicle has stopped moving. Reported unsafe events can include a teenage driver using his or her mobile device while driving and when the vehicle is in motion manually overriding the safe driving mode to use the device while the vehicle is moving disabling the safe driving lock screen or any other combination of a user driving and using a mobile device at the same time.

The safe driving service can then aggregate the safe driving events and the unsafe driving events to generate a safe driving report that indicates safe driving and or unsafe driving based on the safe and unsafe driving events. A safe driving report can include a summary of the safe driving events and the unsafe driving events as well as statistical indications of safe driving events to unsafe driving events e.g. an 80 safe driver . The safe driving service can communicate or initiate communication thereof a safe driving report to an associated device of the mobile device.

The mobile device may include a positioning unit such as a Global Positioning System GPS Assisted GPS A GPS or similar geographical positioning unit to determine geographic location data and motion data that indicates the device is moving and possibly the speed or acceleration at which the device is moving such as in a vehicle. The mobile device also includes a driver determination sensor such as an integrated camera that generates a digital image. A vehicle may also include a camera that communicates with the mobile device as a position sensor to indicate the location of a user of the device in the vehicle. A vehicle may also include other features to detect that a user with a device in close proximity is driving the vehicle.

A driver determination sensor may also be implemented as any other type of sensor that indicates whether a user of the device is driving a vehicle or is a passenger in the vehicle. For example a driver determination sensor may be implemented for any type of wireless communication such as near field communication NFC with the vehicle and the safe driving service can determine whether the user of the device is driving the vehicle or is a passenger in the vehicle based on the wireless and or near field communication. Other types of vehicle sensors may detect voice ID or other biometric ID e.g. a fingerprint reader integrated into the steering wheel . Other types of sensors within the vehicle that report back to the device to indicate that the user of the device is driving the vehicle may include seat sensors and heat and or contact sensors integrated into the steering wheel of the vehicle.

The safe driving service is implemented to determine that the mobile device is moving in a vehicle based on the motion data and determine that the user of the device is driving the vehicle based on sensor data from the driver determination sensor such as based on a digital image from the integrated camera based on a digital image from a camera integrated with the vehicle wireless sensor communication and or based on NFC. The safe driving service can then disable features of the device such as the communication features when the mobile device is moving in the vehicle and the user of the device is driving the vehicle e.g. by entering a safe driving mode automatically. As described further herein a user may also voluntarily elect to enter a safe driving mode that disables features of the device without the input of sensors e.g. by inputting an input to a lock screen. The communication features of the device can include any one or combination of text messaging instant messaging and voice communication as well as the integrated display device which may be temporarily disabled from displaying messages and alerts or from turning on. The safe driving service can also determine that the user of the mobile device is a passenger in the vehicle and then determine that safe driving mode should not be entered and or should be exited in order to enable the features of the device.

The safe driving service is also implemented to initiate communication of safe driving notifications to other devices that are associated with the mobile device. For example the mobile device may include an audio sensor to detect an audio level in the vehicle and the safe driving service can generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate that the audio level in the vehicle is a driver distraction. The safe driving notification can then be communicated to associated devices of the device to inform the users of the other devices. Although a safe driving report may be generated based on an aggregate of the safe driving events and the unsafe driving events over time an unsafe driving notification can be reported out immediately. For example although a safe driving report that indicates an audio level distraction in a vehicle two days ago may be useful for discussion with a young driver an unsafe driving notification can be generated during the unsafe distraction in an effort to correct the current unsafe driving condition. The safe driving service can also generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate that the features of the device such as the communication features have been enabled by user override while the device is moving in a vehicle and the user of the device is driving the vehicle. This type of action may be reported as both an unsafe driving event in a subsequent safe driving report and as an immediate safe driving notification such as to a parent of the driver.

The safe driving service can also be implemented to determine that vehicle motion is erratic based on the motion data and then generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate to users of the associated devices that the vehicle motion is erratic. The safe driving service can also determine that at least one of the associated devices is proximate the mobile device in the vehicle determine that the associated device corresponds to an adult user and then enable the features of the mobile device of the driver of the vehicle.

The safe driving service is also implemented to receive speed limit data that corresponds to a location of the vehicle and communicate a vehicle speed limit to the vehicle to control vehicle speed at the location of the vehicle. The safe driving service can also determine that the vehicle has stopped at an unknown location such as beside the road somewhere and determine a location of the vehicle from the location data . The safe driving service can then generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate that the vehicle has stopped at the unknown location at the determined position of the vehicle to inform users of associated devices.

Example methods and are described with reference to respective in accordance with one or more embodiments of mobile device safe driving. Generally any of the services components modules methods and operations described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or any combination thereof. Example methods may be described in the general context of executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media that is local and or remote to a computer processing system and implementations can include software applications programs functions and the like.

At a device lock screen is displayed on an integrated display device of a mobile device. For example the mobile device displays a device lock screen on the integrated display device of the mobile device. At the display is transitioned from the device lock screen to display a driving mode lock screen without a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. For example an input system of the mobile device receives an input such as a gesture input or device selectable control input and the input is effective to transition from displaying the device lock screen to display the driving mode lock screen without a PIN code entered on the device lock screen.

Alternatively or in addition the display of the mobile device may be automatically transitioned from the device lock screen to display a driving mode lock screen without manual user intervention such as if the device determines that the user has begun driving based on detected sensor data such as a seat sensor heat and or contact sensors integrated into the steering wheel or a fingerprint reader integrated into the steering wheel. Driver determination sensor data may also be determined from near field communication NFC within the vehicle that indicates whether the user of the device is driving the vehicle or is a passenger in the vehicle.

At a safe driving mode of the mobile device is activated either in response to user input or automatically as described at . For example the safe driving service at the mobile device activates the safe driving mode of the mobile device. At features of the mobile device are disabled while the safe driving mode is activated. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device disables features of the mobile device while the safe driving mode is activated such as the communication features of the device e.g. to include any one or combination of text messaging instant messaging and voice communication as well as the integrated display of the device which may be temporarily disabled from displaying messages and alerts or from turning on at all.

At safe driving events and unsafe driving events associated with use of the mobile device by a user of the mobile device driving are registered. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device registers the safe driving events and the unsafe driving events associated with use of the mobile device by a user who is determined to be concurrently driving. A safe driving event can include a driver having a safe driving mode activated on his or her mobile device while driving a vehicle or stopping the vehicle before manually overriding the safe driving mode to use the device. Unsafe driving events can include a teenage driver using his or her mobile device while driving and when the vehicle is in motion manually overriding the safe driving mode to use the device while the vehicle is moving disabling the safe driving lock screen or any other combination of a user driving and using a mobile device at the same time.

At the safe driving events and the unsafe driving events are aggregated. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device aggregates the safe driving events and the unsafe driving events. At a safe driving report that indicates safe driving and or unsafe driving is generated. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device generates a safe driving report that indicates safe driving and or unsafe driving. A safe driving report can include a summary of the safe driving events and the unsafe driving events as well as statistical indications of safe driving events to unsafe driving events e.g. an 80 safe driver .

At the safe driving report is communicated to another device that is associated with the mobile device. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device communicates the safe driving report is communicated to an associated device of the mobile device.

At a determination is made that a device is moving in a vehicle based on location data and motion data that indicates the device is moving. For example the positioning unit e.g. a GPS unit and or other type of positioning system component at the mobile device determines that the mobile device is moving in a vehicle based on geographic location data and motion data that indicates the device is moving.

At a determination is made as to whether a user of the device is driving the vehicle e.g. based on sensor data from a driver determination sensor. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device determines whether a user of the device is driving the vehicle based on sensor data from a driver determination sensor. If the user of the device is a passenger in the vehicle i.e. no from then at a safe driving mode on the mobile device is deactivated the features of the device are enabled. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device enables the features of the device such as the communication features and or the integrated display responsive to the determination that the user of the device is a passenger in the vehicle.

If the user of the device is driving the vehicle i.e. yes from then at the safe driving mode is activated which disables distracting features of the mobile device. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device activates the safe driving mode which disables distracting features of the device e.g. communication features that include text messaging instant messaging and voice communication responsive to the determinations that the device is moving in the vehicle at and the user of the device is driving the vehicle at . In implementations some features of the device can be disabled while others remain enabled. For example text messaging may be disabled while hands free calls to or from designated numbers remains enabled as well as a feature of the device that converts a text message to audio so that a driver can focus on driving while listening to incoming text messages.

At a user interface is displayed on an integrated display of the device to indicate a safe driving mode of the device has been activated. For example the mobile device includes the integrated display device on which a safe driving lock screen is displayed to indicate a safe driving mode of the device has been activated.

At an unsafe driving notification of an unsafe driving event is generated to indicate an unsafe driving condition. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device generates an unsafe driving notification to indicate that an unsafe driving condition currently exists in a vehicle or having to do with a vehicle . For example unlike a safe driving report that may be generated based on an aggregate of the safe driving events and the unsafe driving events over time an unsafe driving notification can be reported out immediately such as during the unsafe distraction in a vehicle in an effort to correct the current unsafe driving condition. The safe driving service can also generate an unsafe driving notification to indicate that the features of the device such as the communication features have been enabled by user override while the device is moving in a vehicle and the user of the device is driving the vehicle.

At the unsafe driving notification is communicated to one or more other devices that are associated with the mobile device. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device initiates communication of the unsafe driving notification to the other devices that are associated with the mobile device. At a determination is made that at least one of the other devices is proximate the device in the vehicle. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device determines that at least one of the other devices that is associated with the mobile device is proximate the mobile device in the vehicle.

At a determination is made that the other device corresponds to an adult user or other supervisory user. For example the safe driving service at the mobile device determines that the other device that is associated with the mobile device and proximate the mobile device in the vehicle corresponds to an adult user or other supervisory user. Responsive to the determinations that the other associated device is proximate the mobile device in the vehicle at and corresponds to an adult user at the safe driving service deactivates the safe driving mode on the device and enables the features of the mobile device at .

In embodiments the central computing device may be a cloud of one or more server computers that are connected to the multiple devices through a network the Internet or other data communication link. In embodiments this interconnection architecture enables functionality across multiple devices to provide a networked service environment of the multiple devices. Each of the devices may have different physical configurations and capabilities and the central computing device can utilize a platform to maintain associated devices identifiers and implement the coordination architecture and or the safe driving service in embodiments of mobile device safe driving.

The cloud includes and or is representative of the platform for the networked service components e.g. the safe driving service that implements embodiments of mobile device safe driving. The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware such as server devices and or software resources of the cloud. The networked service components may include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the mobile devices and .

In embodiments the safe driving service at the platform is implemented to receive an unsafe driving notification from a mobile device when an unsafe driving notification is initiated from the device. The safe driving service can then determine associated devices of the device based on the associated devices identifiers and communicate the unsafe driving notification received from the device to the other device and to any other associated devices . Additionally the safe driving service can communicate the safe driving notification to the other devices in multiple formats such as a text message an instant message an audible message as a hub message or as an image for display at the associated devices. The safe driving service at the platform can also receive safe driving events and unsafe driving events from the mobile devices and aggregate the driving events to generate a safe driving report that is communicated out to the associated devices. The safe driving service at the platform can also implement any of the embodiments and features of mobile device safe driving as described herein.

At an unsafe driving notification is received from a mobile device that is moving in a vehicle when a user of the device is driving the vehicle. For example the safe driving service implemented as part of the platform receives an unsafe driving notification from the mobile device that is moving in a vehicle when a user of the device is driving the vehicle. The unsafe driving notification indicates a driving condition of the vehicle and the unsafe driving notification can be communicated to associated devices of the device to inform users of the associated devices. Similar to the safe driving service implemented at the mobile device the safe driving service implemented as part of the platform also receives safe driving events and unsafe driving events from the mobile devices.

At other devices that are associated with the mobile device are determined based on identifiers of the mobile device and the other associated devices. For example the safe driving service at the platform determines the associated devices such as mobile device based on the associated devices identifiers . At the unsafe driving notification received from the mobile device is communicated to the other devices that are associated with the mobile device. For example the safe driving service at the platform initiates communication of the safe driving notification that is received from the mobile device to the associated device .

At a vehicle notification is received from the vehicle. For example the safe driving service at the platform receives a vehicle notification from the vehicle rather than from the mobile device that the mobile device is moving in when a user of the device is driving the vehicle. A mobile device that is traveling in a vehicle can be paired with the vehicle and the vehicle itself can take on the role of a safe driving service to register and communicate safe driving events unsafe driving events and unsafe driving notifications. At the vehicle notification received from the vehicle is communicated to the other devices that are associated with the mobile device. For example the safe driving service at the platform initiates communication of the vehicle notification that is received from the vehicle to the associated device .

At location data is received that indicates a location of the vehicle. For example the safe driving service at the platform receives location data such as from a GPS system that indicates a location of the vehicle that the mobile device is moving in when a user of the device is driving the vehicle. At speed limit data that corresponds to the location of the vehicle is received. For example the safe driving service at the platform receives speed limit data that corresponds to the location of the vehicle as determined from the location data at . At a vehicle speed limit is communicated to the vehicle to control vehicle speed at the location of the vehicle. For example the safe driving service at the platform communicates a vehicle speed limit to the vehicle to control vehicle speed at the location of the vehicle that the device is moving in when a user of the device is driving the vehicle.

The example mobile device includes an integrated display device on which user interfaces can be displayed such as a device lock screen that indicates the device is locked at . For example a user owner of the mobile device may set up the device to lock when not in use so that someone else cannot access the full functionality of applications such as email and text and or have access to the Internet via a browser application without providing authentication credentials such as a personal identification number PIN login or other authentication credential.

The user owner of the mobile device can allow another person to use the phone and hand the phone over without having to unlock the device from the device lock screen by entering a PIN or other credential. As shown in the example a person that has borrowed the phone can swipe the device lock screen with a gesture input to access a shared space user interface which is illustrated at when displayed on the display device and which provides access to a limited subset of application functionality. The borrower does not enter a PIN or other credential to access the shared space user interface. In implementations the gesture input may be any type of user and or gesture input in any direction on the integrated display device of the mobile device. Alternatively or in addition any type of device button and or gesture inputs may be utilized effective to transition from the device lock screen to the shared space user interface .

Restricted execution modes enable implementation of a shared space on a device where a user owner can include device applications that a guest or child can access without requiring a password and the device applications will be programmatically prevented from being able to access other private device content on the device.

There may be situations when a user owner of a device may want to have access to some content or applications on their mobile phone without unlocking the phone with a PIN code or other authentication credential. Restricted execution modes enable the user owner to make some experiences available without password access and without compromising the security of sensitive personal or corporate data. In implementations restricted execution modes allow applications to run but restricts access to sensitive data or experiences using several mechanisms such as security capabilities blocked navigation and application origin. If an application has a particular security capability a runtime check is made centrally when the application attempts to access a protected resource and if the application is running in a restricted execution zone an error is returned that can be handled by the application. When a device is running in a restricted execution mode a device application may be referred to as running in a restricted execution zone .

For the blocked navigation security capability applications often take advantage of built in tasks to complete user actions like sending an email making a phone call etc. When the restricted execution mode is activated on a device the origination of a device application task at run time is what is considered to determine whether the device application and more specifically whether the task will be allowed. An application task which is generally synonymous to an application programming interface or API call may include aspects of a data access API call but it also includes a request to initiate a particular action or actions different than data access and the task request may incorporate metadata associated with the action of the requested task. The level of functionality is provided on a task by task basis to determine whether the action or actions of a requested task will be available in the restricted execution mode during run time origination of a task request. A device application can be executed by the device but only some functions of the device application will execute when the restricted execution mode is activated on the device.

Examples of restricting the functionality of a device application may include not permitting the device application to be launched altogether or limiting the device application to calling only a restricted subset of API calls that is narrower than the normal set of API calls available to the application when the mobile device is running in normal user mode. Restricting access to device content also may include disallowing certain API calls that provide access to particular sets of data or content. In many examples restricting functionality or access does not include analyzing or changing Access Control Lists ACLs Access Control Entries ACEs or similar file system access control metadata maintained by a file system. For example a device application can be restricted from access to device content while a restricted execution mode is activated on a device.

When running in a restricted execution zone all application requested navigations are screened and only those allowed by the system can continue. Others fail in a backwards compatible way so that legacy applications do not need to be updated to run in the restricted execution zone. For the application origin security capability only applications that originate and or have been downloaded from a first party provider can run e.g. execute in a restricted execution mode. This ensures that applications which have not been security checked and may access sensitive and or private data on a device do not run without the user unlocking the device first.

The mobile device includes a restricted execution service that can be implemented as a software application e.g. executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media such as any suitable memory device or electronic data storage. Additionally the restricted execution service can be executed with a processing system at the mobile device to implement embodiments of restricted execution modes as described herein. The restricted execution service may be implemented as an independent device application that is executable on the device to interface with the many applications features and functions of the device.

The example system may also include a cloud storage and service that can include any type of cloud based e.g. network based data services used to store or maintain accessible data e.g. data accessible by device applications on the mobile device . Any of the devices and services e.g. implemented as server devices described herein can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include a wired and or a wireless network. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by a mobile network operator and or other network operators such as a communication service provider mobile phone provider and or Internet service provider. Alternatively or in addition peer to peer communication techniques may be utilized such as multiple devices connected using a peer to peer communication network.

The restricted execution service is implemented to manage a restricted execution mode of a shared space such as to limit and or restrict device applications and shared device applications that are included in the shared space that is accessible without a PIN or authentication credential. The device applications can include any type of software applications and the functions and features thereof that run on the device such as for user interaction with messaging gaming media playback document viewing and communication applications. The device applications may also include system level components that users of a device generally do not access or utilize but that typically run in the background while the device is operational. The shared device applications can include any subset of the device applications and are designated as a shared device application when included in the shared space for limited and or restricted functionality when a restricted execution mode is activated on the device.

A user owner of the mobile device can choose the device applications and features and or device content that can be included in the shared space and accessed by a child or guest while the restricted execution mode is activated. Further a device application may be allowed a restricted level of functionality while running in the shared space i.e. the application may be executed yet generally cannot access device content that is restricted from access such as contacts email and calendar databases as well as limited access to the device file system.

The content databases device file system Internet access and other device content and features can be protected from device application access when the restricted execution mode is activated. For example a device application that can access the Internet email contacts etc. when a device is unlocked and operating in a normal user mode will be automatically restricted when the restricted execution mode is activated such as if the device application has been added to the shared space and is allowed limited functionality in the shared space. As an example a digital camera application that has been added to the shared space may allow a user to take and view new photos but previous photos will be restricted from viewing the restricted execution mode is activated on the device.

The shared space user interface of the shared space is customizable by the user owner of the device. For example the user owner can add applications such as games and music applications to the shared space so that the applications are recognized and can be launched in the shared space perhaps with limited functionality. However applications that are not recognized in the shared space cannot be launched in the shared space. For example if a game application that is pinned or recognized in the shared space attempts to itself launch a browser application e.g. as part of the game s execution the restricted execution service will check if the browser application is pinned and recognized in the shared space. If the browser application is not recognized in the shared space then the restricted execution service will fail to launch the application or if the browser application is recognized then the browser application can be launched in the shared space by the game application.

As described with reference to an input can be received such as a gesture input or device selectable control input and the restricted execution service initiates a transition from displaying the device lock screen to display the shared space user interface of the shared space without receiving a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. The restricted execution service is implemented to manage the shared space when the restricted execution mode is activated. The restricted execution service can activate the restricted execution mode of the mobile device and restrict access of a device application to the device content to a file system of the mobile device and or to limit the application to a limited set of functionality or tasks while the restricted execution mode is activated.

The shared space can include a shared device application and the restricted execution service can allow the shared device application access to the device content while the restricted execution mode is activated. The restricted execution service can determine whether a device application is implemented or designed so that a user can designate to allow the device application access to the device content if the device application is included in the shared space as a shared device application. Alternatively a device application may be designed as not to be allowed access to the device content even if the device application is included in the shared space. Additionally this type of a device application may also be implemented as not even being eligible for user designation to be included in the shared space.

In restricted modes a configuration of a device application may be designed or programmed to indicate whether the device application is ever to be allowed to run e.g. execute in a restricted mode irrespective of user choice. For example a confidential corporate application or another application downloaded from a third party application store that may access private corporate data can be configured to never be allowed to run e.g. execute in any restricted mode even if a user would like it to do so. A configuration of some device applications may be user controlled to indicate whether the device application is to be allowed to run in a particular restricted mode such as allowing a subset of games or applications in a kid zone restricted mode or allowing a subset of camera lens applications to run when the phone is locked.

The restricted execution service can also be implemented to validate whether or not a given device application can be navigated to regardless of the reason for the navigation request taking into account the current restricted mode and the target application s system and user configuration. Additionally a separate navigation stack can be maintained for a normal mode user experience and for the current restricted execution mode. The restricted execution service is also implemented to allow or disallow migration of applications from the normal mode stack to the restricted mode stack or vice versa based on scenario needs and to determine when to close applications on each stack based on available resources and transitions into and out of a restricted mode.

A device application may initiate a task call to a shared device application with a request for the device content and the restricted execution service can restrict the device application access to the device content via the shared device application while the restricted execution mode is activated. The device application may also initiate a task call to the operating system to request device content access and the restricted execution service can restrict the access to the device content based on one or more device application tasks being designated as restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated.

Alternatively the device application can initiate a task call to the shared device application with a request for the device content and the request includes a request token that indicates the device application is permitted to access the device content via the shared device application in the shared space . The restricted execution service can then allow the device application access to the device content via the shared device application based on the request token while the restricted execution mode is activated. The restricted execution service can also deactivate the restricted execution mode responsive to a PIN code or authentication credential entered on the device lock screen and return to a normal user mode of the mobile device in which the device application has unrestricted access to the device content .

The restricted execution service implements a mechanism to indicate in which restricted modes a device application can run e.g. execute based on a task information field of a device application task. The task information field indicates whether a specific task can be allowed to execute in a shared space when the restricted execution mode is activated. This new field will be a bit mask which a navigation server will use to compare to the navigation filter mask that MobileUI will give to it when a restricted mode is entered. These are marked per task instead of by application because some first party device applications have tasks that can be allowed to function in a child share space e.g. Kid s Corner but not all of the application functionality is allowed while a restricted execution mode is activated on a device. If a device application is allowed to run in a shared space the restricted execution service can trace an API task call through the application layer from an originator e.g. device application that initiates the task call based on a token that is passed along to a core system component that would not otherwise be able to determine whether the task call was originated from a device application running in the shared space. The token can be utilized to determine if the task call is protected from a restricted execution mode.

At a device lock screen is displayed on an integrated display device of a mobile device. For example the mobile device displays a device lock screen on the integrated display device of the mobile device. At the display is transitioned from the device lock screen to display a shared space user interface of a shared space without a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. For example an input system of the mobile device receives an input such as a gesture input or device selectable control input and the input is effective to transition from displaying the device lock screen to display the shared space user interface of a shared space without a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen.

At a restricted execution mode of the mobile device is activated. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device activates the restricted execution mode of the mobile device in response to entering the shared space. At access of a device application to device content is restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device restricts access of a device application to the device content while the restricted execution mode is activated.

At the restricted execution mode is deactivated responsive to a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device deactivates the restricted execution mode responsive to a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. At the device returns to a user mode of the mobile device in which the device application has unrestricted access to the device content. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device returns to a user mode of the mobile device in which the device application has unrestricted access to the device content .

At a shared device application that is included in the shared space is allowed access to the device content while the restricted execution mode is activated. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device allows access to the device content to a shared device application that is included in the shared space while the restricted execution mode is activated.

At the device application that requests access to the device content via the shared device application is restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated on the device. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device restricts a device application task call to the shared device application with a request to access the device content while the restricted execution mode is activated on the device.

At the device application is allowed access to the device content via the shared device application while the restricted execution mode is activated based on a request token that the device application includes in a task call to the shared device application for the device content. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device allows access to the device content by the device application via the shared device application while the restricted execution mode is activated based on a request token that the device application includes in a task call to the shared device application for the device content. The request token indicates that the device application is permitted to access the device content via the shared device application in the shared space.

At access to the device content is restricted based on device application tasks being designated as restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated where the device application initiates a task call to access the device content. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device restricts access to the device content based on device application tasks being designated as restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated where a device application initiates task calls to access the device content.

At the device application is restricted from a file system of the mobile device while the restricted execution mode is activated. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device restricts a device application from a file system of the mobile device while the restricted execution mode is activated.

At the device application is determined as user designated to allow the device application access to the device content in a restricted execution mode if the device application is included in the shared space as a shared device application. Alternatively at the device application is determined as designed as not to be allowed access to the device content even if the device application is included in the shared space. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device can determine whether a device application user designated to allow the device application access to the device content in a restricted execution mode if the device application is included in the shared space as a shared device application. The restricted execution service may also determine that a device application is designed e.g. programmed as not to be allowed access to the device content even if the device application is included in the shared space. Additionally this type of a programmed device application may also be implemented as not even being eligible for user designation to be included in the shared space.

Although described herein as a single restricted execution mode in some examples a device provides multiple restricted execution modes such as a first restricted execution mode associated with a child shared space for facilitating sharing a mobile device with a child and a second restricted execution mode associated with a safe driving shared space for facilitating safer driving by a user of a mobile device. These various restricted execution modes may each impose a different set of limitations on the functionality of the device. For example the child related execution mode might block access to email data changes to device settings or in app purchases while the second driving safety restricted execution zone might block graphical user interfaces that could distract a driver from the road.

From the lock screen displayed on a device without entering a PIN or other authentication credentials a user may be able to reach different shared spaces each of which has a different restricted execution mode associated with it. For example from the lock screen a user might enter a first gesture e.g. a left swipe to reach a first shared space having a first restricted execution mode and a second different gesture e.g. a right swipe to reach a second different shared space having a second restricted execution mode. In some examples a shared space associated with a restricted execution mode may be accessed from different entry points than receiving an input e.g. a gesture input on the lock screen.

The mobile device includes an integrated display device on which user interfaces can be displayed such as a hub user interface of a hub application . The hub user interface offers a unified interactive view of the hub data for a single private interaction hub and the hub application aggregates disparate types of the hub data originating from the various member users of the private interaction hub. For example the hub user interface may provide a single unified access point to shared hub messages status updates check ins hub calendar events hub media hub applications and other types of hub content. As described above a private interaction hub or simply hub is a private network or association of member users who voluntarily elect to privately interact and collaborate with each other in a bi directional manner. The hub data includes any shared data or metadata that is used to facilitate the interaction and collaboration between the members of a private interaction hub and may include shared data for messaging notes contact management documents tasks location updates photos calendar events applications to include collaborative gaming applications and or other media content such as any type of audio music video and or image data that may be available or accessed from any source.

The basic functionality of an example private interaction hub is shown as a golf hub displayed in the hub user interface of the hub application . For example the hub user interface can include various selectable user interface tiles such as a members tile that is selectable to initiate a display of the constituent members of the private interaction hub. The user interface tiles may also include hub chat and or messages tiles to allow a hub member to participate in shared messaging threads with the other member users of the hub. For example as shown the member Bob has asked Anyone up for a round right now The user interface tiles may also include a photo album tile that is selectable to view photos shared by any of the hub members with the hub and a shared notebook tile from which the hub members can view shared notes. For example the golf hub may include a shared notes document that compiles the hub members collective research of new golf equipment. The hub user interface may also display a shared calendar that allows a member of the hub to view edit and post calendar events that will be shared with all of the other hub members. For example the calendar tile shows an upcoming tee time at St. Andrews on Saturday at 9 00 a.m. for all of the members. When a user selects a group item e.g. the message from Bob or tile e.g. the messaging tile further details about the selected item or group items related to the selected tile may be displayed by the hub application itself or the hub application may call e.g. a task call a different device application e.g. a messaging application to display further details about the item s .

When a user selects or otherwise engages with a piece of displayed hub data such as the golf message from Bob the hub application may provide additional details or options to the user to permit the user to interact further with the hub data. For example the hub application may display controls to allow the user to edit or reply to Bob s message. Alternatively or in addition when a user selects or otherwise engages with a piece of displayed hub data e.g. Bob s message the hub application may launch or call e.g. a task call another device application to permit the user to further interact with the piece of hub data e.g. the hub application may call a native messaging application .

The hub user interface of the hub application can also include user selectable access to third party applications such as when an application is pinned to or otherwise shared with a private interaction hub. A pinned third party application may also utilize the shared hub data such as shared application preferences or shared application state data. For example the golf hub shown displayed in the hub user interface includes a live tile representing a third party weather application that the members of the hub can quickly access to check the weather forecast at their local golf club such as when planning an upcoming golf outing. A user of the mobile device can also customize display aspects of a hub user interface such as the content of the user interface and how the elements of the hub user interface are arranged. Another example of a hub user interface of the hub application is a panoramic hub user interface such as for a family centric private interaction hub as shown and described in greater detail with reference to .

The example system also includes a hub management service and a cloud storage and service . The hub management service manages the formation and maintenance of private interaction hubs . The hub management service can correlate or associate member users of a hub by associating account identifiers of the members with one or more of the private interaction hubs. The account identifier of a member user may be associated with an identifier of a private interaction hub in a data table that the hub management service maintains to correlate the hub members with one or more of the private interaction hubs. The hub management service may also associate devices that correspond to hub members based on device identifiers. The account identifiers can include user membership identifiers and or sign on credentials such as an email and password combination or a username and password combination. The sign on credentials may be single sign on SSO credentials that are utilized for authentication purposes at a number of Web services including the cloud storage and service .

The cloud storage and service can include any type of cloud based e.g. network based data and messaging services . The messaging services may include any type of email text e.g. SMS MMS and or instant messaging services. The data services may include any type of calendar photo album file or document sharing location mapping music sharing video sharing gaming contacts management and or notebook services as well as any other type of services that can be used to share stored hub data . The stored hub data can include any form of messages updates events content media and information that is maintained for the private interaction hubs and is accessible from the mobile device either upon a request from a device and or upon a data push to the device. The cloud storage and service also maintains stored hub metadata that includes settings and information pertaining to the private interaction hubs such as the name of a hub the background image or photo of the hub and an association of the hub members.

Although shown together as data and messaging services various application data services and various messaging services may be operated on separate devices and or operated by separate distinct entities. Additionally although the hub management service and the cloud storage and service are shown as independent services they may be implemented together as a single service. Further a server device or group of server devices can include implementations of both the hub management service and the cloud storage and service representative of a single entity that may be the same server system company system domain and the like.

The cloud storage and service and its constituent data and messaging services interchange the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata between the mobile devices that are associated with member users of a private interaction hub . For example a data and or messaging service of the cloud storage and service can receive a copy of hub data and or hub metadata from the mobile device that is used by a hub member store this hub data and hub metadata in the cloud storage as the respective stored hub data and stored hub metadata and then distribute the stored hub data and stored hub metadata to other mobile devices associated with other member users of the same private interaction hub as well as to other mobile devices associated with the same hub member. The stored hub metadata can include membership information pertaining to the member users of a private interaction hub hub identifiers that correlate a piece of hub data to a particular private interaction hub user identifiers that correlate a piece of hub data to a particular member user modification dates and or other metadata.

The cloud storage and service and its constituent data and messaging services may utilize single sign on SSO credentials for authentication purposes to limit the dissemination of the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata to only the authorized devices of hub members. Additionally any of the devices and services e.g. implemented as server devices described herein can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include a wired and or a wireless network. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by a mobile network operator and or other network operators such as a communication service provider mobile phone provider and or Internet service provider.

The mobile device includes an operating system of the device and the operating system includes a hub operating system service that is implemented to integrate cloud based services a hub application and local device applications with the operating system to implement aspects of the private interaction hubs . The aspects that may be implemented include hub formation and membership maintenance synchronizing the hub data on the mobile device with the stored hub data and the hub metadata with the stored hub metadata with the cloud storage and service and providing the hub application and the local device applications on the mobile device with access to the hub data and the hub metadata . For example the hub operating system service may directly access the stored hub metadata at the cloud storage and service .

The hub operating system service or alternatively the hub application may also determine and maintain a local copy of the membership associations of member users account identifiers and identifiers of the private interaction hubs. The hub operating system service may also synchronize the stored hub data from the cloud storage and service with the hub data at the mobile device and synchronize the stored hub metadata from the cloud storage and service with the hub metadata at the mobile device. The hub operating system service may also synchronize with the cloud storage and service e.g. by sending changes or additions to hub data and hub metadata to the cloud storage and service . Such data synchronizations may occur in response to a user launching the hub application.

The mobile device includes the device applications that permit a user of the mobile device to access create and or modify the hub data private data of the user as well as the stored hub data that is managed by any of the data and messaging services at the cloud storage and service . Some or all of the device applications may be implemented as client side components or modules of any of the data and messaging services or may be implemented as standalone native applications e.g. local device applications at the mobile device. The device applications typically each consume and provide access to only a portion or subset of the hub data and the private data such as only a single type of hub data and private data e.g. only messaging data but not calendar data . The device applications also typically present the consumed hub data to a user in conjunction with the private data . Private data is data or metadata that is not associated with a private interaction hub and that has not been shared with other members of the hub e.g. data that has not been shared via the cloud storage and service .

The device applications at the mobile device may include a native or third party messaging application that provides a user with messaging alerts and access to messaging threads. The messaging application provides access to both shared message threads shared with a private interaction hub and private message threads between a user of the mobile device and others who are not members of the hub. The messaging application also allows a user to send a message to all of the hub members without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The messaging application may not provide user access to other types of the hub data other than the hub messages. For example the messaging application may not provide access to the shared calendar events or shared photo albums of the hub.

The device applications may also include a native or third party calendaring application that provides scheduling alerts and access to a visual calendar. The calendaring application provides user access to both shared calendar events that are shared with hub members and private calendar events e.g. Exchange calendar events that have not been shared with other members of the hub. The calendaring application also allows a user to create and or share a calendar event to all members of the hub without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The application may not provide user access to other types of the hub data other than the hub calendar events. For example the calendaring application may not provide access to the shared message threads or shared photo albums of the hub.

The device applications may also include a native or third party media viewing and or editing application that provides access to photo albums of digital photos or other digital media. The media application provides user access to both shared media files e.g. photos videos and or music shared with a private interaction hub and private media files that have not been shared with other members of the hub. The media application also allows a user to share media files with all members of the hub without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The media application may not provide user access to other types of hub data other than hub media files. For example the media application may not provide access to the shared message threads or shared calendar events of the hub.

The hub operating system service can expose one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs application binary interfaces and or other types of interfaces to the hub application and to the device applications on the mobile device to allow these applications to access generate and or modify the hub data and or the hub metadata as described herein. The hub operating system service can be implemented as an integrated software component or module of the operating system . The hub operating system service can be maintained at the mobile device as executable instructions that are stored on computer readable storage media such as any suitable memory device or electronic data storage as described with reference to the example device shown in . Additionally the hub operating system service can be executed with a processing system at the mobile device to implement aspects of private interaction hubs.

In embodiments the hub operating system service can initiate the hub management service to provision a private interaction hub . A user of the mobile device can start a private interaction hub and also invite others to join an existing private interaction hub. For example the hub user interface of the hub application may provide an existing hub member with the option to add a new member to the hub and the user may identify the prospective member by providing either a mobile device number or by selecting an existing contact from one of their social networks or other contacts.

The hub operating system service can receive the request from an existing member user of the device and in response the hub operating system service and or the hub management service communicates an invitation to join the hub as an SMS MMS or instant message sent to the prospective member s mobile device that may include a link to a registration site or other registration instructions. The hub operating system service and or the hub management service receives e.g. via a registration website an acceptance to the invitation to join the private interaction hub that includes at least an account identifier such as an SSO credential and associates the new member with the existing hub at the hub management service . Updated membership information including the new member s account identifier may also be propagated to other mobile devices of other members in the private interaction hub from the hub management service . When the new member user joins the hub he or she may be prompted to download and or install various applications configured to provide access to the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata such as the hub application and or the any of the device applications . The hub application may also be the entry point by which a user creates a new hub and or modifies the membership of an existing hub.

A private interaction hub can be provisioned for any association of people such as family members coworkers friends neighbors and any other people that may be associated together in a hub. Additionally a member user of one private interaction hub may also be a member of multiple hubs which can be based on a single member sign on that identifies the member to the hub operating system service and or to the hub management service . For example a person may be a member of a family hub that associates members of the person s family as well as a member of a neighborhood hub that associates members of the person s neighborhood and a golf hub that associates the person s friends that often golf together.

The integration of the hub application with the operating system of the mobile device provides that a user of the device can view a message or update on the hub user interface and in an application user interface of an application that is associated with the message or the update. For example a hub calendar is integrated with the calendar application e.g. a device application on the mobile device and a calendar update that is displayed in the hub user interface can be selected by the user to initiate the update being displayed in a calendar user interface of the calendar application. Alternatively the user may view the calendar user interface and select a calendar event that is associated with a private interaction hub to initiate a display of the hub calendar which includes the calendar event for the members of the hub. As another example a hub calendar event can be displayed in a hub user interface and the device calendar application can access and display the hub calendar event along with any private data calendar events that only the user of the device has access to view in a user interface of the device calendar application. The hub application and the device application both acquire the same hub calendar event data e.g. the same hub data stored on the mobile device . The two different user interfaces e.g. a hub user interface and a device application user interface display the same calendar event data.

In another example the hub messages and chat features are integrated with messaging applications e.g. the device applications on the mobile device and an email text or instant message that is displayed in the hub user interface can be selected by the user of the mobile device to initiate the message being displayed in a messaging application user interface. Alternatively the user may view a recent message from a member of a private interaction hub in a messaging application user interface and select the message to initiate a display of the hub messages interface such as to view the discussion thread associated with the recent message.

In embodiments the hub operating system service at the mobile device can receive social network updates for the member users of a private interaction hub such as when two or more of the members of a hub are also friends on a public social network site such as e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER or LINKEDIN . The social network updates can be pulled from a social network site based on the established association of the account identifiers of the hub members of a private interaction hub at the hub management service . The hub operating system service can then aggregate the social network updates for a particular hub for display in the hub user interface or on a homepage live tile associated with the hub. The hub operating system service at the mobile device can also be implemented to coordinate multi user interactive updates to an event that is managed in a private interaction hub. For example several members of a hub may participate in a multi player interactive game and each successive interactive update from a member of the hub is initiated by the member at a respective associated mobile device.

The example system includes a device association service that associates or correlates the client devices by device identifiers user identifiers and or by any other type of identifiable association. Any of the devices and services can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include wired and or wireless networks. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by mobile operators such as a communication service provider cell phone provider and or Internet service provider. A mobile operator can facilitate mobile data and or voice communication for any type of a wireless device or mobile phone.

The client devices can each be associated with a different user and the users are defined members of a family . The example client device is representative of the various client devices in the family. Any of the client devices in the family can include services such as software applications e.g. computer executable instructions that can be executed by a processor or processor system to implement the embodiments described herein. In this example the client device includes a family coordination architecture that implements features of a family hub a parental control service that implements features of a parent dashboard a family check in service a device quiet service that implements features of quiet time and quiet zone a safe driving service and a device sharing service . The client device services are further described with reference to .

Additionally any one or combination of the various client device services may be abstracted for implementation by a network service provider such as the device association service . For example the client devices that are associated in the family can be interconnected through a central computing device or system e.g. may be one of the client devices which may be local to the multiple devices or may be located remotely from the devices. In embodiments the central computing device may be a cloud service of one or more server computers that are connected to the multiple devices via the network or other communication link. The interconnection architecture enables functionality across multiple devices to provide a common and seamless experience to a user of the multiple devices. Each of the client devices may have different physical configurations and capabilities and the central computing device implements a platform to enable delivery of an experience that is both tailored to a particular device and yet common to all of the devices.

In this example of the client device services the family coordination architecture includes a family hub manager that implements coordinates and or manages various family features such as family calendar family chat family shared contacts family journal and memories tasks and chores family keys and family budget . The parental control service implements features such as a parent dashboard manager age appropriate content control and safe social networking . The device quiet service implements features such as quiet time and quiet zone . The various client device services and features are further described throughout the document.

Any of the client device services can include be integrated with or implement any of the other client device services and applications. For example the family coordination architecture can include any one or combination of the parental control service the family check in service the device quiet service the safe driving service and the device sharing service . In embodiments the family coordination architecture may be implemented for the coordination of time messaging data activities and any other shared services. The shared services may be any of the client device services and or any type of shared services that may be associated with a service and or multi system operator MSO devices. Further the parental control service can be implemented to throttle expand manage and or reallocate data sharing of the client device services.

Any of the family features and or applications of the family coordination architecture can be implemented as private some private and some public or private with optional user control to share information and data with public third party services and applications. Similarly any of the client device services and applications described herein may be private public sharable user controllable and or any combination thereof. In embodiments the family coordination architecture and or the family hub manager can be implemented as an overall managing architecture a collective embodiment of and or integration of any of the client device services and or applications that may be implemented for expandability and instantiated together as the family coordination and or the family hub architecture. Further any of the client device services can include be integrated with or implement any of the other client device services and applications and collectively may be embodied as a family hub and or coordination architecture or service.

The hub is a central space for membership orientated coordination of communications activities information and integration. Designated member relationships can be utilized to define how the data and information is managed and can be implemented to leverage the social contract such as between members of a defined familial group in the illustrated example. In one or more implementations the hub is implemented as a user interface e.g. via a client device application for integration and aggregation of the membership orientated communications activities and information. A hub can be implemented as a private shared space between defined members. The hub contains links to other members profiles and based on restriction settings allows aggregation for visibility of some of other members data and information within the hub. The hub shares a group calendar which can be viewed and edited a common text message window a posting board a shared photo album a check in feature and any other type of shared information.

Devices and or device accounts can be associated within a set of devices or device accounts e.g. a family phone account user accounts a connected set of devices and so on and all or a subset of the devices or accounts can communicate with other devices or accounts. The members of a hub can be defined by any number of different classes of people such as Junior Teen Mom Dad or Parent Grandparent Nanny Life Coach and so on for the illustrated example of a family. Further the members of a family can be defined to distinguish a live in Nanny from a Babysitter for example.

Additionally membership of the hub as well as use of the hub by the members can be controlled by a select collection of users such as one or two mobile phones by the associated users of the client devices. For example one of the members in the hub can be the designated control person such as Mom who runs the household employer and so on.

From a single configuration of the members the hub can be provisioned setup and propagated out e.g. automatically. The features and configuration of a hub may default to an automatic easy setup but any rule feature or configuration aspect can be readily modified by a user. Provisioning a hub may be based on billing e.g. a family or corporate billing plan. However if a phone device is changed to a different carrier for example the phone device can still receive texts related to the hub. Alternatively or in addition provisioning a hub can be based on email addresses phone numbers user account identifiers or any other identifier.

A retail person selling a new phone package for instance can easily identify the members each to their new phone devices and initiate the hub being instantiated. From a consumer perspective it just works and members can walk out of the store all set up. All of the data and information can be shared with a single selection and thus the members do not have to share each item e.g. a grocery list photos calendar etc. individually and separately.

The hub user interface may act as a shared space that is customizable and provides for user generated and shared content. Some information can be shared while other information is not. For example Mom s complete Christmas list is not viewable by the other family members but Dad and Kids can add to the list and only view their contribution . Hub setup may be performed a la carte meaning only the features that members want displayed on the hub wall can be selected. For example Mom wants to see the shopping list whereas Dad does not shop and so wants to avoid having the list displayed on his device yet he could still access the shopping list to add items when desired.

The hub user interface integrates functions calendar functionality event and or data summaries i.e. on the wall as well as content that is shared between the members of the hub e.g. lists documents etc. . For example the hub user interface may include a family check in or check in option. The hub user interface may also include a chat section where location check ins messaged are displayed along with other messages interchanged between the members of the hub. The hub wall is representative of an area via which members of the group may add to as desired like a lunchroom bulletin board family refrigerator and so on. In implementations the information can be aggregated in pillars or columns and shown on the hub wall as illustrated. The hub wall can also represent an interrelation between any of the information and data that appears on the wall and its placement in time. The hub settings provide that a user can control which functions are integrated and displayed within the hub such as on the wall.

The hub information may also be context relevant to the members of the hub and the calendar includes shared hub events. Calendar updates can be posted as notice events on the wall and a user can look at the wall to see upcoming hub events or the events that pertain to one or more other members of the hub. Messaging may also be performed that is private among the members of the hub. A member can instant text or other communication to all other members in the hub. Texting such as for a work meeting can divide each members display on their respective devices into individual screens for each member.

The hub may also be extensible and may link to a hard drive on a home computer or sync to just one of the other devices the manager or cloud control e.g. from a network based service . The hub may also be extensible to third parties that add a note on the hub wall such as implemented with application program interfaces APIs for functions to post data to the hub. A third party application however would not have access to the context of the hub wall such as to obtain or display hub data. The private information and hub data could be encrypted and only decrypted by the phone devices that are associated with the hub.

Thus the hub supported by a hub coordination architecture may be thought of as a central space for coordination of communications activities information and integration of members of the hub. Hubs may be defined to support a variety of different membership such as for family members coworkers friends acquaintances fan clubs and so forth. Therefore although examples are discussed that relate to a family in the following discussion it should be readily apparent that membership in the hub may be defined in a variety of other ways without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Accordingly the hub coordination architecture may be used to support a variety of different functionality. An example of this functionality is described herein as hub safe driving service and further aspects of private interaction hubs are also described herein.

The device includes communication devices that enable wired and or wireless communication of device data such as media content and the shared messages updates and events data at the device. The media content can include any type of audio video and or image data. The communication devices can also include transceivers for cellular phone communication and or for network data communication.

The device also includes input output I O interfaces such as data network interfaces that provide connection and or communication links between the device data networks and other devices. The I O interfaces can be used to couple the device to any type of components peripherals and or accessory devices. The I O interfaces also include data input ports via which any type of data media content and or inputs can be received such as user inputs to the device as well as any type of audio video and or image data received from any content and or data source.

The I O interfaces also support natural user interface NUI inputs to the device such as any interface technology that enables a user to interact with a device in a natural manner free from artificial constraints imposed by input devices such as mice keyboards remote controls and the like. Examples of natural user interface inputs may rely on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition on screen and motion gesture recognition proximate the device head eye and environment recognition and tracking augmented reality and virtual reality systems and any other type of audible vision touch gesture and or machine intelligence that may determine user input intentions.

The device includes a processing system that may be implemented at least partially in hardware such as with any type of microprocessors controllers and the like that process executable instructions. The processing system can include components of an integrated circuit programmable logic device a logic device formed using one or more semiconductors and other implementations in silicon and or hardware such as a processor and memory system implemented as a system on chip SoC . Alternatively or in addition the device can be implemented with any one or combination of software hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that may be implemented with processing and control circuits. The device may further include any type of a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components within the device. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures and architectures as well as control and data lines.

The device also includes computer readable storage media such as data storage devices that can be accessed by a computing device and that provide persistent storage of data and executable instructions e.g. software applications programs functions and the like . Examples of computer readable storage media include volatile memory and non volatile memory fixed and removable media devices and any suitable memory device or electronic data storage that maintains data for computing device access. The computer readable storage media can include various implementations of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and other types of storage media in various memory device configurations.

Generally computer readable storage media is representative of media and or devices that enable persistent and or non transitory storage of data in contrast to mere signal transmission carrier waves or signals per se. A computer readable signal media may refer to a signal bearing medium that transmits instructions such as via a network. The signal media can embody computer readable instructions as data in a modulated data signal such as carrier waves or other transport mechanism.

The computer readable storage media provides storage of the device data and various device applications such as an operating system that is maintained as a software application with the computer readable storage media and executed by the processing system . In this example the device applications also include a device share service that implements embodiments of mobile device safe driving such as when the example device is implemented as the mobile device shown in . An example of the safe driving service is the safe driving service that is integrated with the operating system at the mobile device as described with reference to .

The device applications can also include any of the services and applications that implement embodiments of mobile device safe driving. The example device also includes a family coordination architecture which may be implemented in the general context of software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry or any combination thereof to support embodiments of mobile device safe driving and or mobile devices family coordination. The device can also include a positioning system such as a GPS transceiver or similar positioning system components that can be utilized to determine a global or navigational position of the device.

The device also includes an audio and or video system that generates audio data for an audio device and or generates display data for a display device . The audio device and or the display device include any devices that process display and or otherwise render audio video display and or image data. In implementations the audio device and or the display device are integrated components of the example device . Alternatively the audio device and or the display device are external peripheral components to the example device.

In embodiments at least part of the techniques described for mobile device safe driving may be implemented in a distributed system such as over a cloud in a platform . The cloud includes and or is representative of the platform for services and or resources . For example the services may include the cloud storage and service and any of the data services as described with reference to . Additionally the resources may include the driving reports as described with reference to .

The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware such as server devices e.g. included in the services and or software resources e.g. included as the resources and connects the example device with other devices servers etc. The resources may also include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the example device . Additionally the services and or the resources may facilitate subscriber network services such as over the Internet a cellular network or Wi Fi network. The platform may also serve to abstract and scale resources to service a demand for the resources that are implemented via the platform such as in an interconnected device embodiment with functionality distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part at the example device as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

Although embodiments of mobile device safe driving have been described in language specific to features and or methods the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as example implementations of mobile device safe driving.

