---

title: Triggering a communicative action based on a client-determined relationship between proximate client devices
abstract: In an aspect, a client device detects a set of proximate client devices. The client device classifies, for each respective proximate client device in the set of proximate client devices, a relationship relative to an operator of the client device based on a local evaluation of one or more interactions between the client device and at least one proximate client device from the set of proximate client devices in response to the detecting. The client device determines whether to automatically trigger a communicative action with one or more proximate client devices from the set of proximate client devices based on the classifying.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462045&OS=09462045&RS=09462045
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09462045
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140808
---
Aspects of this disclosure relate generally to triggering a communicative action based on a client determined relationship between proximate client devices.

If a user wants to automatically share information e.g. a WiFi access code etc. via a client device with one or more other users operating one or more other client devices the user is required to have predefined relationships with the one or more other users that are defined manually by the user. For example if the user carries a first client device at a shopping mall the user would not want sensitive information to be automatically delivered to another client device unless the other client device is presumed to be authorized to receive the sensitive information based on the other client device having a predefined relationship with the user e.g. such as the user having previously identified the other client device as a friend family member or business colleague in a contact list of the first client device etc. .

Similarly if the user wants to search for information e.g. a list of digital movies or e books available for borrowing etc. on other client devices the other client devices will not necessarily authorize the client device to obtain access to the information unless the other client devices recognize the predetermined relationship with the user e.g. such as users of the other client devices having previously identified the first client device as a friend family member or business colleague in a contact list of the other client devices etc. .

Accordingly automatic dissemination of sensitive data between client devices is typically only permitted when the client device providing the data recognizes the other client device as a trusted device via the predetermined relationship that is formed based on manual effort by a user operating the client device providing the data. Without such a predetermined relationship the sensitive data would only be shared with the approval of the user and not automatically.

An aspect is directed to a method whereby a client device detects a set of proximate client devices. The client device classifies for each respective proximate client device in the set of proximate client devices a relationship relative to an operator of the client device based on a local evaluation of interactions between the client device and at least one proximate client device from the set of proximate client devices in response to the detecting. The client device determines whether to automatically trigger a communicative action with one or more proximate client devices from the set of proximate client devices based on the classifying.

Another aspect is directed to a client device that includes means for detecting a set of proximate client devices. The client device further includes means for classifying for each respective proximate client device in the set of proximate client devices a relationship relative to an operator of the client device based on a local evaluation of one or more interactions between the client device and at least one proximate client device from the set of proximate client devices in response to the detecting. The client device further includes means for determining whether to automatically trigger a communicative action with one or more proximate client devices from the set of proximate client devices based on the classifying.

Another aspect is directed to a client device that includes logic configured to detect a set of proximate client devices. The client device further includes logic configured to classify for each respective proximate client device in the set of proximate client devices a relationship relative to an operator of the client device based on a local evaluation of one or more interactions between the client device and at least one proximate client device from the set of proximate client devices in response to the detecting. The client device further includes logic configured to determine whether to automatically trigger a communicative action with one or more proximate client devices from the set of proximate client devices based on the classifying.

Another aspect is directed to a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions stored thereon which when executed by a client device cause the client device to perform operations. The instructions executed by the client device include at least one instruction to cause the client device to detect a set of proximate client devices. The instructions executed by the client device further include at least one instruction to cause the client device to classify for each respective proximate client device in the set of proximate client devices a relationship relative to an operator of the client device based on a local evaluation of one or more interactions between the client device and at least one proximate client device from the set of proximate client devices in response to the detecting. The instructions executed by the client device further include at least one instruction to cause the client device to determine whether to automatically trigger a communicative action with one or more proximate client devices from the set of proximate client devices based on the classifying.

The disclosure relates in some aspects to triggering a communicative action based on a client determined relationship between proximate client devices. As will be described below in more detail illustrates a communication environment whereby one or more user equipments UEs or client devices can detect other nearby or proximate UEs or client devices. illustrate examples of UEs or client devices that can perform the aforementioned proximity detection. In an aspect of the disclosure a given UE or client device can use the aforementioned proximity detection to classify one or more proximately detected UEs or client devices so as to trigger a communicative action e.g. see . For example one aspect of the disclosure relates to sharing protected information such as a password e.g. an access point password or digital content with a proximate client device that has a qualifying relationship relative to a source client device e.g. see . Another aspect of the disclosure relates to requesting protected information such as digital content from the proximate client device that has the qualifying relationship relative to a source client device e.g. see .

Aspects of the disclosure are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific aspects of the disclosure. Alternate aspects may be devised without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally well known elements of the disclosure will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the disclosure.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. Likewise the term aspects of the disclosure does not require that all aspects of the disclosure include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many aspects are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. As used herein a set refers to any grouping of items in this case computer instructions that includes at least one respective item. So the set of computer instructions can include a single computer instruction or a plurality of computer instructions. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the aspects described herein the corresponding form of any such aspects may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Optimized EVDO evolved High Rate Packet Data eHRPD Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Wideband CDMA W CDMA Long Term Evolution LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to a server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the server via the core network and or the Internet and or to provide content e.g. web page downloads to the UEs.

In an example the server may include a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive. The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor. The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network e.g. RAN AP etc. coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet .

Referring to in an example UE is configured with a set of modules for performing a proximity detection function and for triggering certain actions based on the proximity detection function. In particular the set of modules includes a proximity detection module a classification module and an action determination module . The proximity detection module is configured to detect one or more other UEs in proximity to UE . For example the proximity detection module can include a Near Field Communication NFC transceiver e.g. a Bluetooth transceiver etc. that is configured to detect NFC beacons from other proximate UEs. The proximity detection module is associated with a proximity detection range whereby one or more proximately located UEs are expected to be capable of detection by the proximity detection module of UE . As shown in UE is inside the proximate detection range and is thereby capable of being proximately detected by the proximity detection module of UE whereas UEs . . . N are outside of the proximate detection range and are unlikely to be detected as proximate by the proximity detection module of UE .

The classification module can include logic that when executed by a processor of UE permits UE to classify one or more relationships to one or more proximately detected UEs. The action determination module can include logic that when executed by a processor of UE permits UE to determine whether to perform one or more communicative actions with any of the one or more proximately detected UEs. More detailed examples of the various functionality of the proximity detection module the classification module and the action determination module will be provide below with respect to .

Also shown in is a proximate detection range associated with UE . For example while not shown explicitly in UE can be equipped with the set of modules in a similar manner as compared to UE although UE is in a different location and is likely to have a different set of proximate UEs. In for example each of UEs . . . and . . . N are shown as outside the proximate detection range of UE and are thereby unlikely to be detected as proximate by UE .

While illustrates UE A with display A and UE B with touchscreen display B it will be appreciated that other UEs can be implemented in accordance with a multi display configuration e.g. a front display and a rear display two non contiguous displays on a single side of the respective UE a combination of a screen display and a projection display or any combination thereof . Further while internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. server web Uniform Resource Locators URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the aspects of the disclosure and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of aspects of the disclosure.

Furthermore with reference to the platform is one example of how the set of modules described above with respect to can be implemented. For example the proximity detection module can be implemented by the transceiver in combination with ASIC whereby the transceiver detects one or more signals from one or more proximate UEs e.g. one or more NFC signals such as Bluetooth one or more WiFi signals etc. and ASIC analyzes the one or more detected signals. The classification module can be implemented by the ASIC and memory whereby the ASIC evaluates a log of one or more interactions from the memory so as to classify one or more proximately detected UEs in an example. The action determination module can be implemented by the ASIC whereby the ASIC determines whether a particular communicative action can be triggered in response to the classification s of the one or more proximately detected UEs in an example.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B access point a BS Node B or eNodeB in the RAN etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a modulator demodulator MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a Universal Serial Bus USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local radio frequency RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality. Furthermore the logic configured to receive and or transmit is one example of how the proximity detection module can be implemented whereby the logic configured to receive and or transmit detects one or more signals from one or more proximate UEs e.g. one or more NFC signals such as Bluetooth one or more WiFi signals etc. .

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any type of processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality. Furthermore the logic configured to process information is one example of how the classification module and action determination module can be implemented whereby the classification module evaluates a log of one or more interactions to classify one or more proximately detected UEs in an example and the action determination module determines whether a particular communicative action can be triggered in response to the classification s of the one or more proximately detected UEs in an example.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a Compact Disc CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an aspect that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the aspects described below in more detail.

Referring to the given client device detects a set of client devices that are proximate to the given client device . As noted above a set refers to any grouping of items in this case client devices that includes at least one respective item. So the set of client devices detected at can include a single client device or a plurality of client devices. The detection of can occur in any number of ways. For example the given client device can detect the set of proximate client devices via a local wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi etc. such as a peer to peer P2P communications interface. In an alternative example the set of proximate client devices can be detected on a local network with proximity being assumed based on the given client device being logged into the same local network as the set of proximate client devices. Other examples of how proximity can be detected between the respective client devices include a location coordinate comparison e.g. based upon respective location coordinates estimated via GPS forward link trilateration etc. . In an example the detection of can be implemented by the proximity detection module as shown in the transceiver in combination with ASIC as shown in the logic configured to receive and or transmit information as shown in the module of or any combination thereof.

In response to the detection of the given client device classifies a relationship type e.g. friend work short phone call friends long phone call friends 10 IMs per day friend etc. for each respective proximate client device in the set of proximate client device based on a local evaluation of one or more interactions between the given client device and at least one proximate client device from the set of proximate client devices . For example a log of one or more interactions e.g. a call log a message log a proximate detection log etc. that is maintained by the given client device can be evaluated by the given client device to perform the classification at as will be described in more detail below with respect to . In an example the classification of can be implemented by the classification module as shown in the ASIC as shown in the logic configured to process information as shown in the module of or any combination thereof.

Based on the classified relationship s from the given client device determines whether to automatically trigger a communicative action with one or more proximate client devices from the set of proximate client devices . In an example the determination of can be implemented by the action determination module as shown in the ASIC as shown in the logic configured to process information as shown in the module of or any combination thereof.

Referring to client device interacts via one or more interactions with client devices and over a period of time and client device does not interact with client devices . . . N over the period of time . The one or more interactions of can take a variety of forms including but not limited to emails voice calls video calls instant messages social media messages proximate detections e.g. client devices and are both at Starbucks on Thursdays between 2 4 PM client devices and are within Bluetooth range of each other during normal work hours etc. and so on. Client device maintains a log of the one or more interactions from . The log of one or more interactions can be generated at client device itself via local interaction monitoring or can be downloaded from at least one external server or both. For example client device can add interaction information to the log of one or more interactions based on local interaction monitoring at client device i.e. self monitoring while also periodically supplementing the local interaction monitoring information in the log of one or more interactions with external information downloaded from the external server s . Irrespective of whether the information in the log of one or more interactions is initially generated at client device the external server s or some combination thereof the log of one or more interactions is maintained locally at client device so that client device may classify its own relationship associations as will be described in more detail below.

In an example of the log of one or more interactions can include a message log a call log a proximity detection log or any combination thereof. The log of one or more interactions maintained at can include statistical information related to the one or more interactions from actual recordings of the one or more interactions from or both. For example for a call log the log of one or more interactions can include statistical information related to calls in which client device participated e.g. duration of calls whether calls including an audio component a video component or both a timing when a call starts or end such as time of day whether client device was the call originator or call target an identifier or contact address of the other call party for a 1 1 call or identifiers or contact addresses of other call parties for a group call how long client device held the floor for a half duplex call how many times client device requested the floor for a half duplex call whether the operator of client device muted client device during the call etc. . The call log could also optionally include audio and or video recordings of at least some of the logged calls e.g. whole recordings or mere excerpts . The call log could also optionally obtain call extracted information or content excerpt such as whether certain keywords were used in calls e.g. an operator of client device may refer to an operator of client device or client device as their best friend sister or work colleague or the operator of client device is told I love you by the other party which implies the other party is a friend or family member of the operator of client device etc. which may help classify a relationship of the respective operators of client devices . . . .

Similarly for a message log the log of one or more interactions can include statistical information e.g. length of message message type such as instant message social network message or email time of day when message is sent etc. or message content e.g. excerpts of an email or instance message attachments to an email etc. . More specifically the message log can include a duration timing or length of messages exchanged between the client device and at least one proximate client device whether the client device or the at least one proximate client device initiated a respective message between the client device and the at least one proximate client device at least one contact address for the at least one proximate client device is local or international a location classification of the client device when one or more messages are exchanged between the client device and the at least one proximate client device e.g. client device only messages client device when client device is at a Home Location during non work hours etc. and or a content excerpt from at least one message exchanged between the client device and the at least one proximate client device.

For a proximity detection log the log of one or more interactions can include a number of times or frequency in which client device is detected as being proximate to client device client device or client device a duration and or time of day at which client device remain proximate with client device client device or client device e.g. if client devices and are usually proximate between 6 PM until 5 AM the next day then the operators of client devices and probably live together how long it has been since a previous proximate detection whether a frequency of one or more proximate detections has changed e.g. a boyfriend operating client device breaks up with a girlfriend operating client device resulting in a reduction in proximate detections between client devices and from which a relationship status change is inferred etc. and so on.

In a further example the call log proximate detection log and or message log components can include a location classification. For example if client device calls client device via an international phone number the call log may reflect the call as an international call. If the international calls between client device and client device occur consistently over time client device can be classified as an international contact relative to client device . In another example the call log can reflect that client device calls or messages client device only when client device is at a Work Location or the message log can reflect that client device only messages client device when client device is at a Home Location and so on. The proximate detection log can reflect that client devices and are only proximately while at a Home Location which implies that client device is operated by a roommate who does not hang out with the operator of client device outside of the Home Location.

Accordingly the log of one or more interactions maintained by client device can include any type of information that can be ascertained from one or more previous interactions that is relevant to classifying a relationship e.g. relationship type degree of relationship or both between the operator of client device and the operators of client devices with which client device interacts.

At client device detects client device in local proximity e.g. similar to of with the set of proximate client devices including client device . Client device then classifies its relationship to client device based on a local evaluation of one or more interactions between client device and client device e.g. from the log of one or more interactions in response to the proximity detection of . For example at logged information that is relevant to classifying a relationship between client devices and or their operators can be extracted from the log of information and then used to classify the relationship. As used herein the term relationship is used interchangeably to refer to operator to operator or user to user relationships. So a reference to client device having a relationship to client device implies that their respective operators have a relationship as opposed to the devices themselves. Also while the classifying operation of is described as occurring in response to the proximity detection of it will be appreciated that some relationships can be pre classified by client device as opposed to having the classifying operation specifically triggered by the proximity detection. Irrespective of whether the classifying operation is a pre classifying operation or a proximity detection triggered operation the actual relationship classification occurs at client device and not at an external server e.g. such as a social networking server and the relationship classification does not necessarily rely upon direct user input. In other words the one or more interactions are monitored in an automated manner at to classify the relationship between client devices and as opposed to the operator of client device manually identifying client device as a Work contact or a Family member.

Examples of how one or more different types of one or more interactions between client device and client device can be used to classify the relationship at will now be provided. In Table 1 below examples are provided whereby one or more different interactions are mapped to both a relationship type and a degree of relationship. For convenience of explanation the degrees of relationship are identified as close intermediate or far although additional nuance can be added to the degrees of relationship in other aspects of the disclosure.

As will be appreciated information from the call log message log and or proximity detection log can be evaluated to determine the relationship e.g. the relationship type degree of relationship or both as shown in Examples 1 6 from Table 1 above . In Example 1 from Table 1 frequent phone calls during work hours designate client device as a Local Work Call Contact of client device with the high number of calls designating client device as having a Close degree of relationship with client device . In Example 2 from Table 1 fewer but longer phone calls during non work hours along with a high number of personal instant messages IMs designate client device as a Remote Long Call High IM Friend of client device with the long calls and high number of personal IMs further designating client device as having a Close degree of relationship with client device . In Example 3 from Table 1 limited communication via calls or messages occurs between client devices and but numerous high frequency and high duration proximity detections occur between client devices and at a Home location. This implies that client device is operated by a roommate of the operator of client device but not necessarily a friend given their lack of device to device communication. Thereby client device in Example 3 is designated as a Roommate of client device with the limited communication further designating client device as having an Intermediate degree of relationship with client device .

In Example 4 from Table 1 infrequent but consistent short yearly calls between client devices and while client device is at a Work Office location designate client device as an International Work Call Contact of client device with the limited frequency and duration of the calls along with no messages or proximity detections causing client device to have a Far degree of relationship with client device . In Example 5 from Table 1 infrequent emails during work hours from a Work Office location followed by brief post email meetings designates client device as an Email Work Meeting Contact of client device with client device having a have an Intermediate degree of relationship with client device . In Example 6 from Table 1 frequent instant messages coupled with excerpts that qualify client device as being operated by a mother of the operator of client device designates client device as Family of client device with a Close degree of relationship.

It will be appreciated that Table 1 above merely provides a few specific examples of how various interactions can be mapped to a given relationship classification e.g. relationship type and degree of relationship and that there are many other potential relationship classifications that could occur from the same interaction s or different interaction s . Also in some cases the relationship type classification can be determined without estimating an associated degree of the relationship. As will be appreciated a user may want certain communicative actions triggered automatically for any Family member e.g. sharing a public profile picture and an up to date public contact address portion of a contact address profile irrespective of the degree of relationship between the user and the Family member. In a further example other relationship classifications can be defined by temporal spatial and or social proximity between two respective contacts.

Returning to after classifying the relationship between client device and client device at client device determines whether to automatically trigger a communicative action with client device based on the relationship classification e.g. similar to of . Table 2 below shows a few examples of communicative actions that can be automatically triggered responsive to proximity detections with client devices identified has having particular qualifying relationships with client device 

In Example 1 from Table 2 above when client device determines itself to be located at a Home Location e.g. based on GPS coordinates based on being connected to a Home AP etc. and client device detects a proximate client device that is classified as Family Close Intermediate Far or Friend Close Intermediate client device can automatically push a WiFi access password to a Home AP at the Home Location e.g. a Service Set Identifier SSID MyHomeRouter Password Password1234 . As will be appreciated the operator of client device would not necessarily want his her WiFi access password automatically shared with anyone at his her Home Location nor would the operator of client device necessarily want to share his her contacts who are not actually at the Home Location where the WiFi access password is used. Thereby the WiFi access password can only be shared with client devices associated with a certain relationship classification e.g. relationship type and or degree of relationship when proximately detected at the Home Location.

In Example 2 from Table 2 above when client device detects a proximate client device that is classified as a Family Close Intermediate Far or Friend Close Intermediate Far client device can automatically send updated contact information to the detected proximate client device. For example if client device is operated by a friend of the operator of client device client device likely has a contact record with some contact information for the operator of client device . Client device is likely to have current contact information for the operator of client device e.g. email home address phone number etc. whereas client device is more likely to have out of date contact information for client device . As will be appreciated the operator of client device would not necessarily want contact information automatically shared with anyone who happens to be proximately detected by client device . Thereby some or all of client device s contact information for the operator of client device can be shared with client devices associated with a certain relationship classification e.g. relationship type and degree of relationship when proximately detected.

In Example 3 from Table 2 above when client device determines itself to be located at a Work Location e.g. based on GPS coordinates based on being connected to a Work AP etc. and client device detects a proximate client device that is classified as a Work colleague Close Intermediate client device can automatically send work specific contact information to the detected proximate client device. For example if client device is operated by an Intermediate or Close Work colleague client device likely has a contact record with some contact information for the operator of client device with client device potentially having more up to date contact information for the operator of client device . However the operator of client device may not want all of his her contact information shared with a Work colleague such as home address a personal email address a personal profile picture a home phone number and so on. Thereby in an example only client device s work specific contact information e.g. work email address work address work phone number professional profile picture work website address etc. for the operator of client device can be shared with Work Colleagues of client device .

In Example 4 from Table 2 above when client device detects a proximate client device that is classified as Friend Close Intermediate or Family Close Intermediate client device can either automatically grant the detected proximate client device to access to client device s digital content or can automatically request access to digital content owned by the detected proximate client device. For example the operator of client device may be interested in purchasing digital content e.g. a book or a movie so the operator adds the digital content to a wish list. The operator can further establish a rule whereby proximately detected Friends Close Intermediate or Family Close Intermediate are automatically queried to request to borrow the digital content listed on the operator s wish list. In a reverse example the operator of client device may own certain digital content and client device may receive a request from the detected proximate client device to borrow the digital content. In this case operator can further establish a rule whereby these types of digital content requests are automatically granted for proximately detected Friends Close Intermediate or Family Close Intermediate assuming operator actually owns the digital content and is permitted to lend it to other client devices.

In Example 5 from Table 2 above when client device detects a proximate client device that is classified as Friend Close Intermediate or Family Close Intermediate client device can either automatically grant the detected proximate client device access to client device s behavioral profile data e.g. a list of websites visited by client device a purchase history of client device a list of e books that have been read by the operator on client device etc. or can automatically request access to behavioral profile data for the detected proximate client device. For example the operator of client device may be interested in purchasing digital content e.g. a book or a movie so the operator identifies the digital content to be of interest in his her profile. The operator can further establish a rule whereby proximately detected Friends Close Intermediate or Family Close Intermediate are automatically queried to request whether they have viewed or purchased the identified digital content. In a reverse example the operator of client device may receive a request from the detected proximate client device to obtain information behavioral profile data that characterizes client device and or its operator and these types of behavioral profile data requests are automatically granted for proximately detected Friends Close or Family Close .

Returning to at assume that client device determines not to automatically trigger a communicative action with client device based on the relationship classification at . For example client device may be classified as a Friend Far at and a current location of client device may be a Work Location so client device may decide not to automatically share a Home WiFi password with client device in this scenario. Accordingly client device does not trigger any automatic communicative action with client device .

At client device detects client device in local proximity e.g. similar to of with the set of proximate client devices including client devices and at this point . Client device classifies a relationship e.g. relationship type degree of relationship or both for client device based on a local evaluation of one or more interactions between client device and client device e.g. from the log of one or more interactions in response to the proximity detection of e.g. similar to . For example at logged information that is relevant to classifying a relationship between client devices and or their operators can be extracted from the log of information and then used to classify a relationship type and degree of relationship between client devices and or their operators .

At assume that client device determines to automatically trigger a communicative action with client device based on the relationship classification at . For example client device may be classified as a Friend Close at and a current location of client device may be a Home Location so client device may decide to automatically share a Home WiFi password with client device in this scenario. Accordingly client device triggers at least one automatic communicative action with client device . In an example multiple automatic communicative actions can be triggered at e.g. client device can send a Home WiFi password to client device while also granting client device access to behavior profile data and requesting digital content from client device that is identified in a wish list of client device etc. .

At client device detects client devices . . . N in local proximity e.g. similar to of with the set of proximate client devices including client devices . . . N at this point . Client device attempts to classify relationship s e.g. relationship type degree of relationship etc. for client devices . . . N in response to the proximity detection of but in this case there are no interactions with any of client devices . . . N in the log of one or more interactions so client devices . . . N are classified with a default or stranger status . For example client devices . . . N may be operated by users who do not know the operator of client device at all and are not recognized as being associated with client device except for their respective proximities to client device e.g. the respective client devices may simply be nearby strangers at a movie theater shopping mall etc. . At client device determines not to automatically trigger a communicative action with client devices . . . N due to their associated stranger status and client device does not trigger any automatic communicative action with client devices . . . N .

Further as will be appreciated from a review of client device interacts with client device at even though client device is not detected as being in proximity to client device during the process of . This emphasizes that the logging operation of can include a remote logging aspect e.g. one or more calls or messages exchanged between client devices that are not proximate etc. even if the respective client devices do not become proximate.

Referring to after client device is detected as a proximate client device and verified to have a relationship that qualifies client device to automatically trigger delivery of a password for the WiFi AP client device transmits the password to client device e.g. as part of execution of of . In an example the password can be transmitted from client device to client device via a direct connection such as a peer to peer connection e.g. Bluetooth etc. . Alternatively the password can be transmitted from client device to client device via a network connection that is separate from the WiFi AP e.g. a cellular connection etc. . Once client device obtains the password client device can attempt to automatically connect to the WiFi AP using the password .

Referring to after client device is detected as a proximate client device and verified to have a relationship that qualifies client device to automatically trigger digital content requests e.g. requests for an e book or movie added to a wish list for the operator of client device etc. client device transmits the digital content request to client device . The digital content request can be transmitted from client device to client device via a direct connection such as a peer to peer connection e.g. Bluetooth etc. or via a network connection. Client device receives the digital content request and determines whether client device has access to the requested digital content and if so whether client device is permitted to share the requested digital content with client device . Based on the determination of client device either provides the requested digital content to client device e.g. by attaching the requested digital content by providing a URL where the requested digital content can be accessed etc. or alternatively provides a notification that the requested digital content cannot be provided . As will be appreciated of can collectively correspond to part of the execution of of . Further while not shown explicitly in the determination of can be based upon parallel execution of the process of at client device similar to Example 4 1 from Table 2 above and below whereby client device automatically grants the digital content request of based on client device having a recognized qualifying relationship with client device .

Referring to after client device is detected as a proximate client device and verified to have a relationship that qualifies client device to have its digital content requests e.g. requests for an e book or movie added to a wish list for the operator of client device etc. automatically granted by client device client device transmits a digital content request to client device . The digital content request can be transmitted by client device to client device via a direct connection such as a peer to peer connection e.g. Bluetooth etc. or via a network connection. Client device receives the digital content request and determines whether client device has access to the requested digital content and if so whether client device is permitted to automatically share the requested digital content with client device . More specifically client device verifies whether its relationship with client device is a qualifying relationship e.g. Family Close Intermediate or Friend Close Intermediate that permits automatically granting digital content requests as in Example 4 1 from Table 2 above . Based on the determination of client device either provides the requested digital content to client device e.g. by attaching the requested digital content by providing a URL where the requested digital content can be accessed etc. or alternatively provides a notification that the requested digital content cannot be provided . As will be appreciated of can collectively correspond to part of the execution of of . Further while not shown explicitly in the transmission of the digital content request at can be based upon parallel execution of the process of at client device similar to Example 4 2 from Table 2 above or above whereby client device automatically transmits the digital content request of based on client device having a recognized qualifying relationship with client device .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any type of processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions stored thereon which when executed by a client device cause the client device to perform operations the instructions including at least one instruction to cause the client device to detect a set of proximate client devices at least one instruction to cause the client device to classify for each respective proximate client device in the set of proximate client devices a relationship relative to an operator of the client device based on a local evaluation of one or more interactions between the client device and at least one proximate client device from the set of proximate client devices in response to the detecting and at least one instruction to cause the client device to determine whether to automatically trigger a communicative action with one or more proximate client devices from the set of proximate client devices based on the classifying.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the aspects of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

