---

title: Remote issue logging and reporting of mobile station issues and diagnostic information to manufacturer
abstract: A user of a mobile station can report a mobile station issue by transmitting a report including a description of the mobile station issue and other information for rapid troubleshooting and resolution by a manufacturer, through a wireless mobile communication network, to the manufacturer of the mobile station or its software, via a life cycle management tool program at a network. The report sent by the user of the mobile station may include information relating to the description of the mobile station issue, mobile station device information, device operation information, diagnostic logs, or captured screenshots. The life cycle management tool program stores the report including the information and sends an electronic notification to a technical center of a carrier and/or the manufacturer of the mobile station or its software for review and resolution of the reported mobile station issue in real time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09075716&OS=09075716&RS=09075716
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09075716
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140217
---
This application is a Divisional Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 248 621 filed Sep. 29 2011 the contents of such application being incorporated by reference herein.

The present subject matter relates to techniques and equipment to remotely report a mobile station issue from a mobile station to a network through wireless mobile communications and make information so obtained accessible by original equipment and or software manufacturers for faster review and resolution of the mobile station issue.

In recent years mobile communication services have expanded and increased in popularity around the world. Many advanced networks offer wireless mobile communication services for voice calls mobile messaging services e.g. text and or multimedia and data communications. The data communication services for example enable surfing the world wide web e.g. via a browser on mobile stations. As various value added services are made available to mobile station users more and more applications are installed and used on mobile stations causing sometimes mobile station or device issues.

As technologies have improved over the years the features and functionalities supported in mobile stations have increased in number and complexity. This has also increased the varieties and complexities of troubles or issues that users may experience with their mobile stations.

When a user of a mobile station runs into a mobile station issue the user often returns the mobile station at a retail store for device check up or the user calls a customer care representative of a carrier or service provider to report the mobile station issue for resolution. When the mobile station issue is reported at the retail store information relating to the mobile station issue is at best collected by a representative at the retail store. The representative generally finds out what the mobile station issue is by talking to the user. Using a client terminal the representative then remotely logs onto a technical support system of the carrier and manually enters the information about the issue into an issue tracking and management system or a life cycle management tool located at the carrier s or service provider s network for later review and resolution by a manufacturer of the mobile station or its software. Alternately when the user of the mobile station calls and reports a mobile station issue to a customer care representative over the phone the customer care representative collects the information as best as possible and manually enters the collected information relating to the reported issue into the issue tracking and management system for later review and resolution by a manufacturer of the mobile station or its software.

In both cases data about the mobile station issue is collected from the user of the mobile station and manually entered into the issue tracking and management system by the retail store or customer care representative. However the manufacturer original equipment manufacturer or software manufacturer often requires more than the information collected and provided by the retail store or customer care representative for review and resolution of the reported mobile station issue.

In addition there are often delays and a passage of time between the report of the mobile station issue and actual review of the reported mobile station issue by the manufacturer because certain device operation information and logs are not collected and provided by the retail store or customer care representative. These delays and passage of time thus often hamper efforts of the manufacturer in troubleshooting and resolving reported mobile station issues in a timely manner because after a few days some diagnostic logs and information are lost or overwritten and thus become unavailable to the manufacturer for debugging purposes.

Further some mobile diagnostic software techniques of collecting information on a mobile station and techniques of wireless transmission of the collected information from the mobile station to a network are known. However a technique for integrating all needed elements in a seamless manner from the mobile station to the manufacturer of the mobile station or its software does not exist. That is there is no end to end mechanism to facilitate rapid review and resolution of a mobile station issue by the manufacturer.

Hence there is still a need for an improved or simplified technique for facilitating rapid review and resolution of mobile station issues by a manufacturer of mobile stations or its software.

The teachings herein alleviate one or more of the above noted problems with reporting of a mobile station issue and other needed information by providing a seamless end to end mechanism between a user of a mobile station and a manufacturer e.g. an original equipment manufacturer of the mobile station or its software manufacturer to facilitate rapid review and resolution of the mobile station issue.

In a disclosed example a system for reporting an issue that has occurred on a mobile station configured for communication through a mobile communication network includes an issue report application as well as application programming interfaces APIs for enabling the issue report application to communicate with at least one hardware or software component in the mobile station. A processor of the mobile station executes the issue report application which configures the mobile station to perform functions of providing a user interface to allow a user to input a description of the mobile station issue and to initiate a report automatically collecting via one or more of the APIs information regarding conditions of at least one hardware or software component in the mobile station at about a time of the occurrence of the issue and responsive to the user initiation transmitting the report including the description of the mobile station issue and the collected information through the mobile communication network. The system also includes a computer system coupled to the mobile communication network a storage device accessible by a processor of the computer system and a life cycle management tool program stored in the storage device. The life cycle management tool program configures the computer system to perform functions to receive the transmitted report from the mobile station store data or information including the description of the mobile station issue and the collected information from the received report and send an electronic notification regarding the occurrence of the issue to a technical center of a carrier and or a system of a technician of a manufacturer responsible for at least one hardware or software component of the mobile station involved in the mobile station issue. The computer system also provides communications with the system of the technician to allow the technician online access to the stored description of the mobile station issue and the stored collected information in real time.

In another example a method is disclosed for reporting an issue that has occurred on a mobile station configured for communication through a mobile communication network. A user interface is provided to allow a user of the mobile station to input a description of the mobile station issue and to initiate a report. Information is automatically collected via one or more of the APIs regarding conditions of at least one hardware or software component in the mobile station at about a time of the occurrence of the issue. Responsive to a user input a report is transmitted over the mobile communication network. The report includes the description of the mobile station issue inputted by the user and the automatically collected information via the APIs on the mobile station. The report is transmitted from the mobile station via the mobile communication network to a life cycle management tool in which the description of the mobile station issue and the collected information are stored. Then an electronic notification regarding the occurrence of the mobile station issue is generated and sent to a technical center of a carrier and or a system of a technician of a manufacturer responsible for at least one component of the mobile station involved in the mobile station issue such as a manufacturer of the mobile station or its software. The method further provides communications with the system of the technician to allow the technician online access to the stored description of the mobile station issue and the collected information in real time e.g. for troubleshooting and root cause analysis of the reported mobile station issue.

Thus the disclosed technique herein provides a seamless end to end mechanism for reporting mobile station issues and facilitating rapid review and resolution thereof by a manufacturer. As a result the manufacturer can investigate the reported mobile station issue in near real time thereby increasing overall process efficiency likelihood of resolution of the issue and customer satisfaction. In the disclosed technique the manufacturer can be an original equipment manufacturer of mobile stations or its software manufacturer or vendor.

Additional advantages and novel features will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production or operation of the examples. The advantages of the present teachings may be realized and attained by practice or use of various aspects of the methodologies instrumentalities and combinations set forth in the detailed examples discussed below.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below.

In the example the mobile communication network might be implemented as a network conforming to the code division multiple access CDMA type standard the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 wireless standard the Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standard Long Term Evolution LTE standard or other telecommunications standards used for public mobile wireless communications. The mobile stations and are capable of conventional voice telephone data communications and other value added services including multimedia services.

The mobile stations and can take the form of portable handsets smart phones or personal digital assistants tablet devices or the like although they may be implemented in other form factors. In the example the mobile station is a non touch type mobile station and the mobile station is a touch screen type mobile station. The mobile stations and execute various stored mobile applications or mobile software on the devices. An application running on a mobile station or may be configured to execute on many different types of the mobile stations. For example a mobile application can be written to execute on a binary runtime environment for a BREW based mobile station a Windows Mobile based mobile station an Android iOS for iPhone or iPad Java Mobile or RIM based mobile station operating system or the like. Some of these types of mobile stations can employ a multi tasking operating system as well.

The mobile communication network can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the mobile communication network may include a number of radio access networks RANs for example including base stations as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements.

It will be understood that the various network elements can communicate with each other and other elements of the mobile communication network as well as with other networks e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN other mobile networks any private networks such as operated by the carrier and the Internet either directly or indirectly.

The carrier will also operate a number of systems that provide ancillary functions in support of the mobile communications services and or application services provided through the system and those elements communicate with other nodes or elements of the system via one or more private Internet Protocol IP type packet data networks sometimes referred to as an Intranet i.e. a private network. Generally such ancillary systems are part of or connected for communication via the private network . A person skilled in the art however would recognize that systems outside of the private network could serve the same functions as well. Examples of such systems in this case operated by the carrier or network service provider as part of the overall network which communicate through the intranet type network include one or more application servers .

In the example the system includes a quality center which is described in detail below. The quality center comprises one or more servers not shown equipped with testing and defect tracking and management software. Generally the quality center is set up for quality assurance purposes and product life cycle management such as in the example mobile station life cycle management which covers different phases of mobile station and its application software testing. For example the quality center is involved in mobile software releases specifying requirements planning tests executing tests tracking defects and analyzing results etc. Often the quality center also serves as a central repository for organizing and managing the different phases of mobile station including mobile application software testing process.

In the example the quality center includes a life cycle management tool which is implemented by one or more servers equipped with a life cycle management tool software or program. It is noted that although the quality center may include various other elements for the discussion purposes the quality center will refer to a server equipped with appropriate life cycle management tool program a life cycle management tool LCMT . Also the quality center can be implemented in various forms e.g. a centralized vs distributed system and can be located outside the network as part of the carrier s private network e.g. on a server similar to . Alternately the quality center can be implemented by a third party via the Internet .

As shown in the system further includes a cloud illustrating a manufacturer in communication with the quality center through a firewall over the Internet . The manufacturer includes a system of a technician of a manufacturer of mobile stations or its mobile software. As discussed in detail below the system of the technician of the manufacturer communicates with the quality center to access information relating to reported mobile station issues for review and resolution in real time.

The exemplary technique for reporting a mobile station issue including device operation information to a life cycle management tool or the quality center involves at least some execution of programming in the mobile stations and at least some execution of programming of the computer s of the quality center .

As noted earlier and shown in The LCMT comprises a server program running on a computer system and a storage device or database s connected to the computer system . The database s serves as a central repository of various issues related to mobile stations for review and resolution by the carrier or manufacturer including the OEMs of the mobile stations mobile software manufacturers or vendors. For example in the present disclosure the mobile station issues include software crashes hardware malfunctions problems relating to operating system problems relating to hardware and software compatibilities etc. The database s supports a relational database and contains information on the mobile station issues for access and use in a variety of forms such as excel reports issue reports schedules graphs etc. As mentioned above the information stored in the database s includes information entered by customer care representatives retail stores internal and or external software testing personnel users of mobile stations etc. For review and resolution of reported mobile station issues or device defects the manufacturer accesses the information stored in the LCMT through a firewall using an authentication protocol for example Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP via a network. The LDAP is an application protocol for accessing directory structured information over an Internet Protocol IP network. Alternately instead of LDAP over Internet Protocol other types of protocols such as transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and Mobile IPv6 IP version 6 supporting end to end IP connectivity can be used.

As shown in the example of the information on the mobile station issues stored in the LCMT can be accessed by authorized staff of a technical center . The technical center is one of the carrier s technical support facilities providing traditional technical service including review of various reported mobile station issues troubleshooting the issues design and provision of temporary solutions and provision or implementation of solutions provided by outside technical personnel e.g. by an original equipment manufacturer of the mobile station its software manufacturer or vendor etc. . The authorized staff of the technical center may review a reported mobile station issue for quick resolution. That is when the reported mobile station issue is one of the known problems with solutions can be found in a knowledge base of the technical center or the reported mobile station issue can be easily resolved then the staff or a support person or technician of the technical center provides a solution for the reported mobile station issue. However when the staff of the technical center cannot solve the reported mobile station issue then the staff of the technical center provides the LCMT with an indication that the reported mobile station issue cannot be resolved by the staff of the technical center . The LCMT then generates an electronic notification to the manufacturer for prompt review and resolution of the reported mobile station issue. The timing of the electronic notification may be preset by the LCMT and may be changed by an operator from time to time in accordance with quality center policy and or agreement with the manufacturer which is described in detail below.

In the example the mobile stations and can take the form of portable handsets smartphones or personal digital assistants tablet computers or the like although they may be implemented in other form factors. Program applications including an issue report application for collecting and reporting information relating to mobile station issues such as mobile station device information device operation information and diagnostic logs can be configured to execute on many different types of the mobile stations .

As shown in the mobile station includes an issue report application as part of mobile software diagnostic log s APIs and extension APIs . The issue report application is mobile station application software running on the mobile station for reporting a mobile station issue by a user of the mobile station over the mobile communication network to a system of a technician of the manufacturer . Detailed descriptions of the issue report application are provided below in reference to . When a mobile station issue occurs on the mobile station a diagnostic log is internally generated and information relating to the mobile station issue is retrieved or collected via extension APIs . That is via one or more extension APIs information on conditions of one or more hardware or software components of the mobile station can be collected. In the example the issue report application calls the extension APIs to collect the information such as mobile device information device operation information diagnostic log s captured screenshot s etc.

As noted above when the mobile station issue occurs on the mobile station a diagnostic log is created and stored as a log file in a memory of the mobile station for later retrieval. That is the log file is used to selectively collect information on device specific data and various events that are monitored. For example the diagnostic log includes debug data such as trace information logs of data taken from a radio subsystem stack dumps etc. which are often needed for troubleshooting and root cause analysis by the manufacturer e.g. by the original equipment manufacturer of the mobile station or its mobile software manufacturer .

As mentioned above the mobile station further includes extension application programming interfaces APIs . The extension APIs are APIs that are added to the existing APIs in support of implementing the disclosed technique of reporting a mobile station issue. An API is a set of rules and specification that provide for a set of standardized requests that have been defined for a program being called upon. An application uses or invokes various APIs of a mobile operating system running on the mobile station to perform diverse functions and retrieve information relating to hardware and software components of the mobile station e.g. checking battery level hardware and software versions mobile station identification memory usage wireless connectivity status etc. as well as serving as interfaces between different software programs.

In the example extension APIs are defined and used to retrieve information relating to a mobile station issue. More specifically the extension APIs are used to collect at least the following information mobile station device information device operation information diagnostic logs and captured screenshots. The exemplary mobile station device information includes manufacturer model hardware version software version warranty date mobile station identity information e.g. Electronic Serial Number ESN Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID or International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI etc. The exemplary device operation information includes installed applications including name manufacturer and version battery level signal strength wireless operating mobile 1X 3G 4G etc. wireless network system identification e.g. home roaming system identification SID network identification NID primary roaming list internal read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM usage external memory usage e.g. SD cards wireless connectivity status e.g. bluetooth status and WiFi status data throughout speeds information etc. Further screenshots can be captured automatically or manually at about a time of the occurrence of the mobile station issue. For example when the mobile station issue occurs a screenshot can be captured and saved by pressing a pre configured key on the mobile station by the user. Alternately the mobile station can be configured to automatically capture one or more screenshots when a mobile station issue occurs e.g. when a memory or stack dump occurs .

In the example the mobile software of the mobile station or includes a mobile operating system and other software components for enabling mobile communications services and applications. For example the mobile software includes many different software in support of various services and functions such as power management connectivity management such as WLAN Bluetooth WiFi etc. security phone calls text messages mobile data messaging camera location image sensors etc. Also other mobile specific application software are incorporated in the mobile software in support of text multimedia service message application OTA over the air data sync games mobile radio and TV etc.

For the purpose of discussion below it is presumed that a user of a mobile station runs into a crash of a mobile application program while the user is navigating through different menus on the mobile station. Now the user desires to report the crash and have the carrier or the manufacturer of the user s mobile station to investigate the issue and get a software or hardware fix for the crash of the mobile application program as soon as possible. In such a case in accord with the disclosed technique the user can report the mobile station issue or the mobile application crash to the carrier or to a manufacturer or an original equipment manufacturer of the mobile station for rapid review and resolution by launching an issue report application that is installed e.g. preinstalled or downloaded on the mobile station . Thus using the disclosed technique the user does not have to stop by at a retail store or call a customer care representative to report the mobile station issue. Rather the report is made to the carrier and or the manufacturer of the mobile station or its software manufacturer for review and real time troubleshooting.

In referring back to the mobile station includes a set of extension application programming interfaces APIs for reporting a mobile station issue over a wireless communication channel to a life cycle management tool LCMT via a remote diagnostic server . In the example the report includes a user entered description of the mobile station issue and other collected information relating to the mobile application crash is transmitted as data over a mobile communication network to the remote diagnostic server that acts as a front end interface to the LCMT .

The wireless communication channel or a wireless remote diagnostic link can be any wireless data connection established between the mobile station and the remote diagnostic server over the mobile communication network . For example a TCP IP wireless connection short messaging service SMS connection multimedia messaging service MMS connection or other wireless connections that are capable of transporting data from the mobile station to the remote diagnostic server can be established for the disclosed technique. Further the remote diagnostic server can also be implemented by any commercial remote diagnostic system providing remote diagnostic service for technical support including Aetherpal and LogMe In systems.

The remote diagnostic server presents a server interface to client application programs e.g. an issue report application on the mobile station and acts as a front end to the LCMT . The remote diagnostic server on the network receives the wirelessly transmitted report including the description of the mobile station issue mobile station device information device operation information diagnostic log s captured screenshot s etc. And the received information by the remote diagnostic server is sent to the quality center or life cycle management tool LCMT for storing the received information on the mobile station issue. Alternately the remote diagnostic server can format or transform the received data in an appropriate format for transmission to the LCMT and subsequent storage in a storage device or a database connected to the LCMT .

Serving as a central depository of defects and issues relating to mobile stations the LCMT then automatically stores the received information in its storage or database s for tracking managing and facilitating review and resolution of the reported mobile station issue without any input by a human operator. The database s contains among other data information relating to descriptions of mobile station issues and associated collected information from other mobile stations. Further in this example after receiving and storing the information received from the mobile station the LCMT automatically generates and sends an electronic notification e.g. via an e mail a text message or the like to a system of a technician of the manufacturer e.g. an original equipment manufacturer or its mobile software manufacturer for review and resolution in real time. In the example the electronic notification is generated within minutes of receipt of the report of the mobile station issue. Alternately the LCMT can send an electronic notification to the technical center of a carrier of the mobile communication network informing the technical center that a mobile station issue has been received for review and resolution. Based on the description of the mobile station issue and received information staff of the technical center attempts to solve the reported mobile station issue in an effort to speed up the resolution of the reported mobile station issue.

The timing of the electronic notification may be preset by the LCMT and may be changed by an operator from time to time in accordance with quality center policy and or agreement with the manufacturer . For example electronic notifications may be sent essentially immediately when an issue report e.g. a report of a mobile station issue is received at predetermined times e.g. every 30 minutes when a predetermined sufficient number of issues have arisen for a single manufacturer or for a group of manufacturers or when sufficient bandwidth if presently unavailable becomes available or a combination of all of these. In another example certain issues or customers may be given priority and their issues sent to the manufacturer immediately while others are sent to the same or another manufacturer only in batches temporal or number . In a specific example issues such as device crashes may prioritized to repair quicker than game application related issues and thus system resources may be allocated in a more timely manner for the former than the latter. Alternately the electronic notifications can be sent in parallel to both the technical center and the system of the technician of the manufacturer .

Further the LCMT can support generating a report in various types of forms and formats including URLs HTML or XML files documents or exportable images so that a technician of the manufacturer can remotely access over the Internet the information in the LCMT relating to the reported mobile station issue.

The technical center is one of the network service provider s or carrier s technical support facilities providing traditional technical services including review of various reported mobile station issues troubleshooting the issues design and provision of temporary solutions and provision or implementation of solutions provided by outside technical personnel e.g. an original equipment manufacturer of the mobile station its software manufacturer or vendor etc. . In the example discussed after the information relating to the mobile station issue is received by the LCMT an electronic notification is generated and sent to the manufacturer for review and resolution. However in another example the LCMT may generate an electronic notification to the technical center for an initial review of the reported mobile station issue. If the reported mobile station issue cannot be resolved by a support person of the technical center then the LCMT generates and sends an electronic notification to a system of a technician of the manufacturer for review and resolution of the reported mobile station issue in real time. The timing of the electronic notification may be similar to that described above.

After receiving the electronic notification from the LCMT the technician of the manufacturer connects to the LCMT over a secure network link or through a firewall of the carrier using various authentication protocols including the LDAP protocol for access and review of the reported mobile station issue and associated information including diagnostic logs and captured screenshots. Having access to all the information needed for troubleshooting the reported mobile station issue e.g. the user entered issue description automatically collected mobile station device information device operation information diagnostic logs and pertinent screenshots the technician of the manufacturer can now review the reported mobile station issue e.g. the mobile application crash investigate and take appropriate action in real time for resolution of the mobile station issue. Once a solution is identified the technician of the manufacturer can submit the solution via a software patch or revision of code etc. to the LCMT for review and implementation by the carrier.

In the example the staff of the technical center can use various means including the over the air OTA technology to provide the solution to the reported mobile station issue. For example the staff of the technical can initiate an OTA update process for providing a software patch to fix the reported mobile application crash that is the software patch or update is automatically transferred to the mobile station over the air from a remote server on the network and applied to the mobile station without any operator intervention. Alternately if the solution to the reported mobile station issue does not become readily available the manufacturer can provide to the LCMT time estimate to resolve the reported mobile station issue. In turn the carrier or staff of the technical center can notify the user of the mobile station of the time estimate to resolve the reported mobile station issue via telephone calls or electronic notifications such as e mail SMS EMS and MMS messages.

In another implementation for additional security the technician of the manufacturer may be only allowed online access to the information relating to the reported mobile station issue via a duplicate LCMT system within the carrier s network. In this example the duplicate LCMT system includes a copy of the database and the LCMT and synchronization between the two systems is maintained. For example the databases are replicated or synchronized at specific predetermined times such as every minutes between the two systems.

In the example of the graphical interface of the mobile station includes a text window a date icon user selection buttons a report button and a cancel button and a touch type keypad . Using the touch type keypad or the like the user enters a short description of the mobile station issue e.g. a mobile application crash in the text window enters the date and time information of the occurrence of the crash by selecting the date icon and selects any attachments of screenshots not shown . In other implementations the user may be prompted to select one or a series of questions to first narrow the issue in order to direct the issue to the appropriate technician. These questions may be modified from time to time as products manufacturers and issues change the last due e.g. to system updates or problems caused by new applications . In other implementations the issue s may be entered verbally by the user and either transformed into text by a corresponding speech to text program which is then able to be confirmed modified by the user or the sound file stored for transmission when reporting the issue. By selecting the report button the user causes the mobile station to send information relating to the mobile station issue wirelessly over the mobile communication network to the LCMT for access by a technician using a system of a service provider or a manufacturer of the mobile station. That is when the user selects the report button a wireless communication channel is established between the mobile station or and the mobile communication network and the information relating to the mobile application crash is transmitted wirelessly to the life cycle management tool LCMT via the remote diagnostic server as shown in . The information relating to the mobile application crash includes the user entered issue description mobile station device information screenshots captured device operation information diagnostic log s etc.

By selecting the cancel button the user can abort reporting of the mobile station issue and the issue report application saves the collected information including the diagnostic log s and captured screenshot s in memory for a few days.

Those skilled in the art presumably are familiar with the structure programming and operations of the various types of mobile stations. However for completeness it may be useful to consider the functional elements aspects of exemplary mobile stations and at a high level.

For digital wireless communications the handset also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR . Today the handset would be configured for digital wireless communications using one or more of the common network technology types including third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G technologies. The mobile station may also be capable of analog operation via a legacy network technology.

The transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the mobile communication network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile station and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of packet switched wireless connections including Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP . Also each transceiver supports mobile messaging services such as short messaging service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS . The bearer transport resources of the transceiver can support voice communications or can support data communications or sometimes both at the same time. However the signaling resources remain available always for a voice call or data communication. For example the signaling resources are available to tear down air link and network connection at the end of a voice call.

In the example of the mobile station may have a limited number of key but the user interface functions of the display and keypad are implemented via a touchscreen display arrangement. At a high level a touchscreen display is a device that displays information to a user and can detect occurrence and location of a touch on the area of the display. The touch may be an actual touch of the display device with a finger stylus or other object although at least some touchscreens can also sense when the object is in close proximity to the screen. Use of a touchscreen display as part of the user interface enables a user to interact directly with the information presented on the display.

Hence the exemplary mobile station includes a display which the microprocessor controls via a display driver to present visible outputs to the device user. The mobile station also includes a touch position sensor . The sensor is relatively transparent so that the user may view the information presented on the display . A sense circuit sensing signals from elements of the touch position sensor and detects occurrence and position of each touch of the screen formed by the display and sensor . The sense circuit provides touch position information to the microprocessor which can correlate that information to the information currently displayed via the display to determine the nature of user input via the screen.

The display and touch sensor and possibly one or more keys if included are the physical elements providing the textual and graphical user interface for the mobile station . The microphone and speaker may be used as additional user interface elements for audio input and output.

Of course other user interface elements may be used such as a trackball as in some types of PDAs or smart phones. In addition to normal telephone and data communication related input output including message input and message display functions the user interface elements also may be used for display of menus and other information to the user and user input of selections.

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile station in that it controls all operations of the mobile station in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in procedures for generating and sending a report of a mobile station issue and device operation information to the manufacturer of the mobile station or mobile software under consideration here. In the example the mobile station includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings etc. The mobile station may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. In a present implementation the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software short messaging service software issue report application software etc. The memories also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor . The programming stored in the flash type program memory includes implementations of various applications including an issue report application for use by a user of a mobile station and extension APIs for retrieving information from the mobile station.

As outlined above the mobile station includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile station is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for generating collecting and transmitting wirelessly to a life cycle management tool of the carrier information relating to a mobile station issue and other information such as mobile station device information device operation information diagnostic logs etc. for review and resolution by a manufacturer of the mobile station or its software.

The structure and operation of the mobile station as outlined above were described to by way of example only.

As discussed above in addition to functions implemented by the mobile station some functions relating to reporting mobile station issues to a manufacturer may be implemented on computers connected for data communication via the components of the mobile network or a separate network operating as the server or other system elements as shown in earlier drawings such as the life cycle management tool or the technical center . Although special purpose devices may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server programming such as a remote diagnostic server and or a life cycle management tool or server discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk drives etc. for code and data storage and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities or components involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for generating sending over the wireless mobile communication network to the life cycle management tool of the carrier various information relating to mobile station issues including mobile station device information device operation information and diagnostic logs for review and resolution by the manufacturer of a mobile station or its software. Some software code relates to such server or network element functions and is executable by the general purpose computer. In operation the server code is stored in a non transitory storage medium within the general purpose computer platform. At other times however the server software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate general purpose computer system. Similarly software code for applications or other programming for the mobile stations including that for collection and report of information or data relating to a mobile station issue may also be stored in a server and transmitted through the network for storage in memories of the mobile stations.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a user terminal such as a general purpose personal computer a remote diagnostic server a computer system equipped with a life cycle management tool program or a mobile station typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media e.g. RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk or flash drives for mass storage etc for code and data storage and one or more network or communication interfaces or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for user applications extension APIs and or an issue report application. In operation the code is stored within the mobile device. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into an appropriate mobile station system. Execution of such code by a processor of the mobile station enables the mobile station to implement the methodology for reporting an issue that has occurred on the mobile station over the mobile communication network to a life cycle management tool so that a manufacturer of the mobile station or its software can access data about the mobile station issue in real time in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

