---

title: Presence-based content control
abstract: Presence based content access control techniques are described in which presence of users is used as a basis for enforcing content restrictions. In an implementation, applications are registered to receive feedback regarding users' presence in relation to a presentation of content via a computing device. The presence of users is recognized independently of authentication of the users to access user accounts. For example, an imaging sensor such as camera may be employed for recognition of multiple users engaged with the computing device. In addition or alternatively, presence devices associated with users such as badges, key fobs, or access cards may be detected to ascertain the presence of users. Feedback indicative of the one or more users that are recognized may then be supplied to the registered applications. The feedback enables the applications to control the presentation of content by enforcing content restrictions and/or taking other presence based actions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661091&OS=09661091&RS=09661091
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09661091
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140912
---
Computing device users may use accounts to access various computing resources such as web services television movies games music applications and so forth. Authentication of users to prove the users are who they say they are differentiate between users and provide selective access to computing resources is a persistent challenge faced by service providers. Traditionally authentication techniques for a device involve sign in of users to accounts using shared secrets such as passwords and or digital tokens e.g. ticket granting tickets TGTs encrypted blobs cookies or other sign on credentials . Generally a single user account at a time is activated on a particular device and privileges associated with the activated account e.g. the logged on account control the resources that may be accessed. In a traditional approach content restrictions such as aged based restrictions for children established by parents or access security restrictions established for employees by employers e.g. a system administrator are coupled to the logged in account.

However coupling of content restrictions to a logged in account may not be ideal for multiple user scenarios such as for families that prefer to share a single family account viewing of movies or other media content by multiple parties at the same time and or in business collaboration sessions and or meetings among parties having different access levels. For example an under aged user may have access to restricted content when using a parent s account or when watching television programming along with a parent. Likewise protected content may be inadvertently shared with participants in a business collaboration that lack permission to view the protected content when content restrictions are coupled to the logged in account. Thus although account based authentication techniques may be effective there are some drawbacks associated with existing techniques particularly in relation to multiple user scenarios.

Presence based content control techniques are described in which presence of users with respect to a computing device is used as a basis for enforcing content restrictions. In an implementation applications are registered to receive feedback regarding users presence in relation to a presentation of content via a computing device. The presence of one or more users is recognized independently of authentication of the users to access user accounts. For example an imaging sensor such as camera may be employed for recognition of multiple users engaged with the computing device. In addition or alternatively presence devices associated with users such as badges key fobs or access cards may be detected to ascertain the presence of users. Feedback indicative of the one or more users that are recognized may then be supplied to the registered applications. The feedback enables the applications to control the presentation of content by enforcing content restrictions and or taking other presence based control actions.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Access control that relies upon coupling of content restrictions to a logged in account may not be ideal for some scenarios such as for families that prefer to share a single family account viewing of movies or other media content by multiple parties at the same time and or in business collaboration sessions and or meetings among parties having different access levels. In these and other scenarios that control access based on the logged in account restricted content may be inadvertently shared with unauthorized participants viewing the content along with the logged in user or using a shared account.

Presence based content access control techniques are described in which presence of users with respect to a computing device is used as a basis for enforcing content restrictions. In an implementation applications are registered to receive feedback regarding users presence in relation to a presentation of content via a computing device. The presence of one or more users is recognized independently of authentication of the users to access user accounts. For example an imaging sensor such as camera may be employed for recognition of multiple users engaged with the computing device. In addition or alternatively presence devices associated with users such as badges key fobs or access cards may be detected to ascertain the presence of users. Feedback indicative of the one or more users that are recognized may then be supplied to the registered applications. The feedback enables the applications to control the presentation of content by enforcing content restrictions and or taking other presence based actions.

By considering user presence indications the system may be configured to support access control for additional scenarios and for groups of users in multi user interactions. For example when a child walks into a room in which an adult is watching movie the presence of the child may be recognized and parental restrictions may be applied to pause the movie and or present a notification of presence of a restricted user. Other presence based actions are also contemplated such as blacking out the display screen or otherwise hiding restricted content switching to an edited version of the content and or recommending alternate programming to name a few examples. Moreover the enforcement of the parental restrictions may occur while the authorized user e.g. the adult is logged in and without having to sign in or perform authentication of the restricted user e.g. the child to access a corresponding account. Thus content restrictions may be applied relatively quickly in response to recognition of the presence of users in comparison to techniques that rely upon authentication of each user individually and or switching between accounts to enforce content restrictions.

In the discussion that follows a section titled Operating Environment is provided and describes one example environment in which one or more implementations can be employed. Following this a section titled Presence Based Content Control Details describes example details and procedures in accordance with one or more implementations. Last a section titled Example System describes example computing systems components and devices that can be utilized to implement one or more implementations.

The computing device can be embodied as any suitable computing system and or device such as by way of example and not limitation a gaming system a desktop computer a portable computer a tablet or slate computer a handheld computer such as a personal digital assistant PDA a cell phone a set top box a wearable device e.g. watch band glasses etc. and the like. For example as shown in the computing device can be implemented as a television client device a computer and or a gaming system that is connected to a display device to display media content. Alternatively the computing device may be any type of portable computer mobile phone or portable device that includes an integrated display . A computing device may also be configured as a wearable device that is designed to be worn by attached to carried by or otherwise transported by a user. Examples of wearable devices depicted in include glasses a smart band or watch and a pod device such as clip on fitness device media player or tracker. Other examples of wearable devices include but are not limited to badges a key fob an access card a ring an article of clothing a glove or a bracelet to name a few examples. Any of the computing devices can be implemented with various components such as one or more processors and memory devices as well as with any combination of differing components. One example of a computing system that can represent various systems and or devices including the computing device is shown and described below in relation to .

The computer readable media can include by way of example and not limitation all forms of volatile and non volatile memory and or storage media that are typically associated with a computing device. Such media can include ROM RAM flash memory hard disk removable media and the like. Computer readable media can include both computer readable storage media and communication media examples of which can be found in the discussion of the example computing system of .

The computing device may also include a sensor system having one or more sensors and an access manager . The sensor system and one or more sensors are configured to enable collection of a variety of different sensor data. In accordance with techniques described herein sensor data obtained from the sensors may be processed and or combined to recognize presence of users in various ways. A variety of different types of sensors and techniques suitable to recognize presence of users may be employed as discussed. The sensors may also be configured to provide functionality relating to recognition of inputs and or provision of outputs by the computing device .

For instance the operating system and or application may be configured to use information obtained via the sensor system to identify users objects and gestures and cause operations to be performed that correspond to the recognized users objects and or gestures. By way of example the operating system may be configured to receive one or more inputs via touch interaction with a hardware device such as a cursor control device e.g. a mouse such as a mouse a stylus a game controller a remote control e.g. a television remote control a mobile communication device e.g. a wireless phone configured to control one or more operations of the computing device and other devices that involve touch on the part of a user or object. Recognition of the touch inputs may be leveraged by the operating system to interact with a user interface output by the computing device such as to interact with a game an application browse the internet change one or more settings of the computing device and so forth. Touch interaction may involve pressing a button moving a joystick or thumbstick movement across a track pad use of a touch screen of the display device e.g. detection of a finger of a user s hand or a stylus using a touch screen and or controls of a hardware device and so on.

Additionally the operating system may support a natural user interface NUI that is configured to use information obtained via the sensor system to recognize interactions that may not involve touch. The natural user interface NUI may also be used to recognize presence of users in relation to the computing device. For example the sensors may include one or more NUI input devices that may be configured in a variety of ways to detect inputs without having a user touch a particular device such as through use of a microphone and or image capture devices e.g. a camera. The microphone may be configured to support voice recognition to recognize particular utterances e.g. a spoken command as well as to recognize a particular user that provided the utterances. The image capture device s may be configured to support recognition of gestures presented objects images head face tracking facial recognition body movements s and so on. A camera for instance may be configured to include multiple lenses so that different perspectives may be captured and thus determine depth. The different perspectives for instance may be used to determine a relative distance of objects user from a computing device and thus a change in the relative distance.

In addition or alternatively a time of flight camera may be utilized to determine relative distances of objects e.g. arms hands fingers legs torso and head of a user. For instance the time of flight camera may capture images that are analyzed to recognize one or more motions made by a user including what body part is used to make the motion as well as which user made the motion. Different motions may be identified as different gestures by the operating system to initiate corresponding functions. Thus an NUI input device may be leveraged to support depth perception in a variety of different ways. The images captured by one or more image capture devices may also be leveraged to provide a variety of other functionality such as techniques to identify particular users e.g. through facial recognition recognize badges or other objects associated with different users and so on.

The access manager is representative of functionality implemented in software firmware hardware or a combination thereof that is operable to manage and control output of content and user interfaces via a display device associated with the computing device. The access manager may be provided as a standalone component as illustrated as component of the operating system or otherwise. The access manager may control content in accordance with user presence indications and restrictions that are associated with users recognized as being present in the context of a particular interaction scenario. For example the access manager may enable establishment of content restrictions for devices on a device by device basis and or for a group of related devices e.g. multiple devices managed for a family group business group etc. . Content restrictions may include but are not limited to age based restrictions time based restrictions access level restrictions category based restrictions media and or application specific restrictions content source restrictions and ratings based restrictions to name some examples. Different users of a device or device group may be associated with different content restrictions such as via user profiles for different users a restriction table or other data structure. Rather than being associated with user accounts e.g. service accounts the content restrictions may be maintained by the access manager in connection with user identity data utilized to recognize user presence and distinguish between different users. Content restrictions may be device specific and or may be synchronized between multiple devices in a device group.

As mentioned the recognition of user presence may occur based on data collected from various sensors and without each user having to log in to a user account associated with the system. Thus content restrictions associated with one user may be applied even when an account associated with a different user is being utilized to gain access to the content. The access manager may enable parents system administers and or device owners to selectively opt in or opt out of presence based content control as well as to make selections to configure content restrictions and other settings. The set up for presence based content control may occur via an initial device set up sequence via a settings dialog exposed via the access manager via operating system or device settings functionality or otherwise. Details regarding these and other aspects of presence based content control are discussed in relation to the following figures.

The environment further depicts that the computing device may be communicatively coupled via a network to a service provider which enables the computing device to access and interact with various resources made available by the service provider . The resources can include any suitable combination of content and or services typically made available over a network by one or more service providers. For instance content can include various combinations of text video ads audio multi media streams applications animations images webpages and the like. Some examples of services include but are not limited to an online computing service e.g. cloud computing an authentication service web based applications a file storage and collaboration service a search service messaging services such as email and or instant messaging and a social networking service.

Having described an example operating environment consider now example details and techniques associated with one or more implementations of presence based content control.

To further illustrate consider the discussion in this section of example devices components procedures and implementation details that may be utilized to provide presence based content control as described herein. In general functionality features and concepts described in relation to the examples above and below may be employed in the context of the example procedures described in this section. Further functionality features and concepts described in relation to different figures and examples in this document may be interchanged among one another and are not limited to implementation in the context of a particular figure or procedure. Moreover blocks associated with different representative procedures and corresponding figures herein may be applied together and or combined in different ways. Thus individual functionality features and concepts described in relation to different example environments devices components and procedures herein may be used in any suitable combinations and are not limited to the particular combinations represented by the enumerated examples in this description.

As noted above the access manager is representative of functionality operable to manage and control output of content and user interfaces via a display device associated with the computing device such as a display device or an integrated display . In one or more implementations the access manager generates indications of user presence upon which various control actions to control a content presentation may be at least partially based. Various control actions as described throughout this document may be performed directly by the access manager . In addition or alternatively the access manager may be configured to interact with applications to initiate and or enable control actions by the applications responsive to indications of user presence supplied via the access manager .

In one or more implementation the computing device may be configured to transition between account based content control and presence based content control in different contexts. Account based content control and presence based content control may be applied separately and or in various combinations. Accordingly the access manager may initiate transitions from performing control actions to control presentation of content based on a logged in user account to performing control actions to control presentation of content based on the recognition users indications of user presence or vice versa. For example feedback supplied to applications may cause the applications to transition between account based content control and presence based content control. In addition or alternatively the access manager may operate to cause transitions between account based content control and presence based content in response to indications of user presence through interaction with individual applications on a per application basis and or globally for the computing device by using a global setting or otherwise.

The access manager may be configured in various ways to obtain indications of user presence. By way of example the example access manager in is depicted as including a biometric service a user presence service and presence profiles . The biometric service is representative of functionality to obtain and process biometric data regarding users via the camera and or other sensors. Biometric data may include but is not limited to facial images facial recognition patterns voice patterns fingerprints pulse rates and other data. The user presence service is representative of functionality to recognize presence of one or more users in accordance with presence based content control techniques described herein. The recognition may be based upon biometric data and or other presence indicators collected from the camera or other sensors of the computing device.

The user presence service may generate manage maintain or otherwise make use of presence profiles that are associated with users to recognize and distinguish between the different users. Presence profiles represent data in any suitable format that may be used to associate presence indicators detectable by the system to individual users. For example a presence profile may be configured to associate user IDs e.g. a name alias and or ID field for a user with presence indicators that may be used to recognize the user. By way of example and not limitation the presence indicators may include images of the user facial recognition patterns body patterns signatures presence device associations e.g. identifying data for badges or access card and so forth. The presence profiles may additionally include indications regarding the age of users and control data that specifies content authorizations and restrictions established for the users.

In operation data collected via the sensors may be processed to derive indicators associated with different users which may be compared to presence profiles to recognize and distinguish between the different users. One or multiple users may be recognized as being present with respect to a computing device and or content presentation based on the comparison of sensor data to the presence profiles . The recognition may occur independently of authentication of a user s to access a user account log in the user to the system and or activate a logged in account.

Applications may register with the access manager to receive feedback regarding users presence. The feedback may be in the form of presence data that is generated responsive to recognition of the users. The presence data may be configured to convey indications of user presence for recognized users including but not limited indications regarding age and control data e.g. authorizations and or restrictions . Thus control actions may be taken to control a content presentation based at least in part upon the present users and the ages and or restrictions associated with the users. For example the access manager may supply presence data to applications that are registered to receive presence feedback in various ways. For example the access manager may send notifications having presence data to register applications in response to recognition of users and when a group of users recognized as present changes. In addition or alternatively access manager may post presence data to an established location or otherwise make the presence data accessible applications for retrieval by applications.

By way of example consider now representative scenarios in which content is controlled based on user presence in accordance with techniques described herein that are depicted and discussed in relation to . In particular is a diagram depicting generally at a presence based content control scenario in accordance with one or more implementations. Here a computing device is represented as being used to output a content presentation . In connection with the content presentation a camera may be employed to recognize the presence of users viewing the content presentation . For example user and user are represented as being with a field of view of the camera and therefore recognized as being present. Note that one of users may be logged in to gain access to the presented content whereas the other one of the users may be recognized without being authenticated or logged in. The users in this example may represent adults who are accessing and watching a movie from a streaming video service. Control data associated with the users may permit the user to watch the movie. Accordingly the users are unrestricted with respect to the content presentation and therefore the access manager and or application being used to output the content allow playback of the movie to proceed.

When presence of a user that is restricted is detected though the access manager and or applications may apply one or more actions to control the presentation of content. This scenario is represented in . In particular is a diagram depicting generally at details of a presence based content control scenario when a restricted user is detected in accordance with one or more implementations. Here another user is depicted as entering into the field of view during the content presentation described in relation to . In this example the user may represent a child of the adults. Parental controls and or age based restrictions may be established by the child s parents or otherwise. Accordingly control data associated with the user may place content restrictions upon with respect to the content presentation . As such the user is restricted with respect to the content presentation and various control actions may be taken in response to detecting presence of the user .

By way of example and not limitation shows a notification as being output to block the content presentation . In addition playback of the movie may be paused. The notification may provide an indication that a restricted user is present as well as other information. A link or other suitable instrumentality may also be provided that is operable to obtain additional information explore options for other content or versions of the movie authorize playback change settings and so forth. A variety of other control actions are also contemplated examples of which are discussed above and below. Note that control actions such as display of the notification may be taken substantially in real time as presence of a restricted user is recognized. Thus the playback of content may be paused or otherwise interrupted right when the child walks into the room e.g. into the field of view . In this way the child is not exposed to inappropriate and unauthorized material. It should also be noted that restrictions may be enforced for the child based on presence recognition even if the child is logged in to and using a parent or family account that is authorized to access content that is restricted for the child based on parental controls. In other words the presence based content restrictions are separated from account based authorizations.

Additional aspects of presence based control techniques are discussed in relation to example procedure of . The procedures described in this document may be implemented utilizing the environment system devices and components described herein and in connection with any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof. The procedures may be represented as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more entities and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In at least some embodiments the procedures can be implemented by way of a suitably configured computing device such as the example computing device of that includes or otherwise makes use of an access manager sensors applications and or operating system .

For example an access manager as described previously may be configured to enable applications to register to receive feedback related to presence of users. In one approach one or more application programming interfaces API may be exposed to facilitate registration of applications with the access manager communication of feedback and other data between the access manager and applications and other interactions related to presence based content control. The access manager may also be configured in various ways to recognize user presence. For example presence indicators obtained via various sensors may be compared with profiles associated with different users as described previously. In addition recognizing presence of users may include interpreting image data obtained via a camera associated with the computing device to detect the one or more users. Further recognition of presence may be based at least in part upon indications obtained from presence devices associated with the multiple users configured to the provide the indications such as access cards badges key fobs and other suitable wearable devices . In an implementation presence devices may be visually recognized by a camera or other sensors. For example a bar code numeric code pattern or other indicators of presence devices may be detected by camera based scanning and used for user recognition. In another approach presence devices may be configured to transmit presence indicators that enable user recognition for receipt by a sensor in the form of a corresponding receiver. For example a beacon signal that may be used to identify a presence device and therefore presence of a corresponding user may be communicated via a wireless connection such as via a Wi Fi connection Near Field Communication NFC Bluetooth connection or other suitable communication channel. A variety of other examples are also contemplated.

Thus one or more users may be recognized as being present based on the analysis of presence indicators and or other sensor data. As noted presence may be separate and distinct from authentication of users to access accounts. Thus users that are recognized as present may or may not be logged in to accounts via the computing device. In response to detecting the presence of users the access manager may communicate feedback regarding users that are present to registered applications. The feedback may take various forms and be supplied in any suitable way. For example notification messages may be configured to contain presence data and sent to individual applications. In another approach a broadcast message may be sent out collectively to registered applications. Applications may also be configured to poll the access manager to obtain the feedback.

Generally speaking the feedback is configured to enable the registered applications to perform access control actions to control presentation of content via the computing device based on recognition of the presence of users. For example feedback may include presence data including but not limited to indications regarding ages of the users that are recognized and control data indicative of authorizations and or restrictions associated with the users that are recognized. Thus content restrictions associated with the users that are recognized may be ascertained using the control data . In addition or alternative global restrictions may be set for a computing device such as age based restriction set by parental controls. In this example indications regarding ages may be sufficient to enable selection and application of access control actions in dependence upon the global restrictions set for the computing device.

The presence data may be employed as an alternative to basing content control decisions solely on a logged in user account. Presence indications may also be employed in conjunction with authorization and other information associated with logged in user account to make determinations regarding control actions to take for different scenarios. In any event one or more control actions may be selected based upon indications of user presence and the selected control actions are then performed to control a presentation of content in accordance with to content restrictions associated with the recognized user s . A variety of different control actions are contemplated some further examples of which are discussed in relation to the following figure.

Then one or more actions to control the presentation of content are performed responsive to ascertaining the access restrictions associated with the recognized user block . Examples of control actions may include but are not limited to one or more of interrupting the presentation block such as by pausing turning off the display switching channels etc. outputting a notification regarding the restricted user block an example of which is the notification discussed in relation to causing a black out of the presentation block switching to a presentation of unrestricted content block such as an edited version of a program or a different channel outputting suggestions for alternate content block such as a different provider program channel or applications or filtering the content block to remove restricted items age inappropriate content portions of a collection of content items e.g. images or filter search results to name a few examples. Control actions including the enumerated actions and or other actions may be performed individually and or in various combinations of multiple actions. Control actions may be perform responsive to determining that one or more recognized users are restricted from viewing presented content. At least some actions may be applied while a restricted user is present and then stopped or reverted when the user is no longer present to restore the presentation of content. For example if the content is interrupted or blocked the content may remain interrupted or blocked as long as a restricted user is present. However when the restricted user leaves the room the access manager may detect that the user is no longer present and take action to restore the presentation of content to the previous state e.g. playback resumes without restriction.

Access permissions are obtained for the multiple users that are recognized with respect to a presentation of content via the computing device block and then presentation of content is controlled in accordance with the access permissions obtained for the multiple users block . Here an access manager may operate to ensure the each of the multiple users is permitted to view the content that is being presented. For example access permissions may be reflected via presence data that is generated for recognized users as previously discussed. Presence data may be configured using presence profiles that are maintained for different users. As long as restricted users are not detected the content presentation may be output without interruption or restrictions. On the other hand if one or more users are restricted control actions may be taken to apply specified restrictions during the content presentation. For example for the family movie the movie may be blocked portions of the movie may be edited or skipped an alternative movie may be suggested and so forth. In the business meeting example content may be redacted or some material may be removed from the presentation selected data or slides may be skipped restricted users may be prompted to leave the meeting during some time periods and so forth. In any case content may be controlled in accordance with the access permissions established for multiple users and independent of which of the multiple users currently is logged in via the computing device.

Having considered example details and procedures for presence based content control consider a discussion of an example system in accordance with one or more implementations.

The example computing device as illustrated includes a processing system one or more computer readable media and one or more I O interfaces that are communicatively coupled one to another. Although not shown the computing device may further include a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components one to another. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures such as a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a universal serial bus and or a processor or local bus that utilizes any of a variety of bus architectures. A variety of other examples are also contemplated such as control and data lines.

The processing system is representative of functionality to perform one or more operations using hardware. Accordingly the processing system is illustrated as including hardware elements that may be configured as processors functional blocks and so forth. This may include implementation in hardware as an application specific integrated circuit or other logic device formed using one or more semiconductors. The hardware elements are not limited by the materials from which they are formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein. For example processors may be comprised of semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs . In such a context processor executable instructions may be electronically executable instructions.

The computer readable media is illustrated as including memory storage . The memory storage represents memory storage capacity associated with one or more computer readable media. The memory storage may include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . The memory storage may include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive and so on as well as removable media e.g. Flash memory a removable hard drive an optical disc and so forth . The computer readable media may be configured in a variety of other ways as further described below.

Input output interface s are representative of functionality to allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices using various input output devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone for voice operations a scanner touch functionality e.g. capacitive or other sensors that are configured to detect physical touch a camera e.g. which may employ visible or non visible wavelengths such as infrared frequencies to detect movement that does not involve touch as gestures and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card tactile response device and so forth. Thus the computing device may be configured in a variety of ways as further described below to support user interaction.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software hardware elements or program modules. Generally such modules include routines programs objects elements components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The terms module functionality and component as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The features of the techniques described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

An implementation of the described modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. The computer readable media may include a variety of media that may be accessed by the computing device . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include computer readable storage media and communication media. 

 Computer readable storage media refers to media and or devices that enable storage of information in contrast to mere signal transmission carrier waves or signals per se. Thus computer readable storage media does not include signal bearing media transitory signals or signals per se. The computer readable storage media includes hardware such as volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media and or storage devices implemented in a method or technology suitable for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules logic elements circuits or other data. Examples of computer readable storage media may include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage hard disks magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other storage device tangible media or article of manufacture suitable to store the desired information and which may be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media may refer to signal bearing media that is configured to transmit instructions to the hardware of the computing device such as via a network. Communication media typically may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier waves data signals or other transport mechanism. Communication media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

As previously described hardware elements and computer readable media are representative of instructions modules programmable device logic and or fixed device logic implemented in a hardware form that may be employed in some embodiments to implement at least some aspects of the techniques described herein. Hardware elements may include components of an integrated circuit or on chip system an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a complex programmable logic device CPLD and other implementations in silicon or other hardware devices. In this context a hardware element may operate as a processing device that performs program tasks defined by instructions modules and or logic embodied by the hardware element as well as a hardware device utilized to store instructions for execution e.g. the computer readable storage media described previously.

Combinations of the foregoing may also be employed to implement various techniques and modules described herein. Accordingly software hardware or program modules including the operating system applications access manager and other program modules may be implemented as one or more instructions and or logic embodied on some form of computer readable storage media and or by one or more hardware elements . The computing device may be configured to implement particular instructions and or functions corresponding to the software and or hardware modules. Accordingly implementation of modules as a module that is executable by the computing device as software may be achieved at least partially in hardware e.g. through use of computer readable storage media and or hardware elements of the processing system. The instructions and or functions may be executable operable by one or more articles of manufacture for example one or more computing devices and or processing systems to implement techniques modules and examples described herein.

As further illustrated in the example system enables ubiquitous environments for a seamless user experience when running applications on a personal computer PC a television device and or a mobile device. Services and applications run substantially similar in all three environments for a common user experience when transitioning from one device to the next while utilizing an application playing a video game watching a video and so on.

In the example system multiple devices are interconnected through a central computing device. The central computing device may be local to the multiple devices or may be located remotely from the multiple devices. In one embodiment the central computing device may be a cloud of one or more server computers that are connected to the multiple devices through a network the Internet or other data communication link.

In one embodiment this interconnection architecture enables functionality to be delivered across multiple devices to provide a common and seamless experience to a user of the multiple devices. Each of the multiple devices may have different physical requirements and capabilities and the central computing device uses a platform to enable the delivery of an experience to the device that is both tailored to the device and yet common to all devices. In one embodiment a class of target devices is created and experiences are tailored to the generic class of devices. A class of devices may be defined by physical features types of usage or other common characteristics of the devices.

In various implementations the computing device may assume a variety of different configurations such as for computer mobile and television uses. Each of these configurations includes devices that may have generally different constructs and capabilities and thus the computing device may be configured according to one or more of the different device classes. For instance the computing device may be implemented as the computer class of a device that includes a personal computer desktop computer a multi screen computer laptop computer netbook and so on.

The computing device may also be implemented as the mobile class of device that includes mobile devices such as a mobile phone portable music player portable gaming device a tablet computer a multi screen computer and so on. The computing device may also be implemented as the television class of device that includes devices having or connected to generally larger screens in casual viewing environments. These devices include televisions set top boxes gaming consoles and so on.

The techniques described herein may be supported by these various configurations of the computing device and are not limited to the specific examples of the techniques described herein. This is illustrated through inclusion of the access manager on the computing device . The functionality represented by the access module and other modules applications may also be implemented all or in part through use of a distributed system such as over a cloud via a platform as described below.

The cloud includes and or is representative of a platform for resources . The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware e.g. servers and software resources of the cloud . The resources may include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the computing device . Resources can also include services provided over the Internet and or through a subscriber network such as a cellular or Wi Fi network.

The platform may abstract resources and functions to connect the computing device with other computing devices. The platform may also serve to abstract scaling of resources to provide a corresponding level of scale to encountered demand for the resources that are implemented via the platform . Accordingly in an interconnected device embodiment implementation of functionality described herein may be distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part on the computing device as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

