---

title: Force simulation finger sleeve using orthogonal uniform magnetic field
abstract: An apparatus and method for providing feedback to a user of an electronic device is provided. The apparatus includes a magnetic user input device, a touch panel display configured to display application output and to receive application input, a series of solenoids positioned on each side of or wrapped around the touch panel display, the series of solenoids configured to output a magnetic field, and a processor programmed to execute an application that displays the application output via the touch panel display and in response to input received from the touch panel, drives a separate current to each solenoid of the series of solenoids to apply a force against the magnetic user input device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489049&OS=09489049&RS=09489049
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09489049
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140826
---
The present disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for providing feedback to a user of a finger sleeve when the user provides input to an electronic device.

Electronic devices provide feedback to a user in number of different forms. Common forms of feedback are visual audio and haptic. The visual feedback is commonly displayed on a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . The audio feedback is commonly transmitted through a speaker of the electronic device or remotely via a pair of ear buds that may be wiredly or wirelessly connected to the electronic device. The haptic feedback is commonly transmitted via a vibration motor. The vibration motor may be oriented in such a manner as to transmit vibrations in different directions on an X Y plane parallel to a face of the electronic device.

While the vibrations transmitted via the vibration motor provide feedback they do not provide a force in relationship to an item the user may be manipulating on the LCD.

Accordingly an apparatus and a method thereof that provides force against an input device used on a LCD or another display type in response to an item being manipulated on the display is desired.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an apparatus for providing physical resistance feedback to a user of an electronic device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus for providing feedback to a user of an electronic device is provided. The apparatus includes a magnetic user input device a touch panel display configured to display application output and to receive application input a series of solenoids positioned on each side of the touch panel display the series of solenoids configured to output a magnetic field and a processor programmed to execute an application that displays the application output via the touch panel display and in response to input received from the touch panel drives a separate current to each solenoid of the series of solenoids to apply a force against the magnetic user input device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of providing feedback to a user of an electronic device is provided. The method includes displaying application output and receiving application input on a touch panel display and receiving a force against a magnetic user input device from a magnetic field driven about the touch panel display in response to an application responding to the displayed application output and the received application input. The magnetic field is driven by a series of solenoids positioned on each side of the touch panel display or below the touch panel display.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

Detailed descriptions of various aspects of the present disclosure will be discussed below with reference to the attached drawings. The descriptions are set forth as examples only and shall not limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The detailed description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure are provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

Unless defined differently all terms used in the present disclosure including technical or scientific terms have meanings that are understood generally by a person having ordinary skill in the art. Ordinary terms that may be defined in a dictionary should be understood to have the meaning consistent with their context and unless clearly defined in the present disclosure should not be interpreted to be excessively idealistic or formalistic.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include communication functionality. For example an electronic device may be a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook PC a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD electronic clothes electronic braces an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a smart home appliance with communication functionality. A smart home appliance may be for example a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washer a dryer an air purifier a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a gaming console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder an electronic picture frame and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a medical device e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device Computed Tomography CT device an imaging device or an ultrasonic device a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device a naval electronic device e.g. naval navigation device gyroscope or compass an avionic electronic device a security device an industrial or consumer robot and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be furniture part of a building structure an electronic board electronic signature receiving device a projector various measuring devices e.g. water electricity gas or electro magnetic wave measuring devices and or the like that include communication functionality.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be any combination of the foregoing devices. In addition it will be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art that an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the foregoing devices.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure include an apparatus and method providing weighted physical feedback to a user of an electronic device.

Referring to a network environment includes an electronic device . The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an Input Output I O interface a display a communication interface solenoids and or the like.

The bus may be circuitry that connect the foregoing components and allow communication between the foregoing components. For example the bus may connect components of the electronic device so as to allow control messages and or other information to be communicated between the connected components.

The processor may for example receive instructions from other components e.g. the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface the solenoids and or the like interpret the received instructions and execute computation or data processing according to the interpreted instructions.

The memory may for example store instructions and or data that are received from and or generated by other components e.g. the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface the solenoids module and or the like . For example the memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and or the like. Each of the foregoing programming modules may include a combination of at least two of software firmware or hardware.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and or the like that may be used in executing operations or functions implemented in other programming modules such as for example the middleware the API the application and or the like. The kernel may provide an interface for allowing or otherwise facilitating the middleware the API the application and or the like to access individual components of electronic device .

The middleware may be a medium through which the kernel may communicate with the API the application and or the like to send and receive data. The middleware may control e.g. scheduling load balancing and or the like work requests by one or more applications . For example the middleware may control work requests by one or more applications by assigning priorities for using system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and or the like of electronic device to the one or more applications .

The API may be an interface that may control functions that the application may provide at the kernel the middleware and or the like. For example the API may include at least an interface or a function e.g. command for file control window control video processing character control and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include a Short Message Service SMS application a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an exercise amount application a blood sugar level measuring application and or the like an environmental information application e.g. an application that may provide atmospheric pressure humidity temperature information and or the like an instant messaging application a call application an internet browsing application a gaming application a media playback application an image video capture application a file management application and or the like. In addition to or as an alternative to the application may be an application that is associated with information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. electronic device . As an example the application that is associated with the information exchange may include a notification relay application that may provide the external electronic device with a certain type of information a device management application that may manage the external electronic device and or the like.

As an example the notification relay application may include a functionality that provides notification generated by other applications at electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application the email application the health care application the environmental information application the instant messaging application the call application the internet browsing application the gaming application the media playback application the image video capture application the file management application and or the like to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . In addition to or as an alternative to the notification relay application may provide for example receive notification from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and may provide the notification to a user.

As an example the device management application may manage enabling or disabling of functions associated with least a portion of an external electronic device e.g. the external electronic device itself or one or more components of the external electronic device in communication with electronic device controlling of brightness or resolution of a display of the external electronic device an application operated at or a service e.g. a voice call service a messaging service and or the like provided by the external electronic device and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure as an example the application may include one or more applications that are determined according to a property e.g. type of electronic device and or the like of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an mp3 player the application may include one or more applications related to music playback. As another example if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may be a health care related application. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application that is preloaded at the electronic device an application that is received from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device a server and or the like and or the like.

The I O interface may for example receive instruction and or data from a user. The I O interface may send the instruction and or the data via the bus to the processor the memory the communication interface the solenoids and or the like. For example the I O interface may provide data associated with user input received via a touch screen to the processor . The I O interface may for example output instructions and or data received via the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface the solenoids module and or the like via an I O device e.g. a speaker a display and or the like . For example the I O interface may output voice data e.g. processed using the processor via a speaker.

The display may display various types of information e.g. multimedia text data and or the like to the user. As an example the display may display a Graphical User Interface GUI with which a user may interact with the electronic device .

The communication interface may provide communication between electronic device and one or more external electronic devices e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . For example the communication interface may communicate with the external electronic device by establishing a connection with a network using wireless or wired communication. As an example wireless communication with which the communication interface may communicate may be at least one of Wi Fi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WDCMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or the like Infrared Data Association IrDA technology and or the like. As an example wired communication with which the communication interface may communicate may be at least one of for example Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 Plain Old Telephone Service POTS Ethernet and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. As an example the telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things a telephone network and or the like. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol a physical layer protocol and or the like for communicating between electronic device and an external electronic device may be supported by for example at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel the communication interface and or the like.

The solenoids module may for example process at least a part of information received from other components e.g. the processor the memory the I O interface the communication interface and or the like and provide various information services and or the like to the user in various manners. For example the solenoids module may control via the processor or independently at least some of the functions of the electronic device to communicate or connect to another electronic device e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . will provide additional information regarding the solenoids module .

Referring to an electronic device includes a touch panel display and a series of solenoids and mounted on each edge of the touch panel display but is not limited thereto. Alternatively the solenoids and may be wrapped or pass under the touch panel display thus only two solenoids are enough to generate two orthogonal uniform magnetic fields. The touch panel display displays visual output of the electronic device . The touch panel display also include a touch panel that detects touch input using capacitive resistive infrared ultrasonic methods and the like. The touch panel may receive input from a user finger and or a stylus not illustrated .

The solenoids and are mounted to provide a magnetic force parallel to the surface of the touch panel display . That is power applied to the solenoids and provides an orthogonal uniform magnetic field. By altering the amount of power to each of the solenoids and the amount of force applied against a magnet mounted on an end of any of finger sleeve and is varied as the magnet touches different points on the touch panel display . Alternatively as the magnet touches the same points on the touch panel display to simulate some change in an environment such as wind running water or an explosion. Thus as a user moves a hand with at least one of finger sleeves and touching the display away from a starting point toward end point the user may be made to feel an increasing force against at least one finger in the at least one of the finger sleeves and .

Conversely as the user moves the hand back to the starting point from the end point the user may be made to feel a decreasing force against the at least one finger in the at least one of the finger sleeves and .

The amount of force exerted against the magnet in the at least one of finger sleeves and may be changed depending on the direction in which the at least one finger in the at least one of finger sleeves and moves in relation to the starting point . Thus the starting point may be found at any point in the touch panel display and may be moved towards the end point . The end point may likewise be placed at any point on the touch panel display .

While a magnet is illustrated on finger sleeve the magnet is found on each of the finger sleeves and . The magnet is not limited to placement on a finger sleeve but may be mounted on any device for example fingertips of a glove a stylus and or a prosthetic device.

Referring to a solenoid is illustrated. The solenoid contains a first end and a second end . It will be understood that the magnetic field may be changed by driving electrical power for example a first end may receive a negative charge and second end may receive a positive charge or vice versa. It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that changing the current direction the poles of the magnetic fields generated by the solenoid will be reversed.

Referring to a magnetic field flowing in one direction is illustrated. The magnetic field the magnetic flux density vector B may be computed from 

Mathematically the force on a small magnet having a magnetic moment m due to a magnetic field B is where the gradient is the change of the quantity m B per unit distance and the direction is that of maximum increase of m B.

Therefore with the magnet of a known moment installed at the tip of the finger sleeves and at a fixed orientation the only variable the electronic device need to control is the current I supplied to the solenoids and .

In the same manner another uniform magnetic field may be added in an orthogonal direction to a first solenoid. Such a device may generate two orthogonal forces at the magnet at a tip of the finger sleeves and . By basic vector mathematics the electronic device may generate arbitrary force at any direction parallel to the touch panel display .

Referring to a guitar of a guitar application executed on the touch panel display of the electronic device is illustrated. The guitar includes a body and a neck . The guitar also contains guitar strings which extend from the bridge to the guitar head not illustrated containing tuning pegs not illustrated for tightening and loosening the guitar strings . The guitar application receives input via strumming or other manipulation of the guitar strings via the touch panel display in order to simulate an actual guitar. In response to the input the electronic device outputs an associated sound via a speaker not shown .

According to an embodiment of the instant application a finger sleeve placed on the guitar string may be moved to a position . The movement of the finger sleeve to the position will cause the guitar string to move from a starting point to an end point . In addition to displaying the movement on the touch panel display the guitar application is integrated with the solenoids and via a magnetic field Application Programming Interface API to provide resistance i.e. force against the movement. Each guitar string is programmed to provide a separate amount of resistance depending on the thickness of each guitar string . Thus depending on the thickness of each guitar string which is manipulated by the finger sleeve the user will experience a different amount of resistance to the movement of the guitar string . In this manner the guitar application not only simulates the sound that occurs when one of the guitar string is manipulated but also the feeling of actually moving one of the guitar string . In this manner it will be understood that the guitar strings each have an initial resistance and that resistance will increase as for example the guitar string is moved further from the starting point .

It will be understood that in the guitar application the strings are manipulated along the y axis and therefore the only solenoids that need to be manipulated are those controlling the magnetic field along the y axis for example solenoids and . However the magnetic field API may be provide along both the X axe and Y axe as well as a combination thereof.

Referring to a sling shot of a popular game application displayed on the touch panel display of the electronic device is illustrated. The game application has a user launch an icon using the slingshot . As with any slingshot a rubber band is pulled back in order to launch a projectile. In the game application a user wearing a finger sleeve draws a rubber band back diagonally in a direction till the finger sleeve is in a position and the rubber is in position . As the finger sleeve pulls the rubber band back a greater force is exerted against the magnet in the finger sleeve . In this manner the user experiences a force exerted against them as the user of an actual slingshot would feel while pulling back on the rubber band of the slingshot. When the user removes the finger sleeve from the touch panel display it will be understood that the icon will be shot in a direction opposite of the direction as the rubber band retracts.

As the direction is diagonal roughly a angle the game application via the magnetic field API will determine the amount of force applied against the magnet in the finger sleeve and translate that into the same amount of current I applied to solenoids and and also to solenoids and .

However it will also be understood when the direction is used roughly a 75 angle the amount of force required on the X axis will be greater than that required on the Y axis. Therefore the solenoid and would receive a greater increase in the current I as the rubber band is pulled back than the increase in current I to the solenoid and to counteract the magnet of the finger sleeve .

While the direction of pulling a rubber band illustrated by directions and depict movement toward the left hand side of the electronic device . However the direction in which the finger sleeve is pulled across the touch panel display is not limited thereto and the current I applied to each of the solenoids and may be varied to provide resistance in the direction opposite the user moves the finger sleeve as required by any particular application.

Conversely there may case where an application that wishes to pull the finger sleeve in a certain direction and the current I applied to each of the solenoids and may be reversed in order to provide such a feature.

Referring to an application such as the guitar application or the game application is integrated with the touch panel display and the solenoids and via a touch panel display Application Program Interface API and a magnetic field API respectively. The touch panel display API is connected to a touch panel display driver that transmits display information to and receives touch input from the touch panel display .

The magnetic field API is connected to a magnetic field driver for driving separate currents I to each of the solenoids and depending on force that needs to be applied to the magnet on the finger sleeve in a particular direction on the touch panel display .

Hereinafter as an example the application is the guitar application as in . The application in execution wishes to display the guitar string . The application sends a command via the touch panel display API to display the string on the guitar string on the touch panel display .

Upon the user touching the guitar string on the touch panel display the touch panel display API receives input via the touch panel display driver that movement is occurring on the touch panel display . This touch input is transferred to the application . The application determines that the touch input is at a coordinate that coincides with the location of the guitar string and that touch input received via the touch panel display API indicates that that the movement is in a particular direction. The application determines that the guitar string must be redisplayed to compensate for the movement and also increase a force against the magnet on the finger sleeve . In response the application via the magnetic field API increases the force in a direction opposite the direction in which the movement of the magnet on the finger sleeve is travelling.

The magnetic field API based on these instructions changes the current I to each of the solenoids and . For example the magnetic field API could be instructed to increase the force by a particular percentage in a particular direction from a particular X Y coordinate on the touch panel display . See .

The magnetic field API in response determines the change in current I that needs to be made to each of the solenoids and . Once those changes are determined the magnetic field API transmits this information the magnetic field driver which adjusts the current I to each of the solenoids and . In response the user in this example feels a greater force against the magnet of the finger sleeve as the guitar string is moved.

While the above example illustrates a guitar application with respect to a single guitar string it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that any object displayed on touch panel display is capable of having a force applied against the object in any direction with any given amount of force when the user of the electronic device wears the finger sleeve and attempts to move the object on the touch panel display . Thus the developer of the application integrates the touch panel display with the solenoids and via the respective touch panel display API and magnetic field API.

Referring to hardware may be for example a part or the entire parts of the electronic device . Referring to the hardware may include one or more Application Processors AP a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input module a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator a motor and or the like.

The AP may control one or more hardware or software components that are connected to AP perform processing or computation of data including multimedia data and or the like. As an example the AP may be implemented as a System on Chip SoC . The AP may include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may transmit and receive data in communications between the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . As an example the communication module may include one or more of a cellular module a Wi Fi module a Bluetooth module a GPS module a NFC module a Radio Frequency RF module and or the like.

The cellular module may provide services such as for example a voice call a video call a Short Messaging Service SMS internet service and or the like via a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM and or the like . As an example the cellular module may differentiate and authorize electronic devices within a communication network using a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card e.g. the SIM card . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least a part of the functionalities of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of multimedia control functionality.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication interface and or the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . As an example the cellular module may be implemented as SoC.

Although illustrates components such as the cellular module e.g. CP the memory the power management module as components that are separate from the AP according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP may include or be integrated with one or more of the foregoing components e.g. the cellular module .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP the cellular module e.g. CP and or the like may process instructions or data received from at least one of non volatile memory or other components by loading in volatile memory. The AP the cellular module the communication interface and or the like may store at non volatile memory at least one of data that is received from at least one of other components or data that is generated by at least one of the other components.

Each of the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may for example include one or more processors that may process data received or transmitted by the respective modules. Although illustrates the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module and the NFC module as separate blocks according to various embodiments of the present disclosure any combination e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may be included in an Integrated Chip IC or an IC package. For example at least some of the processors corresponding to the respective the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may be implemented as a single SoC. For example a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to Wi Fi module may be implemented as a single SoC.

The RF module may for example transmit and receive RF signals. Although not shown the RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and or the like. The RF module may include one or more components for transmitting and receiving Electro Magnetic EM waves e.g. in free space or the like such as for example conductors or conductive wires. Although illustrates that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module and the NFC module are sharing one RF module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may transmit and receive RF signals via a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card implementing a SIM and may be configured to be inserted into a slot disposed at a specified location of the electronic device. The SIM card may include a unique identifier e.g. Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the internal memory may be for example at least one of volatile memory e.g. Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM or Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM non volatile memory e.g. One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable Read Only Memory PROM Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM mask Read Only Memory ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . As an example the external memory may be a flash drive e.g. Compact Flash CF drive Secure Digital SD micro Secure Digital micro SD mini Secure Digital mini SD extreme Digital xD Memory Stick and or the like . The external memory may be operatively coupled to electronic device via various interfaces. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include recording devices or recording media such as for example Hard Disk Drives HDD and or the like.

The sensor module may measure physical environmental properties detect operational states associated with electronic device and or the like and convert the measured and or detected information into signals such as for example electric signals or electromagnetic signals. As an example the sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an accelerometer E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G an RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a luminosity sensor K a Ultra Violet UV sensor M and or the like. The sensor module may detect the operation state of the electronic device and or measure physical properties and convert the detected or measured information into electrical signals. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may also include for example an electrical nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an eye scanning sensor e.g. iris sensor not shown a fingerprint sensor and or the like. The sensor module may also include control circuitry for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key an ultrasonic input device and or the like.

As an example the touch panel may detect touch input using capacitive resistive infrared ultrasonic methods and or the like. The touch panel may also include a touch panel controller not shown . As an example a capacitive type touch panel may detect proximity inputs e.g. hovering input in addition to or as an alternative to physical touch inputs. The touch panel may also include a tactile layer. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the touch panel may provide haptic feedback to the user using the tactile layer.

As an example the digital pen sensor may be implemented using methods identical to or similar to receiving a touch input from a user or using a separate detection sheet e.g. a digitizer .

As an example the ultrasonic input device may be a device configured to identify data by detecting using a microphone e.g. microphone ultrasonic signals generated by a device capable of generating the ultrasonic signal. The ultrasonic input device may detect data wirelessly.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive user input from an external device e.g. a network computer or server connected to the electronic device using the communication module .

The display module e.g. display may include a panel a hologram device a projector and or the like. As an example the panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED display and or the like. As an example the panel may be configured to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be implemented as a single module. The hologram device may provide a three dimensional image. For example the hologram device may utilize the interference of light waves to provide a three dimensional image in empty space. The projector may provide image by projecting light on a surface e.g. a wall a screen and or the like . As an example the surface may be positioned internal or external to electronic device . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the display module may also include a control circuitry for controlling the panel the hologram device the projector and or the like.

The interface may include for example one or more interfaces for a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector or a D subminiature D sub and or the like. As an example the interface may be part of the communication interface . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example one or more interfaces for Mobile High definition Link MHL Secure Digital SD MultiMedia Card MMC Infrared Data Association IrDA and or the like.

The audio module may encode decode sound into electrical signal and vice versa. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a portion of audio module may be part of the I O interface . As an example the audio module may encode decode voice information that is input into or output from the speaker the receiver the earphone the microphone and or the like.

The camera module may capture still images and or video. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. front sensor module rear sensor module and or the like not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash e.g. Light Emitting Diode flash LED xenon lamp and or the like not shown .

The power management module may manage electrical power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit charger IC a battery gauge a fuel gauge and or the like.

As an example the PMIC may be disposed in an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. The charging method for the electronic device may include wired or wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery may prevent excessive voltage or excessive current from a charger from entering the electronic device and or the like. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the charger IC may include at least one of a wired charger IC or a wireless charger IC. As an example the wireless charger IC may be a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type an electromagnetic wave type and or the like. As an example the wireless charger IC may include circuits such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier and or the like.

As an example the battery gauge may measure a charge level a voltage while charging a temperature of battery and or the like.

As an example the battery may supply power to the electronic device . As an example the battery may be a rechargeable battery a solar battery and or the like.

The indicator may indicate one or more states e.g. boot status message status charge status and or the like of the electronic device or a portion thereof e.g. AP . Motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

Solenoids provide a force against a magnet the force being driven parallel to a surface of the display .

Although not shown the electronic device may include one or more devices for supporting mobile television mobile TV e.g. a Graphics Processing Unit GPU and or the like. The devices for supporting mobile TV may support processing of media data compliant with for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and or the like.

It will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure according to the claims and description in the specification may be realized in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

Any such software may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium stores one or more programs software modules the one or more programs comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors in an electronic device cause the electronic device to perform a method of the present disclosure.

Any such software may be stored in the form of volatile or non volatile storage such as for example a storage device like a Read Only Memory ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not or in the form of memory such as for example Random Access Memory RAM memory chips device or integrated circuits or on an optically or magnetically readable medium such as for example a Compact Disk CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD magnetic disk or magnetic tape or the like. It will be appreciated that the storage devices and storage media are various embodiments of non transitory machine readable storage that are suitable for storing a program or programs comprising instructions that when executed implement various embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly various embodiments provide a program comprising code for implementing apparatus or a method as claimed in any one of the claims of this specification and a non transitory machine readable storage storing such a program.

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described as examples only and are noted intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should be understood as to include any and all modifications that may be made without departing from the technical spirit of the present disclosure.

