---

title: Methods and systems for automatic analysis of conversations between customer care agents and customers
abstract: The technical solution under the present disclosure automatically analyzes conversations between users by receiving a training dataset having a text sequence including sentences of a conversation between the users; extracting feature(s) from the training dataset based on features; providing equation(s) for a plurality of tasks, the equation(s) being a mathematical function for calculating value of a parameter for each of the tasks based on the extracted feature; determining value of the parameter for tasks by processing the equation(s); assigning label(s) to each of the sentences based on the determined value of the parameter, a first label being selected from a plurality of first labels, and a second label being selected from a number of second labels; and storing and maintaining with the database a pre-defined value of the parameter, first labels, conversations, second labels, a test dataset, equation(s), and pre-defined features.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645994&OS=09645994&RS=09645994
owner: Conduent Business Services, LLC
number: 09645994
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141209
---
The presently disclosed embodiments relate to customer relationship management CRM systems and more particularly to methods and systems for automatically analyzing conversations between social CRM agents and customers.

Customer Relationship Management CRM relates to various models and technologies for managing a company s relationships with its existing past and future customers. Some related art CRM systems automate organize and synchronize marketing sales customer service and technical support. Customer engagement can be a critical component of social CRM solutions wherein customer care agents contact customers via social media and resolve their issues by engaging in asynchronous conversations with the customers. Some CRM systems integrate social media sites like Twitter LinkedIn and Facebook to track and communicate with customers to share their opinions and experiences with a company products and services. The social media is a platform that connects millions of users together and allows them to exchange and share common interests topics or events. These platforms had been developed for private usage among users and later emerged as a new communication and marketing vector for the companies. Social media has grown at a consistent rate and has become very relevant in the context of brand information.

Related art CRM solutions systems provide a mechanism for the customer care agents to engage in conversations with customers to address their issues via telephone calls. Two new communication channels that were later used by CRM teams include synchronous online chat and emails provided by social media. CRM solutions need to constantly monitor the conversations mainly for two components of the conversation in order to provide an effective engagement. First the status of the issue issue status tracking that is relevant to the conversation relates to customer satisfaction. Second the nature of the dialogues dialogue act tracking engaged in by the agents relate to the effectiveness of the customer care agents and the conversation.

The issue status tracking is significant because interaction between a customer and a customer care agent takes place over a long period of time during which the agent needs to return to the issues multiple times and address the customer s concern. Since one agent is usually involved with thousands of users at the same time the agent needs to return to only the open issues. The agent should not spend time checking the resolved issues. Given the large number of customers and their data it is important that the process of figuring out which issues are open and which are closed is automated. The dialogue act problem is important because it determines the nature of the dialogue that agents engage in with the customer. For example the dialogue can be a simple greeting message an acknowledgement or a more involved statement that addresses the issue in a technical way. This dialogue act component helps CRM solutions to determine the effectiveness of the customer care agents and of conversations.

Typically machine learning methods such as supervised classification techniques are employed to analyze these conversations that can track and measure effectiveness of these conversations in terms of issue resolution issue status and the nature of the dialogues that customer care agents engage in i.e. dialogue act . However due to the very sparse and informal nature of these social media conversations existing machine learning techniques are not very accurate in terms of detecting issues status and dialogue act.

Usually to determine the status of an issue a supervised machine learning based technique is employed to learn a model from the issues whose statuses are already identified and the statuses of the incoming issues are identified based using the learnt model. Similarly a model separate from the issues tracking model is learned to address the dialogue act problem. However intuitively these two tasks are closely related and they share similarities in feature space i.e. most of the issues that are resolved end with customer thanking for agent s help. Therefore it makes more sense to learn these two tasks simultaneously. That is labels assigned to issue resolution task or status issue task can help to learn a better model for dialogue act task or nature of the conversation task and vice versa. In this disclosure a multi task learning method is disclosed which learns from such two tasks that share features simultaneously and show that the learning of two tasks simultaneously can improve the accuracy for both tasks.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for automatically analyzing conversations between multiple users. The method includes receiving by a data collecting module a training dataset having a natural language text sequence including a number of sentences of a conversation between the users. Each of the sentences includes a number of words. The method further includes extracting by a feature extracting module at least one feature from the training dataset based on a number of pre defined features stored in a database. The method furthermore includes providing by a parameter determining module at least one equation for each of a plurality of tasks. The at least one equation being a mathematical function capable of calculating value of at least one parameter for each of the tasks based on the extracted at least one feature for the tasks. The method also includes determining by the parameter determining module a value of the at least one parameter for each of the tasks by processing the at least one equation of the tasks. The method further includes assigning by a labeling module one or more labels to each of the sentences based on the determined value of the at least one parameter. A first label of the one or more labels being selected from a plurality of first labels and a second label of the one or more labels being selected from a plurality of second labels. The method also includes storing and maintaining in a database with the database a pre defined value of the at least one parameter the first labels a number of conversation the second labels a test dataset the at least one equation and the pre defined features. The test dataset includes a pre defined set of sentences including at least one word.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a conversation analysis system for automatically analyzing conversations between a number of users. The conversation analysis system includes a data collecting module configured to receive a training dataset. The training dataset includes a natural language text sequence including a number of sentences of a conversation between the users. Each of the sentences includes a number of words. The conversation analysis system also includes a database configured to store pre defined value of at least one parameter a number of pre defined features a number of conversations a number of first labels a number of second labels and a test dataset. The test dataset includes a pre defined set of sentences including at least one word. The conversation analysis system further includes a feature extracting module configured to extract at least one feature from each of the plurality of sentences based on the pre defined features stored in the database. The conversation analysis system further includes a parameter determining module configured to provide at least one equation for each of a number of tasks. The at least one equation being a mathematical function capable of calculating value of at least one parameter for each of the tasks based on the extracted at least one feature for the tasks. The parameter determining module is further configured to determine value of each of the at least one parameter for each of the tasks by processing the at least one equation for each of the tasks. The conversation analysis system also includes a labeling module configured to assign one or more labels to each of the plurality of sentences based on the determined value of the at least one parameter. A first label of the one or more labels being selected from the first labels and a second label of the one or more labels being selected from the second labels stored in the database.

A yet another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for automatically analyzing conversations between a customer care agent and a plurality of customers. The method includes receiving by a data collecting module a training dataset having a natural language text sequence including a number of sentences of a conversation between the customer agent and the customers. Each of the sentences includes a number of words. The method also includes extracting by a feature extracting module at least one feature from the training dataset based on a number of pre defined features stored in a database. The method further includes providing by a parameter determining module at least one equation for each of a number of tasks. The at least one equation being a mathematical function capable of calculating value of at least one parameter for each of the tasks based on the extracted at least one feature for the tasks. The at least one equation includes a common parameter for each of the tasks. The method also includes determining by the parameter determining module a value for the at least one parameter for each of the tasks by processing the at least one equation of the tasks. The method further includes assigning by a labeling module one or more labels to each of the plurality of sentences based on the determined value of the at least one parameter. A first label of the one or more labels is selected from a plurality of first labels and a second label of the one or more labels is selected from a plurality of second labels. The method also includes evaluating by an evaluating module the determined value of the at least one parameter by comparing the determined value of the at least one parameter with a pre defined value of the at least one parameter stored in the database. The pre defined value of the at least one parameter is obtained based on a test dataset. The method further includes storing and maintaining in a database with the database the pre defined value of the at least one parameter the plurality of first labels a plurality of conversation the plurality of second labels the at least one equation and a test dataset wherein the test dataset includes a pre defined set of sentences including at least one word.

A further embodiment of the present disclosure provides a conversation analysis system. The conversation analysis system includes a database configured to store and maintain a plurality of conversations a pre defined value of the at least one parameter a plurality of pre defined features a plurality of first labels a plurality of second labels at least one equation and a test dataset the test dataset including a pre defined set of sentences including at least one word. The system also includes a data collecting module configured to receive a training dataset having a natural language text sequence including a plurality of sentences of a conversation between a plurality of users each of the plurality of sentences includes a number of words. The system further includes a feature extracting module configured to extract at least one feature from the training dataset based on the plurality of pre defined features stored in the database. The system also includes a parameter determining module configured to provide at least one equation for each of at least two tasks the at least one equation being a mathematical function capable of calculating value of at least one parameter for each of the at least two tasks based on the extracted at least one feature for the at least two tasks the at least one equation including a common parameter for each of the at least two tasks. The parameter determining module is also configured to determine value of the at least one parameter for each of the at least two tasks by processing the at least one equation for each of the at least two tasks. The system also includes a labeling module configured to assign one or more labels to each of the plurality of sentences based on the determined value of the at least one parameter. A first label of the one or more labels being selected from the plurality of first labels and a second label of the one or more labels being selected from the plurality of second labels. Further the system includes an evaluating module configured to evaluate determined value of the at least one parameter by comparing the determined value of the at least one parameter with the pre defined value of the at least one parameter stored in the database. The pre defined value of the at least one parameter is obtained based on a test dataset. The test dataset includes a pre defined set of sentences including at least one word.

A yet another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a computer readable medium and computer program instructions recorded on the computer readable medium executable by a processor for performing the steps of receiving a training dataset having a natural language text sequence including multiple sentences of a conversation between the users each of the sentences includes a number of words extracting at least one feature from the training dataset based on a number of pre defined features stored in a database providing at least one equation for each of a number of tasks the at least one equation being a mathematical function capable of calculating value of at least one parameter for each of the tasks based on the extracted at least one feature for the tasks determining value of the at least one parameter for each of the tasks by processing the at least one equation of the tasks assigning one or more labels to each of the plurality of sentences based on the determined value of the at least one parameter wherein a first label of the one or more labels is selected from a plurality of first labels and a second label of the one or more labels is selected from a plurality of second labels and storing and maintaining in the database a pre defined value of the at least one parameter the plurality of first labels a plurality of conversation the plurality of second labels a test dataset the at least one equation and the plurality of pre defined features wherein the test dataset includes a pre defined set of sentences including at least one word.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the figures. Preferred embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosure not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations in the description that follows.

In this disclosure the term Customer Relationship Management CRM refers to use of various models and technologies for managing a company s relations with their existing past and future customers. The term CRM system refers to a system for automating organizing and synchronizing marketing sales customer service and technical support in a company. The CRM system may be include software hardware or combination of hardware and software. As used herein a social CRM system refers to a CRM system which entails customer care agents to contact customers via social media and resolve their issues by having asynchronous conversations with them over the social media. The term social media may refer to a platform that connects millions of users together and allows them to exchange and share common interests topics or events. Some social CRM systems integrate social media sites like Twitter LinkedIn and Facebook to track and communicate with customers sharing their opinions and experiences with a company products and services.

As used herein a training dataset includes a natural language text sequence including a number of sentences of a conversation that happen between a number of users such as between a customer care agent and a number of customers. The term sentence refers to a sequence of words in a particular language. The term feature or feature vector defines a property of an entity such as a sentence a person or an object. Hereinafter the term feature and feature vector are used interchangeably.

The term equation refers to a mathematical function capable of calculating value of one or more variables. Further the term task refers to a problem which needs to be solved. In the present disclosure a task may refer to a problem to determine a status of an issue in a conversation and a problem to determine the nature of the conversation. As used herein a test dataset includes a number of sentences of a conversation that occurs between a customer care agent and a number of customers using a social media.

Further a conversation analysis system may be a combination or software hardware firmware or combination of these for analyzing the conversation between different users or between a customer care agent and a number of customers. The conversation analysis system is further intended to include or otherwise cover all software or computer programs capable of performing the various heretofore disclosed determinations calculations etc. for the disclosed purposes. For example exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling processors to implement the disclosed processes. Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any and all currently known related art or later developed non transitory recording or storage mediums such as a CD ROM DVD ROM hard drive RAM ROM floppy disc magnetic tape cassette etc. that record or store such software or computer programs. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover such software computer programs systems and or processes provided through any other currently known related art or later developed medium such as transitory mediums carrier waves etc. usable for implementing the exemplary operations disclosed below.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments the disclosed computer programs can be executed in many exemplary ways such as an application that is resident in the memory of a device or as a hosted application that is being executed on a server and communicating with the device application or browser via a number of standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP XML SOAP REST JSON and other sufficient protocols. The disclosed computer programs can be written in exemplary programming languages that execute from memory on the device or from a hosted server such as BASIC COBOL C C Java Pascal or scripting languages such as JavaScript Python Ruby PHP Perl or other sufficient programming languages.

Some of the disclosed embodiments include or otherwise involve data transfer over a network such as communicating various inputs over the network. The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs a personal area network PAN a storage area network SAN a home area network HAN a campus area network CAN analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual private network VPN an enterprise private network EPN Internet a global area network GAN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. Network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice data communications. In one implementation the network includes a cellular telephone network configured to enable exchange of text or SMS messages.

The client and server devices are intended to include or otherwise cover all software or computer programs capable of performing the various heretofore disclosed determinations calculations etc. for the disclosed purposes. For example exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling processors to implement the disclosed processes.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a method that allows automatic analysis of logs of conversations between a social CRM Customer Relationship Management agent and customers to identify the current state of issue resolution as well as overall engagement effectiveness of conversation in terms of customer satisfaction etc. A conversation may include a natural language sequence of sentences that are exchanged between a plurality of users such as a customer care agent and customer s .

Typically for a task such as a task to determine the status of an issue a supervised machine learning based technique is employed to learn a model from the issues whose statuses are already identified. In addition the statuses of the incoming issues are identified based using the learned model. Similarly a separate model is used for another task such as a task to determine labels for dialogue act problem or statements analysis . However intuitively these two tasks are closely related. That is labels assigned to issue resolution task can help to learn a better model for dialogue act task and vice versa. In present disclosure multi task learning methods and systems are disclosed to learn from such two tasks that may share features simultaneously. Further learning these two tasks simultaneously can improve the accuracy for both the tasks. The proposed method combines a linguistic framework and machine learning framework of labeling sequences to automatically label messages sentences in the conversation.

The present disclosure provides a learning framework for sequence classification that can take multiple labeled sequences and learn from them simultaneously. Further a framework for conversation classification is disclosed that can identify a customer s issue status as well as dialogue act or nature of the conversation of the interaction between a customer and a customer care agent.

The present disclosure further discloses a method that not only exploits the label dependency but also learns the multiple tasks simultaneously by explicitly sharing the parameters corresponding to the label dependency factor. In the disclosed method a model for each task i.e. issue status determining task and nature of conversation determining task. Each model or equation includes a set of factors for its own task with one additional one factor for the label dependency part. The parameters corresponding to the label dependency factor may remain common among all the tasks. An unshared version is also disclosed herein.

The conversation analysis system may be part of a customer relationship management CRM system. The conversation analysis system is configured to collect record and or analyze the conversations that happen between the users A N using the social media .

In an embodiment the conversation analysis system is configured to analyze the conversation that happen between a customer care agent and a number of customers A N as shown in system B in . Further the conversation analysis system is configured to analyze the conversation as a training dataset and at sentence level. In some embodiments the training dataset includes a natural language text sequence including a number of sentences phrases clauses clich s and similar text sequences of a conversation that happen between the users A N or between a customer care agent and a number of customers . The sentence in turn may include multiple words of a particular language. Examples of the natural language may include such as but not limited to English Hindi French Spanish and so forth. The conversation analysis system defines at least one equations for analyzing the conversation. This is discussed further with reference to .

The database is configured to store conversations pre defined value of at least one parameter a number of pre defined features a number of first labels a number of second labels and a test dataset. The conversation includes a number of statements having multiple words phrases clauses clich s and similar text sequences. The feature may define a property associated with an entity such as a sentence. For example number of words in a sentence is a feature of the sentence.

The data collecting module is configured to collect or receive a training dataset. The training dataset may be received from the social media such as Twitter. The training dataset may be a subset of the one or more conversations to be analyzed. Further the training dataset may include a natural language text sequence including one or more sentences of a conversation that happen or happened between the users A N and or between the customer care agent and the customers A N. Further each of the one or more sentences may include a number of words. Examples of the language may include but not limited to English Hindi French and so forth.

Further the feature extracting module is configured to extract at least one feature from each of the one or more sentences of the conversation being analyzed. The features may be extracted based on the pre defined features stored in the database . For each of the one or more sentences in a conversation the feature extracting module is configured to automatically associate a set of features to it. Further the feature extracting module may associate the set of features with the sentences based on the feature feature type and feature description of the feature as mentioned in Table 1.

For example the feature extracting module may associate or extract the at least one feature from the one or more sentences by removing stop words masking usernames masking uniform resource locators URLs masking emails masking numbers masking emoticons as positive neutral or negative. The feature extracting module may associate a vector of features to each of the one or more sentences in the conversation.

Further the conversation analysis system A is configured to analyze the conversation for multiple tasks simultaneously. The tasks may include but not limiting to a task for determining a status of an issue identified in the conversation and a task for determining nature of the conversation. Hereinafter the task for determining the status of an issue may be referred as a status issue task or a Task 1 interchangeably. Further herein the task for determining the nature of the conversation may be referred a dialogue act or task 2. The parameter determining module is configured to provide or define at least one equation for each of the tasks. The at least one equation is a mathematical function capable of calculating value of at least one parameter for each of the tasks based on the extracted or associated features for the tasks.

For description purpose two tasks are described here but the model or equations may be extended for any number of tasks. Let x x x . . . x be the sequence of entities e.g. words in a sentence that need to be labeled. Let y y y . . . y and z z z . . . z be two sets of labels i.e. first label and second label for task x. The two set of labels when combined with x represent two tasks. The y is the label sequence of first task or task 1 while z is the label sequence for the second task or task 2 . Therefore the training dataset is a triplet of x y z .

An equation 1 is defined for the task 1 and an equation 2 is defined for the task 2. Exemplary equations for the two tasks are shown below as the equation 1 and equation 2 respectively. Hereinafter equation may be referred as model.

The parameter determining module is further configured to determine value of the each of the one or more parameter vectors or parameters for each of the tasks. The parameters may be a property specific to a feature of the tasks. The parameter determining module may determine the values of the at least one parameter by processing the multiple equations such as the equation 1 and equation 2 simultaneously. In an embodiment the equation 1 and equation 2 are processed for a pre defined number of iterations. The parameter determining module may be configured to optimize the values of the at least one parameter by performing alternate optimization. In alternate optimization one step to optimize the parameters of the equation 1 and then take one step to optimize parameters of the equation 2. The whole process of the alternate optimization may be repeated for a fixed number of iteration. Further during the optimization step the parameters are optimized to maximize the log likelihood l and l of the equation 1 and equation 2 or models 1 2 respectively on the training dataset.

In some embodiments the standard optimization method such as gradient descent method is used. Further since both the equations 1 and 2 models 1 2 share some parameter i.e. label dependency factor hence alternate optimization is done. However both the likelihood functions l and l are convex in themselves but alternate optimization technique is not guaranteed to converge.

In an embodiment an unshared version is guaranteed to converge since there is no parameter sharing. In the equations of the unshared version there may not be any common parameter i.e. is different for different tasks.

The labeling module is configured to assign one or more labels to each of the one or more sentences being analyzed based on the determined value of the at least one parameter. The one or more labels may include a first label and a second label. The first label is selected from a number of first labels and the second label is selected from the second labels. The first labels may be used to label the parameters of the status issue task or task 1 . The second labels may be used to label the parameters of the dialogue act task or task 2 . The first labels and the second labels are defined in Table 2 and Table 3 respectively. The Table 2 includes the first labels and reflects the status of conversation or one or more sentences exchanged between the customer care agent and the customers A N. The categories mentioned in the Table 2 gives information about how the problem is open by the customer goes at the time of the conversation. Since the status of the conversation can be updated after receiving each conversation one or more sentences the labeling module may label each statement that is part of the conversation.

As shown below the Table 3 includes the second labels or categories also referred as Dialogue act labels for labeling the one or more sentences based on the nature of the conversation. A person ordinarily skilled in the art will appreciate that the label categories in the Table 2 and Table 3 are not the exhaustive categories for first labels and second labels respectively and may include more or less categories.

The labeling module may assign the second label by selecting one of the second labels from the Table 3 based on a linguistic theory of the conversation analysis. The second label s indicate the nature of each of the one or more sentences of the conversation. Further the one or more sentences in the conversation may convey several information that cover several second categories or labels as defined in Table 3. For example in a conversation or one or more sentences a customer care agent can respond to a complaint by i greeting the customer ii then apologizing for the problem and iii requesting more detailed information concerning the problem. Accordingly the labeling module will analyze the one or more sentences e.g. tweet segment in a conversation that happens over Twitter social networking website and may assign three labels i.e. Greeting Apology and Request respectively.

Turning now to the evaluating module is configured to evaluate the determined value of the at least one parameter of the task 1 and task 2 by comparing the determined value of the at least one parameter with the pre defined value of the at least one parameter store in the database . The pre defined value of the at least one parameter may be obtained based on the test dataset. In an embodiment the test dataset includes a set of sentences that are analyzed using conventional models for conversation analysis.

Further the conversation analysis system A or B may include software hardware firmware and combination of these. Further the conversation analysis system A B can be unitary system or may be distributed over various devices such as but not limiting to servers in the network .

At step a training dataset is received by the data collecting module of the conversation analysis system . The training data set may include a natural language text sequence including one or more sentences of a conversation that happen between the customer care agent and the customers A N. Each of the plurality of sentences include a number of words. For the sake of description only analysis of the conversation between the customer care agent and the customers A N are described but the disclosed methods and systems may be used for analysis of any type of conversation that may happen between one or more users.

At step the feature extracting module may extract or assign at least one feature from to the one or more sentences of the training dataset. Further the feature extracting module may extract the features based on the pre defined features as mentioned in the Table 1 above.

Further at step at least one equations for each of the tasks i.e. task 1 and task 2 are provided by the parameter determining module . Exemplary equations 1 and 2 are described above. Further equation 1 and 2 include various parameter vectors and feature functions. At step the parameter determining module may determine value of the at least one parameter based on the extracted features. Further the values of the parameters are determined by processing the equation 1 and equation 2. In an embodiment the processing of the equations 1 2 may take in multiple steps performed for a fixed number of iterations.

Then at step the labeling module may assign one or more label s to each of the sentences of the conversation which is being analyzed based on the determined value of the parameters as determined in the step . In some embodiments the one or more labels include a first label and a second label. Further the first label may be assigned from the first labels shown in Table 2 and the second label may be assigned from the second labels shown in the Table 3.

At step the evaluating module may evaluate the determined value of the at least one parameter by comparing the determined value of the at least one parameter with the pre defined value of the at least one parameter stored in the database. The pre defined value of the at least one parameter are obtained based on the test dataset. In an embodiment the test dataset includes a set of sentences that are analyzed using conventional models for conversation analysis.

In an embodiment the parameter determining module may be configured to optimize the determined value of the at least one parameter by performing alternate optimization. In alternate optimization one step to optimize the parameters of the equation 1 and then take one step to optimize parameters of the equation 2. The whole process of the alternate optimization may be repeated for a fixed number of iteration. Further during the optimization step the parameters are optimized to maximize the log likelihood l and l of the equations 1 2 or models 1 2 respectively on the training dataset.

In some embodiments the standard optimization method such as gradient descent method is used. Further since both the equations 1 2 or models 1 2 share some parameter i.e. label dependency factor hence alternate optimization is done. However both the likelihood functions l and l are convex in themselves but alternate optimization technique is not guaranteed to converge.

In an exemplary scenario the data collecting module may collect the conversation data which is exchanged between various users such as the customer care agent and the customers A N over the social media such as the Twitter social networking website herein after Twitter . The conversations are then may be stored at the database by the data collecting module for further processing. For example a training dataset may include 2780 statements or tweet segments of the conversation on the Twitter for processing. The training dataset is then analyzed for feature extraction by the feature extracting module . The feature extracting module analyses the 2780 statements sentence by sentence or at twitter segment level . The features are extracted or assigned based on the features stored in the database . The exemplary features are mentioned above in Table 1. In an exemplary scenario the sentences are processes by lowering the case of all the words in the conversation by removing stop words by masking username passwords URLs emails numbers emoticons etc. The emoticons may be masked as positive neutral or negative.

The equations 1 and 2 are defined for the task 1 and task 2 and are then processed using the extracted features. Further the multiple tasks i.e. task 1 and task 2 have same feature vectors and they only differ in labels. The values of the parameters is determined by processing the equation 1 and equation 2. Then the values of the parameters may be optimized by alternate optimization.

The computing system can include one or more processors such as a processor . The processor can be implemented using a general or special purpose processing engine such as for example a microprocessor microcontroller or other control logic. In this example the processor is connected to a data pathway e.g. buses Ethernet or other communication medium. Although only one processor is shown in certain embodiments the computing system may include more processors in an expanded or distributed design.

The computing system can also include a main memory preferably random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . The processor accepts instructions and data from the memory and performs various data processing functions of the system. These data processing functions may include but are not limited to providing graphical format objects via a graphical user interface creating a graphical representation for a plurality of attributes defining values of attributes based on selection of the graphical representation executing operation on the computing system based on graphical representation and values of attributes and so forth. The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit ALU that performs arithmetic and logical operations and a control unit that extracts instructions from the memory and decodes and executes them calling on the ALU when necessary. The main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor . The memory stores a variety of data received by the computing system and computed by the various data processing functions of the computing system . The data may include for example values of attributes graphical format objects graphical representations and so forth.

The computing system may likewise include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the data pathway for storing static information and instructions for processor . Also the memory preferably contains an operating system which executes on the processor . The operating system performs basic tasks that include recognizing input sending output to output devices keeping track of files and directories and controlling various peripheral devices.

The computing system may also include information storage mechanism which may include for example a media drive and a removable storage interface . The media drive may include a drive or other mechanism to support fixed or removable storage media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a CD or DVD drive R or RW or other removable or fixed media drive. A storage media may include for example a hard disk floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk CD or DVD or other fixed or removable medium that is read by and written to by media drive . As these examples illustrate storage media may include a computer readable storage medium having stored there in particular computer software or data.

In alternative embodiments information storage mechanism may include other similar instrumentalities for allowing computer programs or other instructions or data to be loaded into the computing system . Such instrumentalities may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface such as a program cartridge and cartridge interface a removable memory for example a flash memory or other removable memory module and memory slot and other removable storage units and the interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from removable the storage unit to the computing system .

The computing system can also include a communications interface that enables the computing system to access other computers and resources on a communication network. The communications interface can be used to allow software and data to be transferred between computing system and external devices. Examples of the communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet or other NIC card a communications port such as e.g. a USB port a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a channel . This channel may carry signals and may be implemented using a wireless medium wire or cable fiber optics or other communications medium. Some examples of a channel include a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link a network interface a local or wide area network and other communications channels. What is important is that the various computers and peripherals can interact to perform various document services.

The computing system further includes input output devices such as a keyboard and a mouse that enables a user to enter data and instructions into the computing system a display device that enables the user to view the available information and a printer that enables the user to print any data for his reference. Alternatively input output devices may include a touch sensitive display that enables a user to enter data and instructions into the computing system as well as to view the available information.

In this document the terms computer program product and computer readable medium may be used generally to refer to media such as for example the memory the storage device the storage unit or signal s on the channel . These and other forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor for execution. Such instructions generally referred to as computer program code which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings when executed enable computing system to perform features or functions of embodiments of the disclosed subject matter.

In an embodiment where the elements are implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer readable medium and loaded into the computing system using for example removable storage drive the drive or the communications interface . The control logic in this example software instructions or computer program code when executed by processor causes processor to perform the functions of the disclosed subject matter as described herein.

An aspect of the present disclosure allows real time computation of content based metrics for the conversation that happen between the customer care agent s and the customer s or users .

Another aspect of the present disclosure not only exploits the label dependency factor but also learns the multiple tasks simultaneously by explicitly sharing the parameters corresponding to the label dependency factor. In the proposed methods one model is learnt for each task. Each model may include a set of factors for its own task with one additional factor for the label dependency part. The parameters corresponding to the label dependency factor is common among all tasks.

A yet another aspect of the present disclosure provides an unshared version model where there is no parameter sharing but only label dependency is there.

A further aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for learning from shared tasks for sequence labeling tasks.

In an embodiment the determined value of the parameters is evaluated. The values may be evaluated by comparing the results of the disclosed systems or models with state of the art baselines and report results. Accuracy may be used as a metric for evaluation. Further a test dataset may be used for evaluating the accuracy of the values of the parameters or labeling. Accuracy may be defined as fraction of correctly labeled tokens sentences in sequence present in bigrams present in the test set.

It will be understood that the modules and the databases referred to in the previous sections are not necessarily utilized together in a single conversation analysis system. Rather these modules are merely exemplary of the various modules that may be implemented within a conversation analysis system. Further it will be understood that the conversation analysis module may include more modules than the ones described in this disclosure without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

