---

title: Laterally injected light-emitting diode and laser diode
abstract: A p-type superlattice is used to laterally inject holes into an III-nitride multiple quantum well active layer, enabling efficient light extraction from the active area. Laterally-injected light-emitting diodes and laser diodes can enable brighter, more efficient devices that impact a wide range of wavelengths and applications. For UV wavelengths, applications include fluorescence-based biological sensing, epoxy curing, and water purification. For visible devices, applications include solid state lighting and projection systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09059356&OS=09059356&RS=09059356
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09059356
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141120
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 907 814 filed Nov. 22 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to light emitting diodes LEDs and laser diodes LDs and in particular to laterally injected LEDs and LDs for deep ultraviolet UV and visible applications.

Some of the roadblocks that have limited successful commercialization of deep UV devices are high dislocation densities nonradiative defects and particularly low hole concentrations and poor hole injection. Large activation energies and therefore poor efficiency of the Mg acceptor in GaN and AlGaN has delayed maturity of these devices. The resistivities of bulk p GaN and p AlGaN are high. Activation energy of Mg dopants and concentration of compensating defects also increase with x in AlGaN presenting a challenge for the growth of low resistance material for shorter wavelength applications. LEDs often employ a p GaN capping layer as a less resistive contact layer but at the expense of severe optical absorption losses at UV wavelengths. The removal of the p GaN capping layer and significant improvement in p type doping and hole injection will need to be achieved in order to realize high performance deep UV devices.

Superlattices SLs comprise two semiconductor materials with different band gaps which are deposited alternately on each other to form a periodic structure in the growth direction. Recently SLs have been investigated as replacements for bulk AlGaN to increase the hole concentration within the p type layer. Spontaneous polarization is inherent in the nitride materials grown in the 0001 direction due to their wurtzite crystal structure. This allows unique device structures to be developed. Power devices such as high electron mobility transistors HEMTs have relied upon the AlGaN GaN heterostructure which forms a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG at the interface. The 2DEG is a thin highly conductive lateral channel from which HEMTs can greatly benefit. Superlattices of alternating p type nitride layers enjoy a similar carrier accumulation at the interfaces producing parallel sheets where band bending increases the ionization of acceptors and therefore increases the concentration of holes forming a two dimensional hole gas 2DHG . See P. Kozodoy et al. 74 3681 1999 E. F. Schubert et al. 69 3737 1996 and K. Kumakura et al. 39 2428 2000 .

Superlattice structures have been integrated into GaN based LEDs and LDs to replace the bulk p type AlGaN with some success. See S. N. Lee et al. 287 554 2006 S. A. Nikishin et al. 42 L1362 2003 T. Nishida et al. 42 2273 2003 and S. A. Nikishin et al. 44 7221 2005 . Measured resistivities of these p type SLs are similar to that of p GaN layers but the Hall measurement only determines lateral resistivity. See P. Kozodoy et al. 74 3681 1999 and S. A. Nikishin et al. 42 L1362 2003 . The measured or estimated vertical resistivity of various p SL stacks is typically greater than the horizontal resistivity. See S. A. Nikishin et al. 42 L1362 2003 C. Y. Hu et al. 298 815 2007 and M. Z. Kauser et al. 831 E3.39.1 2005 . Although development of p type SLs has increased the spatial carrier concentration compared to bulk p type material there is still a high vertical resistivity to overcome suggesting that the conventional vertical LED or LD design may be limiting forward progress in this area.

A number of groups have reported lateral LEDs and LDs in III V systems other than nitrides. See V. Ryzhii et al. 90 2654 2001 V. Ryzhii et al. 92 4459 2002 S. M. Komirenko et al. 47 169 2003 M. Cecchini et al. 82 636 2003 A. North et al. 35 352 1999 E. H. Sargent 44 147 2000 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 563 902. Other groups have reported the use of a p SL structure in a nitride LED or LD but their designs still employ a vertically injected p i n structure where current flow is perpendicular to the layers in the superlattice. See M. Shatalov et al. 5 082101 2012 S. N. Lee et al. 287 554 2006 S. A. Nikishin et al. 42 L1362 2003 T. Nishida et al. 42 2273 2003 G. Kipshidze et al. 93 1363 2003 T. Nishida et al. 78 399 2001 S. Nakamura et al. 76 22 2000 S. Nakamura et al. 72 211 1998 and S N. Lee et al. 88 111101 2006 .

Therefore a need remains for a laterally injected III nitride LED or LD having a p SL hole injection region.

The present invention is directed to a laterally injected light emitting device comprising a p type superlattice layer have a slanted end facet for laterally injecting holes into an III nitride multiple quantum well active layer deposited on the slanted end facet and an n type layer for injecting electrons into the III nitride multiple quantum well active layer thereby generating light emission from the active layer when the electrons and holes combine. In general the invention applies to AlGaInN alloy systems comprising one or more Group III element such as aluminum gallium or indium and nitrogen. The p type superlattice has a spatially modulated chemical composition that enables high lateral hole conductivity. For example the p type superlattice can comprise p type AlGaN and p type AlGaN where compositions x and y are different and material compositions can range from GaN to AlN. The p type dopant preferably comprises Mg. The slanted end facet makes a shallow angle e.g. less than 30 degrees to the plane of the p type superlattice thereby enabling lateral hole injection into and efficient light extraction from the active region. The device can comprise an interdigitated array structure that greatly increases the total emitting area out of the top of the device. Alternatively the p type superlattice can be grown adjacent to a mesa encompassing a multi quantum well active region to enable lateral hole injection. A low refractive index dielectric cladding layer can be deposited on at least one of the top and bottom of the mesa to provide increased mode confinement in an edge emitting waveguide structure. Alternatively a high reflectivity coating can be deposited on the top or the bottom of the mesa to provide a vertical emitting structure.

An embodiment of the present invention comprises a p type SL to laterally inject holes into the QWs of a III nitride LED or LD thereby increasing hole injection efficiency. In particular the invention takes advantage of two recent research results 1 high lateral conductivity in p type AlGaN based short period superlattices with average aluminum compositions covering a wide composition range including 60 Al suitable for 280 nm and longer wavelength devices and 2 the demonstration of an effective combined plasma and crystallographic chemical etch for yielding ultrasmooth facets in AlGaN. See M. A. Miller et al. 38 533 2009 . The inventive devices utilize the high carrier concentration of the 2DHG in between SL layers by injecting holes in the direction parallel to the layers of the superlattice. Quantum wells interface the SL on its edge providing numerous low potential barrier access points for current flow. These devices described in the following two examples have many advantages. The examples use AlGaN based active and injection layers although the invention is generally applicable to all AlGaInN alloy systems i.e. systems comprising GaN AlN AlGaN InN InGaN and or AlInGaN . Therefore rather than a AlGaN AlGaN SL InGaN GaN InGaN AlGaN or AlInGaN AlGaInN SLs can also be used. Further the following examples use Mg as a preferred dopant for the p type SL but other acceptors such as C Be Cd or Zn can also be used.

A cross sectional end view schematic illustration of the first exemplary device is shown in . In this device the fabrication process begins with the growth of the p type SL on a large band gap insulator such as AlN or unintentionally doped UID AlGaN. The p type SL can comprise p doped AlGaN with a spatially modulated chemical composition that enables high lateral hole conductivity. For example the p type SL can comprise p type AlGaN and p type AlGaN where compositions x and y are different and material compositions can range from GaN to AlN. For example the AlGaN superlattice can be p doped with Mg acceptor. A trench can be formed in the layered structure by plasma etching with a very low RF power. A mask which can be a reflowed resist can shape a very shallow sidewall of the trench oriented 20 30 from c plane . The shallow sidewall can then treated with a KOH based crystallographic wet etch to allow the 10 3 plane to emerge. The wet etch removes much of the plasma damaged material and cleans up the sidewall to provide a slanted end facet for the next step. The surface can be patterned with an oxide mask to prevent growth over the unetched portion of the p type region allowing for subsequent p type metallization. A multiple quantum well MQW active layer and an n type layer e.g. n type AlGaN can be grown on top of this oxide patterned structure. In both LED and LD structures a higher bandgap AlGaN electron block layer can be grown as a thin layer right before the QWs to reduce electron leakage out of the QW region. Lastly electrical contacts and can be made to the n and p type layers and . The contact to the p SL can be deposited after a trench is etched into the p SL in order to maximize the thickness of p SL contributing to lateral conduction. The potential barrier at the metal semiconductor interface is predicted to decrease because of the potential for carrier tunneling from the metal to the 2DHGs. See Y J. Lin 45 L86 2006 . This eliminates the need to use p GaN as a contact layer.

The second example shown in has a different growth structure. In this case the n type material is grown first followed by an insulating UID or AlN layer and the p type SL . Alternatively the p type SL can be grown first followed by the insulating layer and the n type layer on top of the insulating layer. However with this structure growth conditions would need to be controlled to avoid Mg dopant diffusion during subsequent growth of the n type layer. The same type of trench with shallow sidewalls can be formed by ICP etching followed by a crystallographic etch to remove residual damage. The MQW active layers are grown on top of the slanted end facet in this case providing efficient lateral injection of holes from the 2DHG of the p type SL and electrons from the 2DEG of an n type SL if a SL is used for the n type side of the device or alternatively from a bulk n type AlGaN epilayer. Preferably the separation of the injection layers and does not substantially exceed the diffusion lengths of either electrons or holes in the MQW layer so that the electrons and holes overlap spatially to combine and emit photons. As noted for the previous example electrical contacts and to the SLs and can have trenches and etched into the frontside of the p type and n type layers prior to metal deposition. Alternatively electrical contact to the n type layer can be made through the bottomside. The key principle inherent in both exemplary devices is the utilization of 2DHGs in the form of a single sheet or multiple sheets p SLs to laterally inject holes into the QWs of the device.

The vertical length scale in these devices is small on the order of 1 2 m. Therefore unless the trenches are grown very long the emission area will be small. An interdigitated device as shown in can be used to increase the emission area. Similar to the structure of exemplary device a layer of n type material can be grown first on an insulating substrate followed by the UID AlGaN or AlN layer followed by the p type SL layer . A series of longitudinal trenches can be formed in this multi layer structure by ICP etching followed by a crystallographic wet etch to remove residual damage thereby forming a series of parallel isosceles trapezoidal ridges. The sidewalls of the ridges are preferably at a shallow angle to the plane of the n and p type layers. The MQW active layer is grown on the etched sidewalls or slanted end facet of each ridge. Therefore each sidewall represents an emission area as shown in the cross sectional view in . Interdigitated finger electrode n and p contacts and can then be made to the bottom n type layer and the top p type SL respectively. The finger contacts to the n type material in each trench can be connected to a large bond pad set apart from the QWs . A similar bond pad can be used for the finger contacts to the p SLs on the top of each trapezoidal ridge in an opposing orientation. This interdigitated array structure greatly increases the total emitting area out of the top of the device.

Alternative interdigitated array structures are also possible. For example the p type layer can be grown first followed by the insulating layer with the n type layer on top. Alternatively a structure similar to exemplary device can be used wherein the n type layer is grown on top of the MQW active layer. Finally alternative electrode configurations are also possible that do not require an interdigitated structure. For example a conductive substrate e.g. SiC or GaN can be used with a planar backside n contact can be made to the bottom n type layer . Alternatively if the n type layer is disposed on top to the p type superlattice layer a backside p contact can be made to the p type superlattice layer.

The lateral injection structure of the present invention has several advantages over conventional vertical LED structures. Utilizing lateral conductivity of the p type SL allows increased hole injection and carrier concentration. Contacts to the end facet of the superlattice do not require the use of p GaN as a capping layer and therefore optical absorption from this lower bandgap material is prevented. Emission occurs through the top of the device and both contacts are displaced from this emission site which decreases absorption losses due to metals. In conventional vertical LED and LD structures contacts have to be made to plasma etched n type AlGaN for UV devices which can result in higher contact resistances. The first exemplary device shown in eliminates the necessity of etching the high Al fraction AlGaN and therefore contact resistance to the n type material will be lower in comparison. Finally for both exemplary devices the QWs can be grown upon the semipolar 10 3 plane which lessens internal polarization fields in the QWs thereby enabling increased radiative efficiency.

Additional designs employing p SLs are particularly attractive for overcoming the simultaneous challenges of effective hole injection and strong mode confinement in UV III nitride LDs. III nitride LDs developed to date employ a vertical p n junction structure with n type layers QW active layers and p type layers deposited sequentially in the growth process. A fundamental characteristic of these prior designs is that high bandgap cladding materials must simultaneously provide low resistance carrier transport and sufficient refractive index contrast with the active layers to provide optical mode confinement. This condition presents an inherent conflict for AlGaN lasers because higher Al composition alloys that are required for lower refractive index have increasing acceptor activation energies and therefore are much more challenging to render p type.

In is shown a lateral injection edge emitting laser design that decouples these requirements providing both a mechanism for hole injection and low loss mode confinement in a deep UV laser structure. The exemplary device uses two masked epitaxial regrowths to enable n type and p type injection layers and to be grown on either side of an etched mesa active region on an insulating semiconductor substrate e.g. AlN . Preferably the mesa is not substantially wider than the carrier diffusion lengths to enable the electrons and holes to efficiently combine and emit photons. For UV LDs the n type material can be n AlGaN and the p type material can be a p type AlGaN AlGaN SL that provide for lateral electron and hole injection in the plane of the QWs . Notably the vertical dimension is not required for carrier transport and thus the mesa can be a AlGaN laser heterostructure comprising a MQW active layer embedded in a low loss undoped e.g. electrically insulating AlGaN waveguide. A low refractive index dielectric overlayer or insulating AlN can be used on the top and or bottom of the mesa for improved optical confinement. This design also allows for more uniform carrier injection into larger numbers of quantum wells than traditional vertical designs. This allows one to 1 compensate for the reduced gain of high Al composition AlGaN quantum wells 2 reduce non radiative Auger losses proportional to the carrier density to the third power n given that sufficient gain can be realized with reduced carrier density in the individual wells and 3 improve mode confinement given that the quantum wells have higher refractive index than surrounding layers. In addition high bandgap AlN barriers can be used for improved carrier confinement without carrier injection limitations. Finally this design avoids the thick AlGaN cladding layers of typical vertically injected LD designs and therefore results in a much thinner epitaxial structure significantly reducing epitaxial growth times and mitigating problems of strain relaxation and defect formation commonly seen with thick AlGaN layers grown on lattice mismatched AlN or GaN substrates.

The lateral injection design depicted in has additional distinct benefits for InGaN based visible LEDs. InGaN LEDs suffer a dramatic drop in efficiency at high currents so called efficiency droop . This phenomenon is not due to device heating as it is readily observed under pulsed operation. One hypothesis regarding the origin of efficiency droop is non radiative loss through Auger recombination. See Y. C. Shen et al. 91 141101 1 2007 . While Auger recombination is not typically dominant in wide bandgap semiconductors it is hypothesized that large valence band offsets between quantum wells and barriers combined with polarization field effects inhibit effective hole distribution leading to hole population of primarily only the first quantum well on the p side of the device. See A. David et al. 92 053502 1 2008 . This carrier build up in a single ultrathin quantum well may lead to high carrier densities even at fairly low currents and therefore Auger recombination with a dependence on carrier density to the third power e.g. n may contribute significant nonradiative loss. In this way the vertical injection of holes and hole distribution in multi quantum well structures is also a problem for InGaN based LEDs. However a laterally injected LED device enables uniform hole population of a much larger number of wells greatly reducing the carrier density per well and reducing related Auger recombination effects. For visible LED designs the active region can comprise an InGaN MQW LED structure and the p type injection layer can be p GaN in place of AlGaN p SLs given that GaN has shown sufficient p type conductivity and is transparent for visible wavelengths.

A further benefit to this laterally injected LED device is that a high reflectivity multi layer dielectric coating or metal can be deposited on top of the etched post active region for ultra low loss reflection of light in bottom emitting flip chip geometries e.g. HfO SiOcoatings are suitable for deep UV wavelengths and TiO SiOfor visible although other dielectric mirrors can be designed depending on the specific reflectivity desired . For both AlGaN and InGaN based flip chip LEDs in the standard vertical geometry the p metal must serve both as a low resistivity electrical contact and a high reflectivity mirror properties that are not simultaneously optimized for most metals and nitride materials. In contrast many of the lateral LED devices allow for distinct materials to be used as a p contact and a reflector allowing for optimization of each material.

The present invention has been described as laterally injected LEDs and LDs for deep UV and visible applications. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

