---

title: Testing effectiveness of TV commercials to account for second screen distractions
abstract: A method for measuring viewer attentiveness to an audio-visual presentation on one display in the presence of a visual distraction on another display simulating a “second screen”, comprising: reproducing the audio-visual presentation for viewing by a viewer on a first display; while the audio-visual presentation is being reproduced for viewing by the viewer, providing the visual distraction to the viewer on a second display; and determining whether the viewer switches from viewing the audio-visual presentation to the visual distraction and, if so, continuing to reproduce at least the audio of the audio-visual presentation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584859&OS=09584859&RS=09584859
owner: 
number: 09584859
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141105
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 900 129 which was filed on Nov. 5 2013.

The present invention is directed to the field of television advertising and more particularly to the field of monitoring test subjects to gauge an effectiveness of television advertisements.

During known polling and information gathering techniques used to ascertain an effectiveness of television and Internet advertisements test subjects are typically presented with a viewing screen over which a selection of content may be viewed along with select advertisements commercials. The test subjects are monitored to see whether they will switch between available programs advertisements and if so when such switching will occur. This monitoring allows the tester to ascertain the possible reason s for the switch for the purpose of developing more effective advertisements that will better hold a viewer s attention.

Such testing methodology has become increasingly difficult in recent times because program viewers i.e. viewers of television programming via traditional television or through other means such as the internet satellite cable and pre recorded programming that is played back via digital video recorders DVR s etc. are often distracted during program viewing due to the program viewers use of so called secondary devices or second screens such as tablet computers smart phones or the like. Program viewers will typically use such second screens while watching programming especially during advertisements when a viewer s interest toward the main screen e.g. the TV screen etc. which is used to display the main program will decrease and then increase again when the program resumes. Unlike a situation where the viewer switches channels during commercials when a second screen is involved a viewer may still hear the advertisements but the viewer s eyes will be diverted from the main screen to the second screen during the advertisements and diverted back to the main screen once the programming recommences. If traditional testing methodology is used to measure viewer attentiveness toward TV advertisements the results will be inaccurate because distractions from second screens are not taken into account.

Accordingly a testing methodology is needed which will take into account program viewer behavior during television advertisement viewing particularly when such second screens are distracting viewers from the advertisements so that data can be obtained on viewer habits to improve effectiveness of advertisements. 

In accordance with an embodiment a testing methodology is provided for measuring the quality of viewership of TV commercials by taking into account user distractions from secondary devices i.e. devices that may occupy a viewer s attention during a commercial break in a viewed program. The program is viewed by a testing subject on a test monitor and simulated commercial interruptions during which advertisements displayed to the viewer are provided on the test monitor. During such simulated commercial interruptions a distraction is also provided to the viewer for the purpose of diverting the viewer s attention from the advertisement to the distraction. The distraction can be in the form of an interactive prompt on a portion of the test monitor which requires a user to select the prompt such as by using a computer mouse or the like to access a message. The prompt may be accompanied by an audible signal. The distraction can also be in the form of a divided screen wherein the advertisement is displayed on one part of the screen and the distraction on the other part. The distraction can occur at the commencement of the advertisement but preferably occurs at a random time during the advertisement and most preferably near the beginning of the advertisement to better simulate real world conditions of a viewer. In other words a viewer may not be immediately distracted by a second screen device when an advertisement commences but rather at a short time after the advertisement begins.

The measurement of the viewer s alertness to the advertisement and the distraction can occur in various ways such as by the user selecting a prompt on the screen or by monitoring the viewer s eyes with a remote camera to gage if the viewer is looking at the screen monitor portion displaying the advertisement or the screen monitor portion displaying the distraction.

In one embodiment a testing subject will provide log in information to the system in response to a prompt such as by inputting a user identification. Once log in is complete and verified audio visual content such as a television program will be displayed to the testing subject on the monitor by the processor . Once the TV program is displayed for a time the program will cease and an advertisement will be displayed. While the advertisement is displayed a distraction will be provided to the monitor for viewing by the test subject and the system will monitor the test subject s interaction with the distraction such as by use of the monitoring apparatus as an indicator of the effectiveness of the advertisement. For example minimal or no interaction between the test subject and the distraction will translate into a more effective advertisement from the point of view of capturing and maintaining the attention of the test subject.

In one example the distraction can be in the form of a visual prompt on a portion of the monitor which will seek the test subject s selection of the prompt. Once selected a message will be displayed on a portion of the monitor while the advertisement is played both audibly and visually on the other portion of the monitor. Alternatively a portion of a message can be displayed and by selecting the portion a complete message will be displayed while the advertisement is played both audibly and visually. In another example the monitor screen can be divided with the advertisement displayed on one portion and the distraction on the other and when the distraction is selected only the audio portion of the advertisement is played. In either case when the distraction is selected the audio from the advertisement will continue to be played as would be the case in most situations when a viewer accesses a second screen device during the broadcast of an advertisement. In other words when a viewer is watching a TV program and a commercial break occurs the user s eyes maybe diverted to a second screen device while the television station remains selected and the audio signal remains at an audible volume such that the viewer remains exposed to the audio signal while distracted by the second screen device.

It should be pointed out that the message associated with the distraction will not require an urgent interaction on the part of the testing subject e.g. the distraction will not simulate an emergency call or the like which would normally require immediate attention by the testing subject . Rather the messages used for the distractions can contain content of any topic which may be of interest to the testing subjects such as comedy financial entertainment celebrity and so on. In a testing environment the same message distraction may be provided to all the tests subjects and the participants can then be interviewed after testing to measure the results of the tests in order to ascertain the effectiveness of particular advertisements in the wake of distractions by second screen devices.

The Client Server communication is implemented using the widely deployed and Internet standard REST architecture and JSON Internet media type data encapsulation wherein HTTP requests are initiated from Client to Server and responded by Server to Client. In this case the Client is the web applet in Configuration 1.

Configuration 2 requires no Client Server Communication but may use standard FTP to transfer collected data from Respondent s computer to Server for report generation.

The test subject referred to as the Respondent is assigned a unique alphanumeric identification ID that is embedded in the URL link that the user clicks to navigate to the test web site. Upon landing on the initial web page a web applet in the form of Adobe s Flash file referred to as the App is downloaded to the Respondent s web browser running on the Respondent s computing device PC Mac etc. . If the Respondent s browser does not have the required Flash player or the minimum required version the browser will automatically prompt the user for permission to download the player. Should the Respondent refuse to download the Flash player the test will terminate. It should be noted that while Flash player is purported to be deployed on a majority of browsers today the same design may be implemented on the emerging and non proprietary HTML5 Internet standard. 

When the App starts it requests the user s ID for data logging and the content playlist. The playlist is a sequential list of URL links of video files the App uses to stream content from the video server. A video streaming connection is then established with the video server and the first video file is played on the Respondent s browser.

 The Adobe Flash Flex framework contains a streaming video player element that is used to stream video from a video server to the Respondent s browser. When the end of the video is reached a notification alert is sent to the App from the video player element whereupon the next video URL for the channel in the playlist is loaded into the video player.

 To closely simulate a television viewing experience the App puts the Respondent s browser into full screen mode and displays the streaming video inside a TV frame graphics. The TV frame has a set of television station buttons e.g. ch 1 ch 2 ch 3 that the Respondent can switch to using the mouse or keyboard hot keys e.g. numbers 1 2 3 . The App responds to mouse keyboard input by making the requisite URL request to the video server with a time offset e.g. seconds to simulate switching to a program that is already in progress. This action along with the Respondent s ID and timestamp is sent by the App to the Server s data collection program and stored in the database.

User distractions may come in many forms. A current implementation is one wherein as a commercial or even regular programming is in progress the simulated TV screen will split into two horizontal displays one continuing with the regular programming and the other containing a static page though a silent video can be substituted on any content that may provide adequate distraction. Simultaneously a green Info icon will blink at the center top of the TV screen with a match button next to the channel buttons on the TV frame. The Respondent may then click the Info button to get more details on the Distraction e.g. breaking news celebrity gossip etc. switching the full view to the associated Distraction content video or static page . Clicking the Info button or screen will return Respondent to the regular streaming program. If the Respondent does not click on the Distraction Info the TV screen will return to the single screen regular programming content. Switching to from Distraction views are time stamped and sent to Server database.

The implementation of the Distraction is as follows. Concurrent with the playlist a sequential list of Distraction objects are retrieved at initialization. A Distraction object contains the time channel and corresponding asset of commercial regular programming during which the Distraction is to be displayed the type of Distraction the static Distraction prompt and detail assets or URL to said assets and the length of time to display the Distraction. The App will set start stop timers in accordance with the Distraction objects and upon the firing of these timers it will resize and reposition the display area accordingly along with showing and hiding of the Info button flashing Icon.

When the end of the playlist is reached the App sends an End Of Test message to Server and closes its browser window. In the current implementation the closing of the browser window will expose the underlying window that contains a series of feedback questions for the Respondent.

The scope of protection of the invention is not limited to the examples given hereinabove. The invention is embodied in each novel characteristic and each combination of characteristics which includes every combination of any features which are stated in the claims even if this feature or combination of features is not explicitly stated in the examples.

