---

title: Framework for geolocation-based customer-to-product matching hosted in a cloud-computing environment
abstract: The present disclosure describes methods, systems, and computer program products for providing an on-demand, cloud-based platform exposing a geolocation service. One computer-implemented method includes storing, in a persistence, customer master data received as part of a customer registration process, storing, in the persistence, customer preferences received in a customer-created product preferences list, receiving geolocation updates from a customer mobile device, determining if there is a match between a particular customer preference and a product in a product catalog based on received customer preferences and the customer location based on the received geolocation updates, transmitting generated determined matches to display on a map to the customer mobile device, and transmitting online navigation data to the customer mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256890&OS=09256890&RS=09256890
owner: SAP SE
number: 09256890
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140929
---
Various geolocation technologies are used to locate a user at a geographical position and are no longer used exclusively with special dedicated devices e.g. global positioning system GPS navigation systems . Integration of geolocation technology within mobile devices e.g. smartphones and tablet computers has greatly increased the popularity of the technologies and allowed geolocation applications and functions to be developed and used by a mobile device user. For example mobile devices have incorporated GPS receivers that permit determination and management of global positioning using GPS satellites and allow the current position of a mobile device owner to be identified online with high precision. However current location based services are focused on a mobile device owner s current location as opposed to where the mobile device owner plans is projected to be. The lack of ability to determine the mobile device owner s future position results in among other things a loss of marketing business opportunities a loss of sales and or a failure to develop enhanced cloud based mobile device applications.

The present disclosure relates to computer implemented methods computer readable media and computer systems for providing an on demand cloud based platform exposing a geolocation service. One computer implemented method includes storing in a persistence customer master data received as part of a customer registration process storing in the persistence customer preferences received in a customer created product preferences list receiving geolocation updates from a customer mobile device determining if there is a match between a particular customer preference and a product in a product catalog based on received customer preferences and the customer location based on the received geolocation updates transmitting generated determined matches to display on a map to the customer mobile device and transmitting online navigation data to the customer mobile device.

Other implementations can include corresponding computer systems apparatuses and computer programs recorded on one or more computer storage devices each configured to perform the actions of the methods. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of software firmware or hardware installed on the system that in operation causes or causes the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The foregoing and other implementations can each optionally include one or more of the following features alone or in combination 

A first aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein the customer preferences are based on data obtained from the product catalog stored in the persistence.

A second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the store locations and the retailer master data are received from retailers as part of at least a retailer registration process.

A third aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects determining initial matching between the customer master data the customer preferences store locations and retailer master data and responsive to a determination of initial matching generating a push notification for transmission to the customer.

A fourth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects as part of the determination of initial matching obtaining product locations and customer preference locations from the persistence and filtering matches between the customer master data the customer preferences the store locations and the retailer master data by price ranges associated with the customer preferences.

A fifth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further comprising transmitting a determined match to the retailer used by the retailer to transmit any special conditions related to the match to the customer mobile device.

A sixth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further comprising receiving an indication of grouping from a plurality of customers seeking to receive special prices or product offerings by retailers associated with a geographical region determining if the plurality of customers are interested in a particular product in the geographical region and transmitting a special price or product offering to one or more customers of the plurality of customers.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in particular implementations so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. Advantages can be for both types of end users e.g. customers buyers and retailers . First advantages for customers buyers include 

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The following detailed description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make use and or practice the disclosed subject matter and is provided in the context of one or more particular implementations. Various modifications to the disclosed implementations will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other implementations and applications without departing from scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the described and or illustrated implementations but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Geolocation is the identification of a real world geographic location e.g. by latitude and longitude of an object e.g. a person device etc. and may refer to assessing a location or to the actual assessed location. While geolocation is closely related to the use of positioning systems e.g. the global positioning system GPS geolocation can also be distinguished by a greater emphasis on determining a meaningful location e.g. street address rather than a set of geographic coordinates. Geolocation can also determine the way in which the information necessary for the geolocation is acquired e.g. through identification of an internet protocol IP address of a device connected to the Internet the network provider or mobile device GSM network through the GPS system etc. .

Various geolocation technologies including those not mentioned above can be used to locate a user at a geographical position and are no longer used exclusively with special dedicated devices e.g. dedicated GPS navigation systems . Integration of geolocation technology within mobile devices e.g. smartphones and tablet computers has greatly increased the popularity of the technologies and allowed geolocation applications and functions to be developed and used by a mobile device user. For example mobile devices have incorporated GPS receivers that permit determination and management of global positioning using GPS satellites and allow the current position of a mobile device owner to be identified online with high precision. However current location based services are focused on a mobile device owner s current location as opposed to where the mobile device owner plans is projected to be. The lack of ability to determine the mobile device owner s future position results in among other things a loss of marketing business opportunities a loss of sales and or a failure to develop enhanced cloud based mobile device applications.

In a service where potential buyers customers announce their intentions to go somewhere and or do something e.g. visit a mall or take a vacation to a popular resort and or where a history of potential customer actions permits a projected action e.g. based on a mobile device user s specifically traveled route every Friday to their place of employment a location based service can act accordingly and support retailers and or customers based at least in part on user based preferences. For example one typical real world problem is to bring together potential customers and retailers in a location in which there are many stores e.g. a mall city etc. . Currently this is done by advertising in online and offline media. Customers usually want to buy products in a certain price range and retailers offer products in certain price ranges with special conditions e.g. discounts special offerings etc. . It is difficult for customers to get a succinct overview of available products and price ranges when they go shopping in particular location in which there are many stores and customers often spend a lot of time physically visiting various shops to look for products of interest. On the other hand retailers especially those with non attractive locations would prefer to directly address customers who are interested in certain products in given price range in an attempt to capture their business and maximize sales.

The ability to determine a customer s current projected location and to have access to preferences associated with the customer would permit the retailer to target customers with particular discounts special offerings etc. At a high level this disclosure describes a cloud based framework which permits bringing together customers and retailers based on geo locations actual preferences and currently available offerings.

The described geolocation service is exposed by an on demand cloud computing based framework and can in some implementations act as online shopping assistance for customers and a direct channel to customers for registered retailers. In some implementations some or all of the following functionality can be provided by the service 

In typical implementations customer locations and product locations are tracked and mapped to structured data stored in a database e.g. product price ranges customer preferences etc. . Geo spatial extension functionalities e.g. provided by a geo spatial software engine application logic upgrades etc. provide special data structures and geo spatial algorithms which are located in a database layer of a database typically an in memory column store database for performance reasons therefore geolocation based calculations can be executed extremely fast in memory based on the special data types structures introduces by the geo spatial extension e.g. geolocation points geolocation ranges etc. . Data typically used in a retailer scenario e.g. product information customer interests etc. is enriched by the specialized data fields storing the geo information and SQL extensions are introduced by the geospatial extension to realize the described scenarios e.g. customer product matching based on geolocations adapting price information according to the products of interests of potential customers in a certain area etc. . In typical implementations the matching of potential customers and products based on geolocations is implemented in the database layer allowing efficient querying of information based on for example in one implementation bounded box queries overlaps can be identified by an intersection of bounded boxes natively supported by the geo spatial extension or any other particular shape . Additionally all view types provided by the database can be configured to utilize the geo spatial extension. For this reason real time analytics based on geolocations can be performed efficiently even on very complex views. This allows retailers to do detailed analysis of customer demands by analyzing the provided customer information e.g. location based product interests preferred prices of customers based on their geolocation etc. .

In some implementations an event stream processor can be used to support consumption of massive numbers of event streams. The event streams provide frequent updates of location bases product and customer information i.e. events which must be persisted and processed by the database.

In some implementations the described cloud computing platform allows the sharing of database schemas between extended service XS applications and applications deployed to a JAVA container and using a lean JAVA server to offer push notification functionality to send information to clients directly e.g. price changes new customers interested in products in a certain location etc. . In some implementations a JAVA Web Sockets mechanism is used to push new information to user interfaces UIs e.g. customer mobile devices retailer web applications etc. . The web socket events are initialized by database triggers which in turn use mechanisms provided by the geo spatial extension to react to data updates inserts in the persistence e.g. product information customer interests etc. .

In some implementations services are exposed as OData services implemented in an database application server XS engine. Therefore calculations are performed in the database layer directly and response times are extremely fast. Due to the utilization of the OData protocol server side logic is decoupled from UI logic making it easy to implement applications for a wide range of mobile devices and to implement new applications based on the provided services. Push notification functionality is implemented in the JAVA container and able to support the OData protocol by using an OData JAVA library.

The UI layer can be part of a mobile device and provide end user UIs to the each type of possible end user of the system e.g. customer buyer and retailer . For example the UI layer can provide a mobile UI native application and or a web based application UI executing in a browser application. End user UIs can be implemented on wide range of devices. The end user UIs utilize the cloud based framework APIs to connect an on demand customer to a product matching framework. Mobile UIs are typically used by customers buyers to configure their product preferences but can also be done using a web based application UI to provide current geolocation information receive special offerings and product hit lists and to navigate to stores offering products which fit to configured customer preferences. Web based application UIs are typically used by retailers to maintain product catalogs analyze customer demands and behavior etc. As understood by those of skill in the art mobile UI s and web based application UIs can be use as needed according to appropriate specifications and are not limited to the above described typical uses.

The connector is part of the CCP and is an API for the data handling and even processing component. The connector is part of the data handling and event processing component. The connector has to deal with device specifics mobile UI web based application UI etc. . The connectors provide an API for the UIs to communicate with the system using the data handling and event processing component e.g. to utilize corresponding functionalities . The connectors are exposed in the context of the CCP . Incoming requests are dispatched to a corresponding connector by a load balancer component of the platform. A connector is needed for each type of UI technology. For example an IOS device would use one connector while an ANDROID device would use another connector. The connector converts requests into a unified format e.g. HTTP which is used by the data handling and even processing . Connectors can be installed on mobile devices as plug ins libraries etc. In other words the connector provides functionality to establish secure on demand connectivity to cloud based computing systems from mobile devices. The connector also allows direct access to the event stream processing message processing and direct processing functionality.

The data handling and even processing DHEP is part of the CCP and is responsible for dealing with synchronous and asynchronous communication between UIs running on various devices with the deployed on demand application. DHEP is a generic component exposed by the CCP and can be utilized in the context of arbitrary cloud applications. The DHEP includes event stream processing message processing and direct processing .

Event stream processing ESP is a set of technologies designed to support implementation of event driven architectures. An event manager e.g. as part of illustrated event stream processing is constantly fielding events and deciding whether or not to forward the events singly or in groups to event consumers for subsequent reactions that can range from simple logging to triggering complex application logic. Usually event stream processing is used when a large number of events occur e.g. changes of customer geolocations and based on certain conditions that business logic exposed by a backend service executes e.g. a customer comes close to a store which offers a product that corresponds to customer preferences .

Message processing is used for asynchronous communication between UI components and backend services. This type communication is used for less frequent events compared to the event stream processing . In the context of this invention a use scenario for message processing is when a retailer decides to make a special offering for a particular customer or a group of customers . The corresponding application logic in the backend is triggered by an asynchronous message. As soon as the application logic is triggered asynchronously data in the persistence layer is updated and push notifications are send to customer devices.

Direct processing supports synchronous point to point communication between a UI e.g. mobile UI and or web based application UI and backend services e.g. for retrieval of product information when browsing a product catalog e.g. produce catalog or configuring customer preferences e.g. customer preferences .

The CCP also includes a database application server XS and a lean JAVA application server currently illustrated as a combined component including OData services application logic and push notifications . In some implementations the two application servers are separated. The database application server is a component of the CCP . In some implementations the XS is a JAVA application server J2EE compliant .NET or any other type of application server. The XS provides a runtime environment for applications which usually operate in a client server mode. Applications deployed to an allocation server are accessible using standard protocols like RFC HTTP S etc. The JAVA server executes server side JavaScript code e.g. to provide push notification or for other purposes consistent with this disclosure.

The basic functionality of the OData services are to provide on demand services for customer to product matching exposed as CRUD Create Read Update Delete services for consumption UIs running on by various types of devices. OData is a standardized data access protocol based on HTTP S used to expose services either in an on premise or on demand architecture. Examples of exposed services are user registration creation of customer preferences creation of product entries requesting product locations and or sending customer locations. In some implementations the OData services are web services that expose in a standard format information and provide functionality to the customer and the retailer e.g. customers can enter master data register preferences etc. Retailers can register products etc. . The OData services decouple application logic from user interfaces e.g. mobile UI and web based application UI .

The application logic of the exposed services in the context of the customer to product matching services is implemented based on functionality provided by the XS of the cloud computing platform e.g. J2EE server . In some implementations the application logic is implemented by utilizing other components of the CCP such as the geo spatial engine map service and analytics as well as OData services etc. which provide public facing APIs.

The application logic can also use push notifications to generate notifications. The CCP provides the push notifications framework for sending push notifications to connected devices e.g. based on web sockets . Examples of possible push notifications are identified customer to product matches based on customer preferences and product prices locations or special offerings from retailers. In some implementations push notification can work in reverse to allow customers to request bargaining with retailers .

The geo spatial engine is part of the CCP and allows storage processing and analysis of massive amounts of spatially oriented data e.g. latitude longitude in real time on geospatial maps. Spatial data provides the ability to answer an entirely new set of business questions with an additional location dimension. It also allows users e.g. customers and or retailers to view understand interpret question and visualize data in a way that reveals relationships patterns and trends in the form of maps. The geo spatial engine is an engine running in the CCP which provides geolocation specific functionality such as efficient storage and retrieval of geo information e.g. search functionality based on geo bounding boxes advanced calculations on geolocations and queries for joining geolocations with any other type of data stored in the database e.g. join locations with products join locations with customer metadata etc. . The geo spatial engine is an extension of an underlying in memory persistence layer in the case of the use of an in memory database in the CCP .

The map service is part of the CCP and provides map visualization and navigation functionality on various devices. For example external map services such as GOOGLE MAPS BING OPEN STREET MAPS etc. can be used as well internal custom map services.

In the case of the use of an in memory column store database the underlying column oriented in memory persistence layer can be optimized for business related analytical operations based on massive amounts of stored data in the case of a conventional database data can be stored as appropriate to the design of the database . The business related analytics functionality supports retailers during a process of optimizing offerings in regarding potential customer preferences and their current locations. Analytics can also provide analytics based on geolocation functionality typically used by retailers . This includes analysis of customer behavior who visited shops what was purchased etc.

All data created and used by the application services are stored in a persistence layer providing powerful analytical functionality and supports efficient geo spatial operations. The persistence layer includes customer preferences customer locations customer master data produce catalog store locations and retailer master data . The customer preferences are in some implementations a database table which stores individual customer preferences. For example customer preferences are virtual wish lists of customers and provide information about product details and acceptable price ranges for a product. Customer locations are stored in some implementations in a particular data base table. As soon as a customer starts a shopping trip the location data is frequently updated. This data is utilized by the application logic to identify customer to product matches based on customer preferences and the current customer location.

Customer master data e.g. address telephone number mobile device type age etc. is stored in some implementations in a database table. This data is provided during user registration and can be updated by the customer .

The product catalog can be represented in some implementations in a database table which stores all products offered by registered retailers including price information and product locations e.g. a link to shop locations . The customers can configure their preferences e.g. customer preferences based on the content of the product catalog . Retailers can maintain content for the product catalog .

Retailers can provide information related to their stores which in some implementations can be stored in a particular database table e.g. store locations .

Retailer master data address telephone age etc. can be stored in some implementations in a database table. This data can be provided during retailer registration and can be updated by the retailer .

Database triggers DB Triggers are procedural codes automatically executed in response to certain events occurring on a particular table or view in a database. For example these events can be create update and delete operations on certain data entities e.g. customer preference location etc. . These DB triggers are used to trigger the execution of application logic as a reaction of modification of application data e.g. an update of price information related to a particular product can trigger a push notification to mobile devices of customers where a product is declared as a customer preference .

At a customer registers with the CCP note that for the purposes of operations related to the application logic exposed as OData services executed in the database application server are represented as a single lane Cloud Computing Platform for simplicity. The corresponding customer master data e.g. name address etc. is created the customer can access the CCP services e.g. OData services using a registered mobile device e.g. a native application installed and registered with the service or using a web application inside a browser to access the platform services . As described above registration requests from the customer are passed through the data handling and even processing for processing. From method proceeds to .

At the customer master data is stored in a persistence such as persistence in customer master data another illustrative subcomponent of persistence and or another data storage location. The persistence returns a user ID and status to the CCP and a user ID and in some implementations a password and or other data is returned to the customer . From method proceeds to .

At a customer creates and transmits a list with product preferences e.g. a wish list that they would like to purchase to the CCP . In some implementations the list contains information regarding the location of the product a price range for each product the customer is willing to pay a timeframe for the shopping trip e.g. data start time end time etc. and or other data. From method proceeds to .

At the product preferences are stored in the persistence for example in the customer preferences . A preference list ID and status is returned to the cloud computing platform and then to the customer . From method proceeds to .

At an initial matching of customer preferences with the stores product catalog associated with persistence is determined calculated by the CCP . The matching algorithm e.g. associated with the application logic of the application server takes into account the geolocations provided by the customer preferences list stored in customer preferences and the geolocations of the retailer shops shop locations . The geolocation based matching is performed using the geo spatial engine . From method proceeds to .

At the resulting list of matches of products to customer preferences based on geolocations e.g. product locations and preference locations is then filtered by the provided price ranges e.g. in the customer preferences and the results returned to the geo spatial engine and then to the CCP . From method proceeds to .

At the calculated matches are sent to the customer e.g. using a push notification mobile device which can be accessed using the mobile UI application or the web based application UI . From method proceeds to of .

Note that at any time the customer can signal the platform that a shopping trip into a certain area has started.

Referring now to at the current customer geolocation is sent to the CCP on a regular basis e.g. a defined interval every X minutes or based on distance moved geographically etc. . From method proceeds to .

At on every location update by the geo spatial engine the CCP and in some implementations the geo spatial engine can assist determines calculates if there is any match between a customer preference and an actual product in the product catalog based on the provided criteria e.g. location price range etc. in customer preferences and the customer location. Several matching types are calculated e.g. closest hit best price etc. returned to the geo spatial engine and then to the CCP . From method proceeds to .

At the CCP requests that the map service determine mapping locations for matches. A map with markers is returned to the CCP . From method proceeds to .

At the CCP returns customer product match preferences to the customer mobile device. From method proceeds to .

At the CCP transmits the match information to the retailer to inform the retailer which matches apply to the customer . Potential user to product matches are sent to the corresponding retailers and the retailers can decide to make special prices or conditions for the customer in order to make an offer more attractive. From method proceeds to .

At the retailer transmits any special conditions to the customer mobile device. Such a special offer e.g. for high price or specialty products are can in some implementations be pushed immediately to the customer device e.g. using push notifications text messages phone calls etc. where they are visualized using the preference to product match in . In some implementations various visualization modes can be supported e.g. maps lists etc. . In some implementations the customer can request detailed information from the product catalog according to every identified match using a request to the CCP . From method proceeds to .

At the customer requests navigation information from the CCP for an offered product that they wish to buy. From method proceeds to .

At the navigation request is transmitted to the map service which returns navigation information to the CCP and then to the customer . After method stops.

The computer can process for serve as a client e.g. client UI layer or one or more subcomponents connector data handling and event processing or one or more subcomponents or the CCP or one or more subcomponents and or any other component of the EDCS whether or not illustrated . The illustrated computer is communicably coupled with a network . In some implementations one or more components of the computer may be configured to operate within a cloud computing based environment.

At a high level the computer is an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process store or manage data and information associated with the EDCS . According to some implementations the computer may also include or be communicably coupled with a cloud computing server application server e mail server web server caching server streaming data server business intelligence BI server and or other server.

The computer can receive requests over network from a client application e.g. a mobile UI and or web based application UI executing on another computer in use by a customer and responding to the received requests by processing the said requests in an appropriate software application. In addition requests may also be sent to the computer from internal users e.g. from a command console or by other appropriate access method external or third parties other automated applications as well as any other appropriate entities individuals systems or computers.

Each of the components of the computer can communicate using a system bus . In some implementations any and or all the components of the computer both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or the interface over the system bus using an API and or a service layer . The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the computer and or the EDCS . The functionality of the computer may be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services such as those provided by the service layer provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in extensible markup language XML format or other suitable format. While illustrated as an integrated component of the computer alternative implementations may illustrate the API and or the service layer as stand alone components in relation to other components of the computer and or EDCS . Moreover any or all parts of the API and or the service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

The computer includes an interface . Although illustrated as a single interface in two or more interfaces may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or EDCS . The interface is used by the computer for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment including within the EDCS connected to the network whether illustrated or not . Generally the interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically the interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network or interface s hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated EDCS .

The computer includes a processor . Although illustrated as a single processor in two or more processors may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the EDCS . Generally the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the computer . Specifically the processor executes the functionality required for providing the described on demand cloud based platform exposing a geolocation service.

The computer also includes a database and memory that hold data for the computer and or other components of the EDCS . Although illustrated as a single database and memory in two or more databases and memories may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the EDCS . While database and memory are illustrated as integral components of the computer in alternative implementations the database and memory can be external to the computer and or the EDCS . In some implementations the database can be a conventional database or an in memory database or a mix of both. In some implementations the database and memory can be combined into one component.

The application is an algorithmic software engine providing functionality according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the EDCS particularly with respect to functionalities required for providing the described on demand cloud based platform exposing a geolocation service. For example application can serve as the UI layer or one or more subcomponents connector data handling and event processing or one or more subcomponents the CCP or one or more subcomponents and or any other component of the EDCS whether or not illustrated . Further although illustrated as a single application the application may be implemented as multiple applications on the computer . In addition although illustrated as integral to the computer in alternative implementations the application can be external to the computer and or the EDCS .

There may be any number of computers associated with or external to the EDCS and communicating over network . Further the term client user and other appropriate terminology may be used interchangeably as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Moreover this disclosure contemplates that many users may use one computer or that one user may use multiple computers .

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware in computer hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them.

The term data processing apparatus computer and or electronic computer device or equivalent as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art refers to data processing hardware and encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be or further include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a central processing unit CPU a FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . In some implementations the data processing apparatus and or special purpose logic circuitry may be hardware based and or software based. The apparatus can optionally include code that creates an execution environment for computer programs e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. The present disclosure contemplates the use of data processing apparatuses with or without conventional operating systems for example LINUX UNIX WINDOWS MAC OS ANDROID IOS or any other suitable conventional operating system.

A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program software a software application a module a software module a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. While portions of the programs illustrated in the various figures are shown as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects methods or other processes the programs may instead include a number of sub modules third party services components libraries and such as appropriate. Conversely the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components as appropriate.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a CPU a FPGA or an ASIC.

Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors both or any other kind of CPU. Generally a CPU will receive instructions and data from a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM or both. The essential elements of a computer are a CPU for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a global positioning system GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few.

Computer readable media transitory or non transitory as appropriate suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM DVD R DVD RAM and DVD ROM disks. The memory may store various objects or data including caches classes frameworks applications backup data jobs web pages web page templates database tables repositories storing business and or dynamic information and any other appropriate information including any parameters variables algorithms instructions rules constraints or references thereto. Additionally the memory may include any other appropriate data such as logs policies security or access data reporting files as well as others. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display LED Light Emitting Diode or plasma monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball or trackpad by which the user can provide input to the computer. Input may also be provided to the computer using a touchscreen such as a tablet computer surface with pressure sensitivity a multi touch screen using capacitive or electric sensing or other type of touchscreen. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The term graphical user interface or GUI may be used in the singular or the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Therefore a GUI may represent any graphical user interface including but not limited to a web browser a touch screen or a command line interface CLI that processes information and efficiently presents the information results to the user. In general a GUI may include a plurality of user interface UI elements some or all associated with a web browser such as interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operable by the business suite user. These and other UI elements may be related to or represent the functions of the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of wireline and or wireless digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a radio access network RAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX a wireless local area network WLAN using for example 802.11 a b g n and or 802.20 all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. The network may communicate with for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and or other suitable information between network addresses.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In some implementations any or all of the components of the computing system both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or the interface using an application programming interface API and or a service layer. The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the computing system. The functionality of the various components of the computing system may be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in extensible markup language XML format or other suitable format. The API and or service layer may be an integral and or a stand alone component in relation to other components of the computing system. Moreover any or all parts of the service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation and or integration of various system modules and components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation and or integration in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations alterations and permutations of the described implementations are within the scope of the following claims as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

Accordingly the above description of example implementations does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

