---

title: Device provisioning
abstract: The disclosure relates to provisioning end devices, such as wireless end devices. In one aspect, a wireless end device may be provisioned with a backend system without requiring a user to enter information to connect the wireless end device to a local wireless network. Moreover, the wireless end device may be provisioned with a single user action. In one example, the single action may be a single click on an activation portal. The single action may trigger the backend system to detect the wireless end device with the help of one or more gateways at one or more premises, and to associate the wireless end device with a user account. The backend system may also facilitate configuring the wireless end device to connect to the proper or desired network at a premises.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590857&OS=09590857&RS=09590857
owner: Comcast Cable Communications, LLC
number: 09590857
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140519
---
New products and devices are being developed for integration into home networks. Example devices include consumer devices video and audio equipment home automation equipment and home security devices such as sensors and cameras. In order to save cost and size many of these devices do not have a user interface for users to enter provisioning information so that the devices may be connected to the home network. Moreover even if the devices may be connected to the home network the devices may remain unknown to other aspects of a network such as a backend system headend local office other servers cloud based systems security systems and or gateways. As such network technicians or other third party personnel may be required to travel to users homes to connect devices to home networks and provision devices with a backend system. The use of these technicians and personnel may be costly inefficient and an annoyance to some users and result in more overall cost than the cost of a provisioning interface on the device. Accordingly there is demand for a more simplified process of connecting provisioning controlling and registering devices on a network.

Some or all of the various features described herein may facilitate connecting wireless devices to networks e.g. local area networks wide area networks home or premises networks business networks cloud based networks etc. and provisioning the wireless devices with a remote system e.g. a service provider backend system cloud or other remote system without requiring the user to enter specific network or device information. In certain embodiments this disclosure enables a single action e.g. one click process for provisioning wireless devices and for registering these devices with a server or other remote site to ensure the devices are updated appropriately and that local and or remote features are enabled for utilizing the new devices. In this manner end users can easily purchase and upgrade their systems e.g. security garage door cars phones content players set top boxes sensors and other systems for one or more houses while having the new devices seamlessly integrated into the users ecosystems and having them registered and updated and accessible locally and remotely. Features of the disclosure may be implemented on backend systems e.g. a cell phone provider system a data network provider system a cloud based system and or other remote system gateways e.g. set top boxes alarm panels computers hubs or other devices providing access points to a backend system and end devices e.g. sensors cameras infrared detectors clocks electronic picture frames garage door openers climate control lighting systems etc. .

In accordance with some aspects of the disclosure a method system and apparatus are disclosed in which a computing device e.g. an application server may identify a target premises to be associated with an end device e.g. a wireless end device such as a security sensor camera etc. . In some embodiments it may be desirable to determine a set of one or more candidate gateways in proximity e.g. 10 meters 20 meters 50 meters 100 meters 200 meters and or 500 meters to any reference point or location such as the target premises and monitor some or all information received from the candidate gateways. For example when a new end device is purchased and brought into a location such as a premises the device may find numerous gateways to which it may connect. For example each premises may have a number of gateways adjacent premises may have a number of gateways and or there may be various other network options such as different network protocols and or wireless protocols associated with a local and or remote gateway. The device may have a wide selection of candidate gateway options and or protocols on which to potentially connect. The end user device may evaluate each of the candidate gateways based on for example signal strength type of gateway protocol types of systems actively associated with the gateway and or service provider and or backend systems associated with the gateway.

Alternatively and or additionally the device may monitor multiple gateways and await an appropriate signal from one of the gateways to initiate a provisioning procedure. Embodiments may further include evaluating information transferred to and or from one or more gateways to determine whether the end device has been detected. In some embodiments the backend system may detect the end device even if it connects to an undesired gateway e.g. a neighboring gateway as opposed to a gateway at the target premises a non preferred gateway at the target premises etc. .

The method may also include a step of associating the end device with the target premises. The associating may include determining a user account in association with the target premises and identifying information e.g. network information available e.g. stored in association with the user account. The step of associating may also include updating a profile associated with the target premises to include information describing the end device e.g. indicating a type or model number of the end device .

Further the method may include transmitting network information e.g. a network SSID such as a home network SSID a network password such as a home network password etc. of the target premises to the end device. In some embodiments a communication may include instructing a target gateway at the target premises to transmit the network information to the end device. The end device then may reconnect to the gateway at the target premises using the transmitted network information instead of a preconfigured activation SSID for example which may be common to multiple gateways at different premises. For example a user might use an application on his her smartphone tablet or another device to scan a bar code on the device and have the device be automatically granted access rights to the network provisioned and registered with any remote systems. Alternatively the user might simply type in a serial number or select a device from a pull down menu on a local and or cloud based application. In some embodiments the device might simply be placed in proximity to a gateway e.g. a security panel and a proximity sensor and or RFID may be used to automatically detect provision and register the device.

In certain embodiments a computing device e.g. a remote and or local server may receive a request to activate an end device at a target premises e.g. a particular home or business identify a particular gateway from among a plurality of gateways based on the request and transmit an instruction to the particular gateway at the target premises to transmit a particular activation SSID which may be a dedicated SSID that is hidden from users e.g. users residing or working at the target premises and or users visiting the target premises . The computing device may also monitor information from various gateways to determine whether the end device is connected to one of the gateways and transmit or instruct one of the gateways to transmit network information e.g. a home SSID or business SSID to the end device. As a result the end device may connect to a local wireless network at the target premises. Further the computing device may associate the end device with a user account e.g. which may correspond to a user account established at a local and or remote location to receive various services such as television home security home monitoring HVAC control sensor monitoring camera monitoring etc. .

In another aspect a method includes receiving a request to connect an end device to a network at a target premises detecting that the end device is connected to a different network e.g. a neighboring local wireless network than the network at the target premises and transmitting an instruction to change an SSID e.g. from an activation SSID which may be hidden to users to another SSID of the end device to connect the end device to the network at the target premises. To detect whether the end device is connected to different network a backend system may evaluate information received from a set of candidate gateways which may correspond to all gateways within a certain proximity to an area such as the target premises. Additionally aspects of the present disclosure teach computing devices having processor s and memory storing computer executable instructions and other apparatuses to perform the above steps and other steps for provisioning an end device with a backend system.

This summary is not intended to identify critical or essential features or provide an exhaustive listing of novel features disclosed herein but instead merely summarizes certain features and variations thereof. These and other details and features will be further described in the sections that follow.

In the following description of various illustrative embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which aspects of the disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

By way of introduction the various features described herein may allow a user to connect a wireless device to their home or business or other premises network and provision that device with a backend system e.g. a service provider system without entering device or local network information. Aspects of this disclosure include a single action e.g. one click one swipe and or one association process by which a user may connect provision and or register wireless devices. As a result users may purchase or otherwise obtain wireless devices from any store or source on line and seamlessly integrate them into their network e.g. a local security system . Moreover as the wireless devices are connected to the local network they may be provisioned with a backend system without further outside assistance e.g. assistance from a technician of the service provider and registered on that remote system. Provisioning wireless devices with a remote system e.g. a backend system may enable users to take advantage of additional services allow the devices to be controlled and or monitored remotely and or allow the devices to receive updates. For example backend systems may provide software updates for wireless devices on a local network remote storage of information obtained by wireless devices on the local network and remote processing of information obtained by wireless devices. In some cases unless a wireless device is provisioned with a backend system users might not be taking advantage of the full capabilities of the wireless device and service offerings.

Aspects of the disclosure account for the possibility that a wireless device could latch on to the wrong local network. For example a system as described herein may ensure that a wireless device is connected to the proper home network and not a neighbor s home network or other nearby network. In urban areas e.g. cities or where multiple local networks are in close proximity e.g. apartment buildings office buildings etc. there may be more concern that wireless devices are connected to the wrong network. The system of the instant disclosure may overcome this obstacle by having the backend system provision the wireless device and determine which local network information e.g. a service set identifier SSID should be sent to the wireless device. In this regard the backend system may instruct a local network gateway e.g. home gateway to provide the local network information to the new wireless device or may directly communicate with the wireless device to provide the proper local network information.

There may be one link originating from the local office and it may be split a number of times to distribute the signal to various premises in the vicinity which may be many miles of the local office . The links may include components not illustrated such as splitters filters amplifiers etc. to help convey the signal clearly although each split may introduce some degradation. Portions of the links may also be implemented with fiber optic cable while other portions may be implemented with coaxial cable other lines or wireless communication paths. By running fiber optic cable along some portions for example signal degradation may be significantly minimized allowing a single local office to reach even farther with its network of links .

The local office may include an interface such as a termination system TS . More specifically the interface may be a cable modem termination system CMTS which may be a computing device configured to manage communications between devices on the network of links and backend devices such as servers to be discussed further below . The interface may be a device as specified in a standard such as the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS standard published by Cable Television Laboratories Inc. a.k.a. CableLabs or it may be a similar or modified device instead. The interface may be configured to place data on one or more downstream frequencies to be received by modems at the various premises and to receive upstream communications from those modems on one or more upstream frequencies. For example the interface may transmit and receive one or more Moving Picture Expert Group MPEG datastreams such as MPEG 2 and MPEG 4 streams.

The local office may also include one or more network interfaces which can permit the local office to communicate with various other external networks . These networks may include for example networks of Internet devices telephone networks cellular telephone networks fiber optic networks local wireless networks e.g. WiMAX satellite networks and any other desired network and the network interface may include the corresponding circuitry needed to communicate on the external networks and to other devices on the network such as a cellular telephone network and its corresponding cell phones.

As noted above the local office may include a variety of servers that may be configured to perform various functions. For example the local office may include a push notification server . The push notification server may generate push notifications to deliver data and or commands to the various premises in the network or more specifically to the devices in the premises that are configured to detect such notifications . The local office may also include a content server . The content server may be one or more computing devices that are configured to provide content to users at their premises. This content may be for example video on demand movies television programs songs text listings etc. The content server may include software to validate user identities and entitlements to locate and retrieve requested content to encrypt the content and to initiate delivery e.g. streaming of the content to the requesting user s and or device s .

The local office may also include one or more application servers . An application server may be a computing device configured to offer any desired service and may run various languages and operating systems e.g. servlets and JSP pages running on Tomcat MySQL OSX BSD Ubuntu Redhat HTML5 JavaScript AJAX and COMET . For example an application server may be responsible for collecting television program listings information and generating a data download for electronic program guide listings. Another application server may be responsible for monitoring user viewing habits and collecting that information for use in selecting advertisements. Yet another application server may be responsible for formatting and inserting advertisements in a video stream being transmitted to the premises . In some embodiments the application server may be configured to provide a backend provisioning system. For example the application server may include one or more processors and memory storing computer executable instructions that when executed by the one or more processors causes the application server to provision an end device e.g. a wireless device for inclusion within a network e.g. a local network such as a home network and register the end device with a user account or premises account. The application server may include its own backend provisioning database to store user account information and corresponding network information and or billing information. For example a backend provisioning database may store a user account in association with local network information e.g. a home SSID password gateway identifier or serial number gateway MAC address etc. information identifying services available to a user and or information identifying each of the devices and features thereof. The application server may also include a billing server to track billing for certain services of the backend provisioning system.

Although shown separately one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the push server content server and application server may be combined. Further here the push server content server and application server are shown generally and it will be understood that they may each contain memory storing computer executable instructions to cause a processor to perform steps described herein and or memory for storing data such as information for identifying a user account.

An example premises such as a home or business may include an interface . The interface may include computer executable instructions e.g. an application or program for performing one or more aspects of the disclosure such as providing an activation portal e.g. web portal for users to initiate activation of a device. The interface can include any communication circuitry needed to allow a device to communicate on one or more links with other devices in the network. For example the interface may include a modem which may include transmitters and receivers used to communicate on the links and with the local office . The modem may be for example a coaxial cable modem for coaxial cable lines a fiber interface node for fiber optic lines a twisted pair telephone modem a cellular telephone transceiver a satellite transceiver a local wi fi router or access point or any other desired modem device. Also although only one modem is shown in a plurality of modems operating in parallel may be implemented within the interface .

Further the interface may include a gateway . The modem may be connected to or be a part of the gateway . The gateway may be a computing device that communicates with the modem s to allow one or more other devices in the premises to communicate with the local office and other devices beyond the local office . The gateway may be a set top box STB digital video recorder DVR computer server media hub home automation controller alarm panel or any other desired computing device. The gateway may also include not shown local network interfaces to provide communication signals to requesting entities devices in the premises such as display devices e.g. televisions additional STBs personal computers laptop computers wireless devices e.g. sensors wireless laptops notebooks tablets and netbooks cordless phones e.g. Digital Enhanced Cordless Telephone DECT phones mobile phones mobile televisions personal digital assistants PDA and other end devices landline phones e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phones a wireless router or other hub and any other desired devices e.g. an alarm panel . Examples of the local network interfaces include Multimedia Over Coax Alliance MoCA interfaces Ethernet interfaces universal serial bus USB interfaces wireless interfaces e.g. IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.15 IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.1x analog twisted pair interfaces Bluetooth interfaces ZigBee interfaces and others.

The computing device may include one or more output devices such as a display e.g. an external television LED screen LCD screen etc. or speakers and may include one or more output device controllers such as a video processor. Further the computing device may include an input device interface e.g. infrared IR interface Near Field Communication NFC interface radio frequency identification RFID reader etc. for communicating with one or more user input devices such as a remote control keyboard mouse touch screen microphone camera etc. The computing device may also include one or more network interfaces such as a network input output I O circuit e.g. a network card to communicate with an external network . The network input output circuit may be a wired interface wireless interface or a combination of the two. In some embodiments the network input output circuit may include a modem e.g. a cable modem and the external network may include the communication links discussed above the external network an in home network a provider s wireless coaxial fiber or hybrid fiber coaxial distribution system e.g. a DOCSIS network or any other desired network.

The example is a hardware configuration. Modifications may be made to add remove combine divide etc. components of the computing device as desired. Additionally the components illustrated may be implemented using basic computing devices and components and the same components e.g. processor ROM storage display etc. may be used to implement any of the other computing devices and components described herein. For example the various components herein may be implemented using computing devices having components such as a processor executing computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium as illustrated in . Some or all of the entities described herein may be software based and may co exist in a common physical platform e.g. a requesting entity can be a separate software process and program from a dependent entity both of which may be executed as software on a common computing device . Additionally the computing device may include a provisioning manager which can perform the various methods for provisioning a wireless device described herein as a replacement for or augment to any other processor that the computing device may include. That is the provisioning manager may include a separate processor and or set of computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processor cause the processor or the computing device as a whole to perform the various methods of the present disclosure such as providing an activation portal transmitting SSIDs and identifying a wireless device. The provisioning manager may also include secure memory not shown which can store the various user account information encryption information and SSID information described herein. The secure memory can be any desired type of memory and can have enhanced security features to help restrict access e.g. can only be accessed by the provisioning manager can be internal to the provisioning manager etc. . Where the provisioning manager includes a separate set of computer executable instructions these instructions may be secured such that only authorized users may be allowed to modify augment or delete them.

In some embodiments the provisioning manager may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . That is the provisioning manager may be a chip designed specifically for performing the various processes described herein. Further the ASIC may be implemented within or in communication with various computing devices provided herein.

One or more aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in computer usable data and or computer executable instructions such as in one or more program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types when executed by a processor in a computer or other data processing device. The computer executable instructions may be stored on one or more computer readable media such as a hard disk optical disk removable storage media solid state memory RAM etc. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. In addition the functionality may be embodied in whole or in part in firmware or hardware equivalents such as integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGA and the like. Particular data structures may be used to more effectively implement one or more aspects of the disclosure and such data structures are contemplated within the scope of computer executable instructions and computer usable data described herein.

The premises may also have one or more doors one or more windows and one or more garage doors . Notably end devices may be placed at each premises . The end devices may communicate directly or indirectly to the gateway at the same premises via wired or wireless connections. The end devices may also communicate with other end devices via wired or wireless connections. Examples of end devices may include sensors e.g. security sensors such as proximity sensors contact switches motion detectors etc. cameras cell phones baby monitors and audio video devices. However the end devices are not limited to these examples and may be any other device that may connect to the gateway to become a part of the local network of the premises. Accordingly various structural differences among the end devices may exist. Some end devices may include user interfaces e.g. buttons screens microphones and speakers etc. through which users may provide information to the end device or ascertain information from the end device while other end devices might not have such sophisticated user interfaces. For example some end devices might only have an on off switch for users to control without taking the end device apart and or reprogramming the end device .

Further different end points may serve different functions and trigger different events. For example an end device may be a motion detector in proximity to a door or window of the first premises and may cause a light to turn on and or an alarm to sound or send information to an alarm panel or the gateway to take such actions . also shows that client devices may be cameras for monitoring the outside of the first premises or the inside of the second premises . Some end devices may be mobile and may move about the premises . Indeed some end devices may even leave the premises and return to the same premises or be moved to a new premises.

In light of the example diagram of various features may be realized. For example a display device such as the television may be used to interface with and control settings of any of the one or more end devices . A user may therefore use his her television to view data collected by the end devices such as images captured by a camera or view status information of the end devices such as information indicating which end devices are active and or working properly. The television may also be used to configure one or more of the end devices . This may especially be helpful where the end devices do not have their own user interfaces or where their own user interfaces are difficult to use e.g. have smaller screens or require more steps .

As mentioned above the gateways of may communicate with the local office . Moreover the gateways may communicate with external networks through the local office . For example a gateway may communicate with a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet. In some embodiments the gateway may communicate directly e.g. without going through the local office with such external networks.

In some cases the local office may be configured to communicate directly with a public safety answering point PSAP . In other cases the gateway may connect to a PSAP through the PSTN . Thus the gateway may be used to communicate emergencies such as a break in fire medical emergency etc. to the proper authorities so that help may be dispatched to the appropriate premises . Also through the PSTN the gateway may connect to a cellular backhaul e.g. including cell towers base stations etc. and ultimately to a cellular device . Given the connection of the gateway to the PSTN and cellular backhaul a user in premises may operate his her television to send receive a call or text message to a cellular device .

Further through the WAN the gateway may connect to a monitoring entity . The monitoring entity may be affiliated with the entity controlling the local office or a separate third party entity. The monitory entity may include devices and personnel for monitoring information sent from the premises through their gateways . The monitoring entity may evaluate information sent by end devices to determine whether there is an emergency and may dispatch help accordingly. Also through the WAN the gateway may connect to a web portal server . The web portal server may be a computing device capable of providing a web portal that users may access on any device connected to the WAN e.g. any IP connected device such as a smartphone tablet etc. . Users may access the web portal to view their account information edit their account information and or provision end devices as described further herein.

Although not shown in the local office may include a backend system configured to provision the end devices. The backend system of the local office may receive information from the gateways and send instructions to the gateways . The backend system of the local office may also communicate with the end devices through the gateway . Such communications may be directly with the end devices where the backend system addresses information packets to specific end devices or indirectly where the backend system addresses information packets to the gateway and designates which end device the information packets pertain to . The backend system of the local office may also control communications through either the PSTN or WAN and may communicate with any other entity e.g. PSAP or monitoring entity . In particular the backend system of the local office may be configured to exchange information e.g. user account information with the web portal server . In some embodiments the web portal server may be implemented in the local office e.g. as an application server of the local office .

The method of begins with a step of providing an end device . The end device may be an off the shelf device or an operator provided device. For example users may purchase an end device from a retailer which may be separate from an entity providing a backend system. Alternatively the end device may be provided e.g. shipped to the user. In any event the user may bring the end device onto his her premises e.g. into his her home without the presence of personnel associated with the backend system. In other words the user may introduce the end device into his her home and attempt to activate the end device without the presence of an employee e.g. a technician of an entity controlling the backend system.

In the description of below it is assumed that the end device is a wireless end device e.g. a web camera or other web sensor that is configured to wirelessly connect e.g. via a WiFi connection to the gateway of a premises . It is also assumed that the wireless end device does not have a user interface or other input console that allows a user to enter network configuration information e.g. SSIDs IP addresses MAC addresses etc. . Nevertheless it should be understood that the processes of may be implemented using an end device that connects via a wired connection to the gateway and or that has a user interface for entering network configuration information.

In step a user may access an activation portal when the user is ready to activate the wireless end device . The user may be informed of the activation portal by instructions in a manual accompanying or otherwise available for the wireless end device . Such instructions could also be provided on the wireless end device itself on a label of the wireless end device or on packaging of the wireless end device. There may be various ways in which to implement the activation portal and thus various ways in which to reach the activation portal. Accordingly the instructions may indicate multiple ways in which the user may access the activation portal.

In some embodiments the activation portal may be implemented as a web page. The web page may be stored on a host computing device and accessible using a web browser. In such cases a user may be instructed to visit the web page and may be provided with a uniform resource locator URL a link e.g. where the instructions are provided electronically they may include a link that opens and directs a web browser to the appropriate web page or other address that will allow the user to find the web page. A user may navigate to the web page using any IP connected device such as a smartphone tablet PC laptop STB DVR etc. configured to execute a web browser. Once the user navigates to the activation portal the user may be prompted to enter authentication information e.g. a username and or password . This authentication information may be specific to an individual a premises e.g. a particular home or a group of premises e.g. a group of properties owned by the same person company or organization . After the authentication information is entered it may be transmitted and submitted to the backend system which may determine whether to authenticate the user. If the entered authentication information matches authentication information associated with a user account stored by the backend system or a device connected thereto the backend system may authorize the device hosting the activation portal to permit the user to log into the activation portal.

Once logged into the activation portal an activation screen as illustrated in may be shown by the web browser. The activation screen may be the same web page as the log in web page or another web page of the same website as the log in page. If more than one premises is associated with the user account the user may select which premises the wireless end device is to be affiliated with. For example if a person owns two homes that person may choose which home the wireless end device is to be used at. The user account information may specify a default premises so that the user might not have to choose a target premises. With the target premises selected the user may select an activate device option e.g. a virtual button on a touchscreen or similar link . In response to selecting the activate device option the device executing the web browser e.g. a user s smartphone tablet PC etc. or the device hosting the web page or any other device may send a signal to the backend system. This signal may include information indicating that a device is to be activated at a premises as well as information identifying the premises or geographic location of a premises e.g. a physical address geographical coordinates IP address etc. . The information may be included within IP packets e.g. IPv4 or IPv6 packets and transmitted over the WAN e.g. Internet to the backend system in the local office .

Alternatively the activation portal may be implemented as a screen stored on the gateway . For example a user may go to a menu screen on their STB and navigate to the activation portal screen. Image data for providing the activation portal screen may be preconfigured on the STB or may be downloaded to the STB from the local office . In some cases the activation portal screen may be included within an electronic programming guide or similar menu that is downloaded intermittently or periodically e.g. each day in the middle of the night . An example of the activation portal screen accessible via the gateway e.g. an STB is illustrated in . As shown in the activation portal screen may simply include an activation device option of course other information may also be added to the screen . A user may select the activation device option by operating a remote control e.g. television remote control or STB remote control . In response to selecting the activate device option the gateway may send information upstream to the local office indicating that a wireless device is to be activated at the premises. This information may also include information identifying the gateway e.g. a STB ID . Notably a user might not have to log in to the activation portal when accessing it through the gateway . The local office may store information correlating gateway IDs with the location of a premises so the local office may learn the location of the premises from the gateway ID. Alternatively the gateway may be associated with a particular premises and may store information indicating the location of that premises which it may then send to the local office when the user selects the activate device option .

In yet another example the activation portal may be implemented as a screen within a computer executable program. The user may access the activation portal by launching a program using any computing device such as a tablet smartphone gateway PC etc. The program may be used for other purposes as well like for scheduling television shows movies and other content to record or for controlling a home security system. The program may have been previously configured with the user account information and thus may be associated with a particular premises or group of premises. The program may automatically authenticate the user so the user might not have to log in as when accessing the activation portal using a web browser. illustrates an example of an activation portal screen displayed by a program launched and executing on a computing device. The illustrative activation portal screen of is shown as being similar to the web page of although it is not accessed by a web browser. When the activate device option is selected the program may cause the computing device it is being executed on to send a signal to the backend system. This signal may include information indicating that a device is to be activated at a premises as well as information identifying the premises or geographic location of a premises e.g. a physical address geographical coordinates etc. . The information may be included within IP packets e.g. IPv4 or IPv6 packets and transmitted over the WAN e.g. Internet to the backend system in the local office .

As shown in each of the activation portals described above provides a single action e.g. one click one swipe one command etc. process for provisioning the wireless device. Image recognition processes e.g. identifying a gesture and or audio recognition processes may also be used to detect a user s selection of an activate device option . After the activate device option is selected the user might not be required to enter any other information. The single act of selecting the activate device option will trigger the backend system to provision the wireless end device and activate the wireless end device without further input from the user as further described below.

In some embodiments after the active device option is selected a screen may be displayed either by the web browser STB or program instructing the user to turn on the wireless end device . In particular the instructions may indicate a time frame e.g. within the next 10 minutes in which the user is advised to turn on the wireless end device . The time frames may be fixed or may vary. Should statistical data indicate that people need more time to turn on the wireless end devices the time frames may be lengthened. In some cases the screen providing the time frame may continue to be displayed until the time frame comes to an end. In other words if for example a web page includes a message advising the user to turn on the wireless end device within the next 10 minutes that web page may be displayed for 10 minutes and then refresh to remove the message. In some examples the screen may include a clock showing the user how much time he she has left to turn on the device. If the user fails to turn on the device within the time frame provided he she might have to re select the activate device option to activate the device. Moreover after displaying the screen with instructions to turn on the wireless end device the activation portal may be exited. For example in the case where a web browser is used to access the activation portal the user may be logged out automatically. Or in the case where a program is launched the program may close or return to a home screen.

In some embodiments rather than navigate to an activation portal various other actions may be taken to indicate the desire to activate a device. For example the wireless end device or its packaging may be configured with an RFID tag. In such a case the RFID tag may be placed within range of an RFID reader which may be connected to a gateway to trigger a gateway to send information to the backend system indicating a user s intention to connect an end device to a local network at the premises. Alternatively NFC communication may be used to send a signal from the end device to an NFC interface coupled to a gateway in order to trigger the backend system to begin the provisioning process. In light of these examples further actions should be understood as being within the scope of this disclosure.

After step the backend system may identify the premises at which the user intends to activate a wireless device at step . Specifically in response to receiving information indicating that an activate device option was selected the backend system may identify the corresponding premises at step . Step may include comparing user account information premises location information and or gateway IDs in the information received with user account information stored in the backend system e.g. in application server or in a device coupled to the backend system e.g. a database internal or external to the local office and coupled to application server to discover matches. Referring to if a user selects the activate device option using the gateway in the premises the backend system of the local office may identify the premises at step because it knows that gateway of premises is associated with premises . Alternatively if a user associated with premises e.g. lives at premises works at premises or pays the bill for receiving services through the gateway at premises accesses the activation portal via a web browser using a tablet and selects the activate device option the backend system may identify that an end device is to be added to premises at step based on user account information of the user logged into the activation portal.

In step the backend system may determine a set of candidate gateways to monitor. As described herein the wireless end device may connect to an unintended local wireless network. For example the wireless end device may connect to a local wireless network at a neighboring premises. Referring to for example a user in premises may attempt to incorporate a new wireless end device into a local network at premises but when the wireless end device is turned on for the first time it might connect to a local network at premises . In light of this circumstance the backend system may include the gateway on premises in its set of candidate gateways to monitor. Thus if the wireless end device undesirably connects to the gateway on premises the backend system may still identify the wireless end device .

Referring to if a wireless end device is to be connected at a first target gateway Target 1 then the backend system at the local office may determine that all gateways in Zone 1 are candidates that should be monitored to detect a new wireless end device . In this case Zone 1 may correspond to all gateways on the same branch Branch 2. In another case where the wireless end device is to be connected at a second target gateway Target 2 the backend system may determine that all gateways in Zone 2 are candidates that should be monitored to detect a new wireless end device . Here Zone 2 may include all gateways in the network within a certain distance of e.g. radius from the second target gateway Target 2. The local office may store the geographical coordinates of each gateway in the network . Therefore the local office may use this information to determine which gateways are within a predetermined distance e.g. 50 meters 100 meters 250 meters 500 meters etc. from the geographical location of the target gateway so that it may establish a set of candidate gateways. Additionally or alternatively the backend system may receive an IP address of a device used to access the activation portal and identify candidate gateways in the surrounding area based on the IP address.

Returning to after determining the candidate gateways the backend system may begin monitoring information received from the candidates at step . This monitoring may include separately evaluating some or all data received at local office from the candidate gateways to determine whether any portion of the data indicates that a new end device is being added to a local network. When a new end device is added to a local network the gateway of that local network may generate data and send the data to the local office . The data may include a header or other information indicating that the data relates to an end device that has been newly added to a local network. For example a gateway in accordance with the present disclosure may generate a data structure including information e.g. a predetermined code representing that a new end device has been added as well as information describing the end device e.g. information indicating a type of end device serial number of the end device or model of the end device . Use of such a data structure may facilitate quick evaluation of whether any candidate gateways are reporting new end devices . The local office or backend system may receive numerous data e.g. requests for content requests for service responses to polls etc. from gateways and or other devices so the data structure and backend system may be configured e.g. programmed to readily discern the data structure having information regarding a new end device from other types of data.

In some embodiments the data structure may include an IP address and or MAC address of the end device and or an IP address and or MAC address of the gateway transmitting the data structure.

Also at step the backend system may store a start time at which the backend system begins to monitor the candidate gateways. The start time may be an actual time e.g. 1 15 pm based on universal time or a pseudo time based on an internal clock. The backend system may store such a time so that it can keep track of how long it has been monitoring the candidate gateways . In some embodiments if a predetermined amount of time elapses from the start time the backend system may stop monitoring the candidate gateways .

In step a user may be directed to turn on the wireless end device . Step may be optional. In some embodiments where the user is directed to turn on the wireless end device immediately after selecting the activate device options in the activation portal as described above a separate step of directing the user to turn on the wireless device might not be performed at step . Still in some embodiments step may be performed in addition to directing the user in the activation portal. In step a pop up message may be displayed on a display device e.g. a television connected to the gateway to direct the user to turn on the device. For example after a user at premises choses to activate an end device e.g. using a tablet or smartphone a pop up message may be displayed on the television at the premises to instruct the user to turn on the end device . Displaying the pop up message may include turning on the display device if it is off or may include displaying a separate window overlaying content being displayed on the display device . Additionally or alternatively the message to direct the user to turn on the end device may be displayed on a screen e.g. LED screen of the gateway . The message could also be in the form of an audio message output through speakers e.g. speakers of a display device or a separate audio system . In some embodiments the audio message may be a short sound bit e.g. a beep chime or series of beeps chimes that symbolize to the user that he she should turn on the wireless end device . Similarly the message may be in the form of a light e.g. green light or a blinking light to symbolize to the user that the wireless end device should be turned on.

Step may be performed in response to receiving a signal from the backend system or local office at the gateway where the user is attempting to connect the wireless end device . The signal may be sent when the backend system starts monitoring in step . Alternatively the gateway may be triggered to direct the user to turn on the end device by the activation portal. The activation portal may cause the gateway to output a message after a predetermined amount of time from the time at which the user selects the activate device option . This predetermined amount of time may correspond to an estimated amount of time that it takes for the backend system to perform steps . Accordingly the user can be directed to turn on the wireless end device after the backend provisioning system is set up to monitor candidate gateways .

In step the user may turn on the wireless end device . This may include flipping a power switch plugging the wireless end device into a power outlet and or charging and or installing batteries. If the wireless end device is already on the user may reset the wireless end device so that it reboots. Once the wireless end device is turned on or boots up it may automatically begin to attempt to connect to a local wireless network at step . The wireless end device may be preconfigured or pre programmed e.g. with firmware so that it begins the process of attempting to connect to a local wireless network upon being turned on. Alternatively the wireless end device may have a separate button or switch that may be manipulated to trigger the process of attempting to connect to the local wireless network.

In some embodiments the wireless end device and a nearby gateway may both be configured to support the IEEE 802.1x standard for communication. If so the wireless end device and gateway may communicate with one another to connect the wireless end device to the gateway using processes set forth in the IEEE 802.1x standard. Alternatively instead of using the processes of the IEEE 802.1x standard the gateway may transmit an activation SSID. After identifying the target premises in step the backend system may send a signal to a gateway at the target premises to instruct the gateway at the target premises to broadcast the activation SSID. The backend system may help to ensure that the wireless end device is connected to the correct gateway by regulating which gateways in the vicinity of the target premises are broadcasting the activation SSID. For example referring to the backend system might keep the gateway at premises from broadcasting the activation SSID e.g. by instructing it to stop broadcasting the activation SSID or by making sure not to provide it with instructions to broadcast the activation SSID while the gateway at premises is broadcasting the activation SSID in order to connect the new wireless end device . Alternatively rather than being broadcasted in response to an instruction from the backend system the activation SSID may be broadcasted intermittently e.g. every 10 seconds or continuously e.g. back to back .

The activation SSID may be wall gardened and designated only for provisioning end devices . In other words the activation SSID may be hidden from users. Hence a user of the gateway broadcasting the activation SSID might not know the value of the activation SSID. However the wireless end device may be preconfigured with the activation SSID so that it may communicate with the gateway broadcasting that activation SSID. A plurality of gateways or all gateways of a service provider may be configured to broadcast the same activation SSID so that the wireless end device may be compatible with any such gateway . In other words gateways at different premises may broadcast the same activation SSID so that the wireless end device preconfigured with the activation SSID can be installed at various premises without entering specific local network information. For example the gateways in the first premises and the second premises of may both broadcast the same activation SSID e.g. particularly if both gateways are supplied by the same service provider . Notably because multiple gateways may transmit the same activation SSID the wireless end device may undesirably connect to the wrong gateway. As explained above the wireless end device may connect to a gateway on e.g. a neighboring premises.

In some embodiments different end devices may be preconfigured with different activation SSIDs and so gateways may be configured to broadcast multiple activation SSIDs. For example end devices produced by different manufacturers may be configured with different activation SSIDs. Also for example different types of end devices e.g. cameras motion sensors lights STBs etc. may be associated with different activation SSIDs. Further the backend system may provide instructions to the gateways indicating which activation SSIDs they should broadcast. The backend system may store which end devices are preconfigured with which activation SSIDs. Thus for example if a user scans a box of a new end device with a bar code reader to initiate activation of the end device or some other action triggers activation of the end device the backend system may look up which device was scanned determine a corresponding activation SSID and then instruct the gateway at the target premises to broadcast that activation SSID.

Once the wireless end device is connected to the gateway whichever gateway it is connected to may report the connection to the backend system at step . For example if the wireless end device is connected to the gateway on premises then that gateway may transmit data to the local office indicating that the wireless end device has been newly added at premises . However if the wireless end device is connected to the gateway on premises then that gateway may transmit data to the local office indicating that the wireless end device has been newly added at premises . The data transmitted to the local office from the gateways may be included within certain data structures to facilitate detection of the new wireless end device by the backend system. As described above the gateways may be configured to generate a data structure including information representing that a new end device is connected thereto and or information describing the new end device . For example the gateway may generate a data structure with the IP address and or MAC address of the new wireless end device and transmit that data structure to the backend system so that the backend system can subsequently communicate with the wireless end device .

In some embodiments the wireless end device upon connecting to the gateway using the activation SSID may be configured to report its new connectivity to the backend system. The gateway may provide the wireless end device with the backend system address or the wireless end device may be preconfigured with the backend system address or a list of backend system addresses . In such cases the wireless end device may provide the backend system with its IP address its MAC address information identifying the gateway it is connected to e.g. an IP address MAC address serial number of the gateway and or other information identifying itself e.g. information identifying its model number device type e.g. camera sensor etc. communication protocols etc. .

In step the backend system may determine whether a new end device has been connected to a local network. This determination may be made by evaluating the data structure s received in step . More specifically the backend system may evaluate data from each of the candidate gateways identified in step to determine whether a data structure received from one of the candidate gateways indicates that the wireless end device has been connected to that gateway . By evaluating the data from each of the candidate gateways the backend system may detect the wireless end device even if the wireless end device connects to the wrong premises e.g. a neighbor s premises . Where the report of connectivity sent in step is provided to the backend system from the wireless end device detection at step may include reading evaluating the report to determine that the report indicates that a new end device has been connected.

If a new end device is not detected at step step may be performed to determine whether a predetermined amount of time has elapsed since the backend system began monitoring the candidate gateways . To make this determination the backend system may reference the start time stored in step . Specifically the backend system may compute the difference between a current time e.g. time of the determination and the start time and compare the difference with a predetermined threshold e.g. 2 minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes etc. . The predetermined threshold may be set so as to give the user time to turn on the device and allow time for the device to power on and connect to the gateway using the activation SSID. In some cases the user may designate or otherwise choose this threshold e.g. from a list of possible thresholds through the activation portal when initiating activation of the new end device . If the threshold has not been exceeded e.g. the predetermined time is not elapsed the backend system may continue to monitor data received from the candidate gateways. Where multiple similar devices are being connected at two premises e.g. homes in close proximity at the same or approximately the same time the remote location computing device may coordinate among the premises to delay registration of one device until the other premises has correctly registered the competing device. Also the backend system could assign different time windows for different users to turn on their devices so if a device detected in that window it would more likely be the device in that premises. Additionally in this unlikely circumstance the system may require additional information such as a serial number.

If the backend system determines that the threshold has been exceeded e.g. the predetermined time has elapsed at step the backend system may instruct the gateway at the premises associated with the user who selected the active device option to inform the user that a time for connecting the new device has expired. For example if a user associated with premises fails to turn on the wireless end device or the wireless end device is not detected within a certain period of time the local office may send information to the gateway at the premises to instruct the gateway to notify the user accordingly. The user may be notified of the expired time in any of the manners described above with respect to step . For example a gateway may display a message on a television connected thereto. The message may indicate that the time has expired. Additionally or alternatively the message may instruct the user to reset the wireless end device and or return to the activation portal to re select the activate device option . In some embodiments when time elapses the backend system may instruct the gateway to re broadcast the activation SSID or try a different activation SSID .

Returning to step if the new wireless end device is detected step may be performed to associate the wireless end device with the premises identified in step . Step may also include associating the wireless end device with the user account that is associated with the premises. For example after detecting the wireless end device being added to premises the wireless end device may be associated with the user account that is associated with providing service e.g. cable television service or home security service to the premises .

Further step may include storing information related to the wireless end device . In particular the backend system may store information describing the wireless end device that is received in the report at step . For example if the wireless end device is a security camera being connected to premises the backend system may update a security system profile affiliated with the premises to identify the make and model of the camera serial number of the camera and or a list of capabilities of the camera. The backend system may also receive and store information such as a MAC address and or IP address of the end device and or connection e.g. WiFi connection characteristics of the end device e.g. capacity noise level type speed etc. . After the wireless end device is connected using the activation SSID in step the backend system and wireless end device may exchange one or more communications so that the backend system may acquire various information regarding the wireless end device and store such information in association with a user account.

In step the backend system may communicate with the new wireless end device to provide the new wireless end device with the local network information e.g. home business SSID password etc. of the premises where the wireless end device is being added. For example referring to if the wireless end device is being added to premises the backend system may provide the wireless end device with the specific local network information e.g. home SSID of the gateway on the premises . If the same wireless end device was being added to premises the backend system would send the specific local network information e.g. home SSID of the gateway on the premises . Notably the home SSID at premises may be different from the home SSID at premises as these may be set up by the users at the respective homes. As a result of step the wireless end device may receive the local network information of a target premises without requiring a user to enter the local network information into the wireless end device . Further it should be understood that the wireless end device may receive the local network information of the target premises even though the wireless end device may be initially connected using the activation SSID to a gateway at a different premises e.g. a premises other than the target premises . Because the backend system may be notified of the wireless end device by various gateways it may learn of the wireless end device s location even when it is connected to an undesired gateway. Moreover the backend system may correct the situation by sending the correct local network information of the target premises to the wireless end device thereby forcing the wireless end device to disconnect from the wrong gateway and connect to the right one.

To support step the backend system may employ a database with local network information for each gateway that it may service. For example referring to the local office may include a specific local SSID for each gateway it is connected to. Such local network information may be stored in association with user account information which may include username and password for the activation portal additional information about one or more premises e.g. geographical location list of devices therein etc. billing information etc.

Alternatively rather than communicating directly with the new wireless end device the backend system may instruct the appropriate gateway which is identified in step to transmit its local network information to the wireless end device . In other words the gateway may act as an intermediary for providing the local network information. Other devices may also similarly act as intermediaries or proxies . For example an alarm panel may act as an intermediary for providing the local network information to a newly added security sensor type of end device . The instruction sent by the backend system may be included in a unicast signal sent downstream from the local office to e.g. the specific gateway on the premises where the wireless end device is being added. The gateway may store either locally or remotely the local network information of the local network on the premises at which the gateway is located. For example the gateway at the premises may store information related to a local network connecting the gateway and other end device s at the premises . The local network information may include the SSID of the local network e.g. a home SSID .

In some embodiments there may be multiple gateways at a single premises . If so the backend system may instruct each of the gateways on the premises to broadcast the local network information. This may provide a larger coverage area to which the local network information may be supplied and thus may increase the likelihood that the wireless end device on the premises may receive the local network information. Also at step in response to receiving the instruction from the backend system the gateway may transmit its local network information to the wireless end device . In the case where the wireless end device is connected to the wrong gateway e.g. a gateway at a premises other than the target premises the backend system may instruct the wrong gateway to provide the local network information of the correct gateway to the wireless end device or to disconnect from the wireless end device so that it may first connect to the correct gateway using the activation SSID. As a result the wireless end device may receive the local network information of a target premises without requiring a user to enter the local network information into the wireless end device .

In step the wireless end device may reconnect to the gateway using the local network information e.g. home SSID received in step . In other words instead of using the activation SSID to connect to the gateway the wireless end device may use the specific SSID of the local network to connect to the gateway . Various processes could be used to switch the wireless end device from using the activation SSID to using e.g. a home SSID. In some embodiments the wireless end device may restart or reboot in order to reconnect to the gateway using the local network information. The wireless end device may automatically restart in response to receiving the local network information. For example the wireless end device may be preconfigured e.g. programmed to restart when it receives the local network information. Additionally or alternatively the wireless end device may have an open application programming interface API and the backend system may instruct the wireless end device to restart through its API when it provides the local network information. In some examples instead of automatically restarting the wireless end device the backend system may instruct a user e.g. by displaying a message on a display device connected to the local network to restart the wireless end device . In any event when the switch occurs the wireless end device may overwrite the activation SSID with the local network SSID e.g. home SSID business SSID etc. . In some embodiments although the activation SSID may be overwritten with the local network SSID the wireless end device may still store a copy of the activation SSID. As such the wireless end device could later be installed and automatically provisioned at another premises using the activation SSID. Therefore for example if a user moved to a new home the user could bring the same wireless end device to their new home and automatically provision it there as described herein.

In step a user may confirm that the end wireless device has been successfully incorporated into the local network. This confirmation may be performed by first accessing a confirmation portal similar to the activation portal. For example a user may access a confirmation portal by controlling the gateway e.g. a set top box to navigate through a menu stored by the gateway . While confirming that the wireless end device is connected the user may assign a name to the wireless end device . For example if the wireless end device is a security camera monitoring a side door entrance to a house the user may assign a name such as the side door camera that makes it easy for the user to identify the wireless end device . Such a descriptive name may be used by the backend system to provide certain services such as notifying the user if the wireless end device malfunctions needs repair is running low on battery power etc.

Although example embodiments are described above the various features and steps may be combined divided omitted rearranged revised and or augmented in any desired manner to accommodate various use cases. For example in the backend provisioning process of the user may turn on the wireless end device prior to accessing the portal. In case of such a situation the backend system may request candidate gateways to report whether any devices have recently been turned on. Additionally the backend system may begin to monitor candidate gateways as described in step as the candidate gateways are determined in step . Various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in art. Such alterations modifications and improvements as are made obvious by this disclosure are intended to be part of this description though not expressly stated herein and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the foregoing description is by way of example only and not limiting. This patent is limited only as defined in the following claims and equivalents thereto.

