---

title: Benzyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridines and use thereof
abstract: The present application relates to novel benzyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridines, to processes for their preparation, to their use alone or in combinations for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, and to their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, in particular for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09605008&OS=09605008&RS=09605008
owner: BAYER PHARMA AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
number: 09605008
owner_city: Berlin
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140708
---
This application is a national stage entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 for International Application No. PCT EP2014 064547 filed Jul. 8 2014 which claims priority to European Patent Application Nos. 13175889.8 13175904.5 13175903.7 13175899.7 13175898.9 13175896.3 13175895.5 13175894.8 13175892.2 and 13175890.6 all filed Jul. 10 2013 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present application relates to novel benzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridines to processes for their preparation to their use alone or in combinations for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and to their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases in particular for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitrogen monoxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyse the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family known to date can be divided into two groups either according to structural features or according to the type of ligands the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one haem per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory centre. This is of central importance for the activation mechanism. NO can bind to the iron atom of haem and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Haem free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to bind to the central iron atom of haem but the stimulation by CO is much less than that by NO.

By forming cGMP and owing to the resulting regulation of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays an important role in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and also in disorders which are based on a disruption of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system can be suppressed which can lead for example to hypertension platelet activation increased cell proliferation endothelial dysfunction arteriosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure myocardial infarction thromboses stroke and sexual dysfunction.

Owing to the expected high efficiency and low level of side effects a possible NO independent treatment for such disorders by targeting the influence of the cGMP signal pathway in organisms is a promising approach.

Hitherto for the therapeutic stimulation of the soluble guanylate cyclase use has exclusively been made of compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO. The latter is formed by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attack at the central iron atom of haem.

In addition to the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

Some years ago a number of substances have been described which stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase directly i.e. without prior release of NO such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. Blood 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. Brit. J. Pharmacol. 120 1997 681 . The more recent stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase include among others BAY 41 2272 BAY 41 8543 and riociguat BAY 63 2521 see for example Stasch J. P. et al. Nat. Rev. Drug Disc. 2006 5 755 768 Stasch J. P. et al. ChemMedChem 2009 4 853 865. Stasch J. P. et al. Circulation 2011 123 2263 2273 . Interestingly some of these sGC stimulators for example YC 1 or BAY 41 2272 also exhibit PDE5 inhibitory action in addition to direct guanylate cyclase stimulation. In order to maximize the cGMP pathway it is pharmacologically desirable to stimulate the synthesis of cGMP and simultaneously to inhibit degradation via PDE 5. This dual principle is particularly advantageous in pharmacological terms for example Oudout et al. Eur. Urol. 2011 60 1020 1026 Albersen et al. J Sex Med. 2013 10 1268 1277 .

The dual principle is fulfilled in the context of the present invention when the inventive compounds exhibit an effect on recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell lines according to the study in B 2 as the minimal effective concentration MEC of 3 M and exhibit inhibition of human phosphodiesterase 5 PDE5 according to the study in B 3 as IC

Phosphodiesterase 5 PDE5 is the name of one of the enzymes which cleave the phosphoric ester bond in cGMP forming 5 guanosine monophosphate 5 GMP . In humans phosphodiesterase 5 occurs predominantly in the smooth musculature of the corpus cavernosum penis and the pulmonary arteries. Blockage of cGMP degradation by inhibition of PDE5 with for example sildenafil vardenafil or tadalafil leads to increased signals of the relaxation signalling pathways and specifically to increased blood supply in the corpus cavernosum penis and lower pressure in the pulmonary blood vessels. They are used for treatment of erectile dysfunction and of pulmonary arterial hypertension. As well as PDE5 there are further cGMP cleaving phosphodiesterases Stasch et al. Circulation 2011 123 2263 2273 .

As stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase WO 00 06568 and WO 00 06569 disclose fused pyrazole derivatives and WO 03 095451 discloses carbamate substituted 3 pyrimidinylpyrazolopyridines. 3 Pyrimidinylpyrazolopyridines with phenylamide substituents are described in E. M. Becker et al. BMC Pharmacology 1 13 2001. WO 2004 009590 describes pyrazolopyridines with substituted 4 aminopyrimidines for the treatment of CNS disorders. WO 2010 065275 and WO 2011 149921 disclose substituted pyrrolo and dihydropyridopyrimidines as sGC activators. As sGC stimulators WO 2012 004259 describes fused aminopyrimidines and WO 2012 004258 WO 2012 143510 and WO 2012 152629 fused pyrimidines and triazines. WO 2012 28647 discloses pyrazolopyridines with various azaheterocycles for treatment of cardiovascular disorders.

It was an object of the present invention to provide novel substances which act as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and also as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors dual principle and have an identical or improved therapeutic profile compared to the compounds known from the prior art for example with respect to their in vivo properties for example their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics and or their metabolic profile and or their dose activity relationship.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts the compounds comprised by formula I of the formulae mentioned below and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts and the compounds comprised by formula I mentioned below as working examples and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts if the compounds comprised by formula I mentioned below are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

Preferred salts in the context of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. Also encompassed are salts which are not themselves suitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolation or purification of the compounds according to the invention.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulphonic acids for example salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulphuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulphonic acid ethanesulphonic acid toluenesulphonic acid benzenesulphonic acid naphthalenedisulphonic acid formic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases by way of example and with preference alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 carbon atoms by way of example and with preference ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

In the context of the invention solvates refer to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which in the solid or liquid state form a complex by coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination is with water. Preferred solvates in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all the tautomeric forms.

The present invention also encompasses all suitable isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention. An isotopic variant of a compound according to the invention is understood here to mean a compound in which at least one atom within the compound according to the invention has been exchanged for another atom of the same atomic number but with a different atomic mass than the atomic mass which usually or predominantly occurs in nature. Examples of isotopes which can be incorporated into a compound according to the invention are those of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulphur fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine such as H deuterium H tritium C C N O O P P S S S S F Cl Br I I I and I. Particular isotopic variants of a compound according to the invention especially those in which one or more radioactive isotopes have been incorporated may be beneficial for example for the examination of the mechanism of action or of the active ingredient distribution in the body due to comparatively easy preparability and detectability especially compounds labelled with H or C isotopes are suitable for this purpose. Furthermore the incorporation of isotopes for example of deuterium can lead to particular therapeutic advantages as a consequence of greater metabolic stability of the compound for example an extension of the half life in the body or a reduction in the active dose required such modifications of the compounds according to the invention may therefore in some cases also constitute a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention can be prepared by the processes known to those skilled in the art for example by the methods described below and the procedures described in the working examples by using corresponding isotopic modifications of the respective reagents and or starting compounds.

Moreover the present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. Here the term prodrugs refers to compounds which for their part can be biologically active or inactive but are converted for example metabolically or hydrolytically into compounds according to the invention during their dwell time in the body.

In the context of the present invention the term treatment or treating includes inhibition retardation checking alleviating attenuating restricting reducing suppressing repelling or healing of a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem or the development the course or the progression of such states and or the symptoms of such states. The term therapy is understood here to be synonymous with the term treatment .

The terms prevention prophylaxis or preclusion are used synonymously in the context of the present invention and refer to the avoidance or reduction of the risk of contracting experiencing suffering from or having a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem or a development or progression of such states and or the symptoms of such states.

The treatment or prevention of a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem may be partial or complete.

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I A 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I B 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 5 fluoro 1 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I C 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I D 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 4 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I E 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 4 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I F 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 4 chloro 2 fluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I G 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 4 chloro 2 fluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I H 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1 2 3 6 trifluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I I 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1 2 3 6 trifluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I J 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I K 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I L 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I M 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I N 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 5 fluoro 1 3 fluoro 4 methylbenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I O 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 3 fluoro 4 methylbenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I P 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 3 difluoro 4 methylbenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I Q 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 3 difluoro 4 methylbenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one and the structural formula I R 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 3 difluoro 4 methylbenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one and the structural formula I S 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 3 difluoro 4 methylbenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one and the structural formula I T 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 5 fluoro 1 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one and the structural formula I U 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one and the structural formula I V 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one and the structural formula I W 

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compound having the systematic name 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one and the structural formula I X 

The compounds according to the invention act as potent stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and inhibitors of phosphodiesterase 5 have useful pharmacological properties and have an improved therapeutic profile for example with respect to the in vivo properties thereof and or the pharmacokinetic characteristics and or metabolic profile thereof. They are therefore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases in humans and animals.

The compounds according to the invention bring about vasorelaxation and inhibition of platelet aggregation and lead to a decrease in blood pressure and to a rise in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by a direct stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular rise in cGMP. In addition the compounds according to the invention enhance the action of substances which increase the cGMP level for example EDRF endothelium derived relaxing factor NO donors protoporphyrin IX arachidonic acid or phenylhydrazine derivatives.

The compounds according to the invention are suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular pulmonary thromboembolic and fibrotic disorders.

Accordingly the compounds according to the invention can be used in medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders such as for example hypertension resistant hypertension acute and chronic heart failure coronary heart disease stable and unstable angina pectoris peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias atrial and ventricular arrhythmias and impaired conduction such as for example atrioventricular blocks degrees I III AB block I III supraventricular tachyarrhythmia atrial fibrillation atrial flutter ventricular fibrillation ventricular flutter ventricular tachyarrhythmia Torsade de pointes tachycardia atrial and ventricular extrasystoles AV junctional extrasystoles sick sinus syndrome syncopes AV nodal re entry tachycardia Wolff Parkinson White syndrome of acute coronary syndrome ACS autoimmune cardiac disorders pericarditis endocarditis valvolitis aortitis cardiomyopathies shock such as cardiogenic shock septic shock and anaphylactic shock aneurysms boxer cardiomyopathy premature ventricular contraction PVC for the treatment and or prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders and ischaemias such as myocardial ischaemia myocardial infarction stroke cardiac hypertrophy transient and ischaemic attacks preeclampsia inflammatory cardiovascular disorders spasms of the coronary arteries and peripheral arteries oedema formation such as for example pulmonary oedema cerebral oedema renal oedema or oedema caused by heart failure peripheral circulatory disturbances reperfusion damage arterial and venous thromboses microalbuminuria myocardial insufficiency endothelial dysfunction to prevent restenoses for example after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTA transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCA heart transplants and bypass operations and also micro and macrovascular damage vasculitis increased levels of fibrinogen and of low density lipoprotein LDL and increased concentrations of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 PAI 1 and also for the treatment and or prophylaxis of erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction.

In the context of the present invention the term heart failure encompasses both acute and chronic forms of heart failure and also more specific or related types of disease such as acute decompensated heart failure right heart failure left heart failure global failure ischaemic cardiomyopathy dilated cardiomyopathy hypertrophic cardiomyopathy idiopathic cardiomyopathy congenital heart defects heart failure associated with heart valve defects mitral valve stenosis mitral valve insufficiency aortic valve stenosis aortic valve insufficiency tricuspid valve stenosis tricuspid valve insufficiency pulmonary valve stenosis pulmonary valve insufficiency combined heart valve defects myocardial inflammation myocarditis chronic myocarditis acute myocarditis viral myocarditis diabetic heart failure alcoholic cardiomyopathy cardiac storage disorders diastolic heart failure and systolic heart failure and acute phases of worsening of existing chronic heart failure worsening heart failure .

In addition the compounds according to the invention can also be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of arteriosclerosis impaired lipid metabolism hypolipoproteinaemias dyslipidaemias hypertriglyceridaemias hyperlipidaemias hypercholesterolaemias abetalipoproteinaemia sitosterolaemia xanthomatosis Tangier disease adiposity obesity and of combined hyperlipidaemias and metabolic syndrome.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities gangrene CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis rheumatic disorders and for promoting wound healing. The compounds according to the invention are also suitable for the treatment of muscular dystrophy such as Becker Kiener muscular dystrophy BMD and Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD .

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for treating urological disorders such as for example benign prostate syndrome BPS benign prostate hyperplasia BPH benign prostate enlargement BPE bladder outlet obstruction BOO lower urinary tract syndromes LUTS including Feline Urological Syndrome FUS disorders of the urogenital system including neurogenic overactive bladder OAB and IC incontinence UI such as for example mixed urinary incontinence urge urinary incontinence stress urinary incontinence or overflow urinary incontinence MUI UUI SUI OUI pelvic pain benign and malignant disorders of the organs of the male and female urogenital system.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of kidney disorders in particular of acute and chronic renal insufficiency and acute and chronic renal failure. In the context of the present invention the term renal insufficiency comprises both acute and chronic manifestations thereof as well as underlying or related kidney diseases such as renal hypoperfusion intradialytic hypotension obstructive uropathy glomerulopathies glomerulonephritis acute glomerulonephritis glomerulosclerosis tubulointerstitial diseases nephropathic diseases such as primary and congenital kidney disease nephritis immunological kidney diseases such as kidney graft rejection and immunocomplex induced kidney diseases nephropathy induced by toxic substances nephropathy induced by contrast agents diabetic and non diabetic nephropathy pyelonephritis renal cysts nephrosclerosis hypertensive nephrosclerosis and nephrotic syndrome which can be characterized diagnostically for example by abnormally reduced creatinine and or water excretion abnormally raised blood concentrations of urea nitrogen potassium and or creatinine altered activity of renal enzymes such as for example glutamyl synthetase altered urine osmolarity or urine volume increased microalbuminuria macroalbuminuria lesions on glomerulae and arterioles tubular dilatation hyperphosphataemia and or need for dialysis. The present invention also encompasses the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of sequelae of renal insufficiency for example pulmonary oedema heart failure uraemia anaemia electrolyte disturbances for example hyperkalaemia hyponatraemia and disturbances in bone and carbohydrate metabolism.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are also suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of asthmatic disorders pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH and other forms of pulmonary hypertension PH including left heart disease HIV sickle cell anaemia thromboembolisms CTEPH sarcoidosis COPD or pulmonary fibrosis associated pulmonary hypertension chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS acute lung injury ALI alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency AATD pulmonary fibrosis pulmonary emphysema for example pulmonary emphysema induced by cigarette smoke and cystic fibrosis CF . In addition the compounds mentioned can be used as bronchodilators.

The compounds described in the present invention are also active compounds for control of central nervous system disorders characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease demyelinization multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are also suitable for regulating cerebral blood flow and are thus effective agents for control of migraine. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of sequelae of cerebral infarction cerebral apoplexy such as stroke cerebral ischaemia and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain and tinnitus.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have antiinflammatory action and can therefore be used as antiinflammatory agents for the treatment and or prophylaxis of sepsis SIRS multiple organ failure MODS MOF inflammatory disorders of the kidney chronic intestinal inflammations IBD Crohn s disease UC pancreatitis peritonitis rheumatoid disorders inflammatory skin diseases and inflammatory eye diseases.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention can also be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of autoimmune diseases.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of fibrotic disorders of the internal organs such as for example the lung the heart the kidney the bone marrow and in particular the liver and also dermatological fibroses and fibrotic eye disorders. In the context of the present invention the term fibrotic disorders includes in particular the following terms hepatic fibrosis cirrhosis of the liver pulmonary fibrosis endomyocardial fibrosis nephropathy glomerulonephritis interstitial renal fibrosis fibrotic damage resulting from diabetes bone marrow fibrosis and similar fibrotic disorders scleroderma morphea keloids hypertrophic scarring also following surgical procedures naevi diabetic retinopathy proliferative vitroretinopathy and disorders of the connective tissue for example sarkoidosis .

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for controlling postoperative scarring for example as a result of glaucoma operations.

The compounds according to the invention can also be used cosmetically for ageing and keratinized skin.

Moreover the compounds according to the invention are suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of hepatitis neoplasms osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides the compounds according to the invention for use in a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The present invention further provides a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active compounds. The present invention further provides medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active compounds especially for the treatment and or prophylaxis of the aforementioned disorders. Preferred examples of suitable active compound combinations include 

Antithrombotic agents are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the platelet aggregation inhibitors the anticoagulants or the profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor by way of example and with preference aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor by way of example and with preference ximelagatran dabigatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as by way of example and with preference tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the inventive compounds are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor preferred examples being rivaroxaban DU 176b apixaban otamixaban fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist by way of example and with preference coumarin.

Hypotensive agents are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and the diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist by way of example and with preference nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker by way of example and with preference prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker by way of example and with preference propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist by way of example and with preference losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embusartan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor by way of example and with preference enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist by way of example and with preference bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor by way of example and with preference aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist by way of example and with preference spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a loop diuretic for example furosemide torasemide bumetanide and piretanide with potassium sparing diuretics for example amiloride and triamterene with aldosterone antagonists for example spironolactone potassium canrenoate and eplerenone and also thiazide diuretics for example hydrochlorothiazide chlorthalidone xipamide and indapamide.

Lipid metabolism modifiers are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors the ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and the lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor by way of example and with preference dalcetrapib BAY 60 5521 anacetrapib or CETP vaccine CETi 1 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist by way of example and with preference D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins by way of example and with preference lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor by way of example and with preference BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor by way of example and with preference avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor by way of example and with preference implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist by way of example and with preference pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist by way of example and with preference GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor by way of example and with preference ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor a preferred example being orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent by way of example and with preference cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor by way of example and with preference ASBT IBAT inhibitors for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist by way of example and with preference gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further provides medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention typically together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and for the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention may act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable manner for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival or otic route or as an implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Administration forms which function according to the prior art release the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in a modified manner and contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form are suitable for oral administration such as e.g. tablets non coated or coated tablets for example with enteric coatings or coatings that dissolve in a delayed manner or are insoluble and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets or films oblates films lyophilisates or capsules which disintegrate rapidly in the oral cavity for example hard or soft gelatine capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can bypass an absorption step e.g. intravenously intraarterially intracardially intraspinally or intralumbally or include an absorption e.g. intramuscularly subcutaneously intracutaneously percutaneously or intraperitoneally . Suitable administration forms for parenteral administration include injection and infusion formulations in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilizates or sterile powders.

For the other administration routes suitable examples are inhalable medicament forms including powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets films oblates or capsules for lingual sublingual or buccal administration suppositories ear or eye preparations vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams sprinkling powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted to the administration forms mentioned. This can be done in a manner known per se by mixing with inert nontoxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersing or wetting agents for example sodium dodecylsulphate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants for example ascorbic acid dyes e.g. inorganic pigments for example iron oxides and flavour and or odour correctants.

In general it has been found to be advantageous in the case of parenteral administration to administer amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results. In the case of oral administration the dose is about 0.001 to 2 mg kg preferably about 0.001 to 1 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts specifically as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active compound nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. For instance in some cases less than the aforementioned minimum amount may be sufficient while in other cases the upper limit mentioned must be exceeded. In the case of administration of greater amounts it may be advisable to divide them into several individual doses over the day.

The working examples which follow illustrate the invention. The invention is not limited to the examples.

The percentages in the tests and examples which follow are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration figures for liquid liquid solutions are each based on volume.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.40 ml min UV detection 208 400 nm.

MS instrument Waters Micromass Quattro Micro HPLC instrument Agilent 1100 series column YMC Triart C18 3 50 3 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.01 mol of ammonium carbonate mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile gradient 0.0 min 100 A 2.75 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A oven 40 C. flow rate 1.25 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument Waters Micromass QM HPLC instrument Agilent 1100 series column Agilent ZORBAX Extend C18 3.0 50 mm 3.5 micron mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.01 mol of ammonium carbonate mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile gradient 0.0 min 98 A 0.2 min 98 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A oven 40 C. flow rate 1.75 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 95 A 6.0 min 5 A 7.5 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.35 ml min UV detection 210 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters UPLC Acquity column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 97 A 0.5 min 97 A 3.2 min 5 A 4.0 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.3 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument Waters Micromass Quattro Micro HPLC instrument Agilent 1100 series column YMC Triart C18 3 50 3 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.01 mol of ammonium carbonate mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile gradient 0.0 min 100 A 2.75 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A oven 40 C. flow rate 1.25 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument Waters Micromass QM HPLC instrument Agilent 1100 series column Agilent ZORBAX Extend C18 3.0 50 mm 3.5 micron mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.01 mol of ammonium carbonate mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile gradient 0.0 min 98 A 0.2 min 98 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A oven 40 C. flow rate 1.75 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Thermo DFS Trace GC Ultra column Restek RTX 35 15 m 200 m 0.33 m constant helium flow rate 1.20 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 220 C. gradient 60 C. 30 C. min 300 C. maintained for 3.33 min .

58 g 340.027 mmol of 2 chloro 5 fluoro 6 methylnicotinonitrile preparation described in WO2007 41052 Example U 2 page 80 were initially charged in 1 2 ethanediol 580 ml and hydrazine hydrate 24.813 ml and 56.091 ml 340.027 mmol of diisopropylethylamine were then added. With stirring the mixture was heated at 80 C. for 16 h and then at 120 C. for 6 h. After cooling water 2.5 l and ethyl acetate 2.5 l were added and the mixture was filtered off with suction. The solid obtained was dried. This gave 28.4 g 47 of theory of the target compound.

28 g 168.5 mmol of 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 amine from Example 1A were initially charged in 1.32 l of THF and the mixture was cooled to 0 C. 41.45 ml 337.03 mmol of boron trifluoride diethyl ether complex were then added slowly. The reaction mixture was cooled to 10 C. A solution of 25.66 g 219.07 mmol of isopentyl nitrite in 166 ml of THF was then added slowly and the mixture was stirred for a further 30 min. The reaction solution was concentrated such that 75 of the THF were removed. 988 ml of acetone were added and the solution was cooled to 0 C. A solution of 32.84 g 219.07 mmol of sodium iodide in 412 ml of acetone was added dropwise to this solution and the mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h. The reaction mixture was poured into 5 l of ice water and extracted three times with in each case 750 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with 750 ml of saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient 9 1 to 1 1 . This gave 14.90 g 32 of theory of the title compound.

2.60 g 9.37 mmol of 5 fluoro 3 iodo 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine from Example 2A were initially charged in 35 ml of DMF. 3.67 g 11.26 mmol of caesium carbonate and 1.94 g 9.37 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 3 difluorobenzene dissolved in 10 ml of DMF were then added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was added to 200 ml of water and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 and the product fractions were concentrated. The product was purified further by chromatography column Sunfire C18 5 m 250 20 mm mobile phase 12 water 85 methanol 3 1 strength aqueous TFA solution flow rate 25 ml min temperature 40 C. wavelength 210 nm. This gave 2.67 g 71 of theory of the title compound.

A mixture of 2.47 g 6.13 mmol of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 3 iodo 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine from Example 3A and 0.576 g 6.43 mmol of copper I cyanide was initially charged in 12.1 ml of abs. DMSO in a flask which had been dried by heating and the mixture was stirred at 150 C. for 3 h. Ethyl acetate was added to the cooled reaction solution and the mixture was washed three times with a mixture of semisaturated ammonium chloride solution and concentrated ammonia solution 3 1 . The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient 15 1 to 10 1 then dichloromethane methanol 10 1 . This gave 780 mg of the target compound 42 of theory .

650 mg 1.56 mmol purity 77 of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide of the compound obtained in Example 5A were initially charged in 2.7 ml of THF and 0.49 ml 6.0 mmol of pyridine were added. With stirring 0.85 ml 6.0 mmol of trifluoroacetic anhydride was then slowly added dropwise and the mixture was then stirred at RT for 3 h. Water was added and the reaction solution was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The organic phases were combined washed once with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution once with 1 N aqueous hydrochloric acid and once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution then dried over sodium sulphate concentrated and dried under high vacuum overnight. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient 15 1 to 10 1 then dichloromethane methanol 10 1 . This gave 180 mg of the target compound 37 of theory .

The target compound was formed as a minor component during the preparation of starting material 4A. Flash chromatography gave 650 mg 26 of theory purity 77 of the target compound.

960 mg 3.18 mmol of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carbonitrile from Example 4A were initially charged in 9.47 ml of methanol. 0.69 ml 3.18 mmol of sodium methoxide in methanol was added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h. Another 10 ml of methanol were then added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 h. 204 mg 3.81 mmol of ammonium chloride and 0.71 ml 12.39 mmol of acetic acid were added and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 7 h. The solvent was concentrated and the residue was stirred with 38 ml of 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution at room temperature for 1 h. The precipitate was then filtered off and washed with water. This gave 1.0 g of the target compound 90 of theory purity 90 .

1.0 g 2.84 mmol purity 90 of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidamide from Example 6A were initially charged in 13.9 ml of ethanol and 1.58 ml 11.38 mmol of triethylamine and 0.19 ml 3.13 mmol of hydrazine hydrate 80 were added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at RT for 4 h and then added to 28 ml of a 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator at RT. The residue was stirred with diethyl ether and filtered off and the precipitate was dried under high vacuum. This gave 864 mg 89 of theory of the title compound. The filtrate was concentrated and dried under high vacuum. This gave an additional 144 mg 10 of theory purity 69 of the title compound.

1.61 g 8.53 mmol of dimethyl 2 2 dimethyl 3 oxobutanedioate described in C. J. A. Daley et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002 124 14 3680 3691 were initially charged in 21 ml of ethanol and heated to reflux. A suspension of 0.95 g 2.84 mmol of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide from Example 7A in 21 ml of ethanol was added dropwise. The mixture was heated under reflux overnight. After cooling a solid was filtered off with suction and washed with a little ethanol and the filtrate was concentrated. Acetonitrile was added to the residue. This resulted in the precipitation of a solid. The latter was filtered off and dried. This gave 570 mg 42 of theory of the title compound.

19.4 ml of phosphoryl chloride were added to 717 mg 1.52 mmol of methyl 2 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 hydroxy 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate the compound from Example 8A and the mixture was stirred at RT for 5.5 h. The reaction mixture was used directly for the subsequent reaction.

10 g 67.49 mmol of 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 amine were initially charged in 250 ml of THF and the mixture was cooled to 0 C. 17.11 ml 134.98 mmol of boron trifluoride diethyl ether complex were then added slowly and the reaction mixture was cooled to 10 C. A solution of 11.81 ml 87.74 mmol of isopentyl nitrite in 50 ml of THF was then added slowly and the mixture was stirred for a further 30 min. Cold diethyl ether 500 ml was then added dropwise. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 10 C. and the resulting solid was filtered off with suction and washed with cold diethyl ether. A little at a time the solid was added with foaming to a solution at 0 C. of 13.15 g 87.74 mmol of sodium iodide in 300 ml of acetone and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min. The reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The organic phases were combined and the solid was filtered off with suction. The filtrate was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. Diethyl ether and a few drops of methanol were added to the residue. The solid was filtered off with suction washed with diethyl ether and dried under high vacuum. This gave 11.67 g 67 of theory of the title compound.

1.76 g 6.78 mmol of 3 iodo 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine from Example 10A were initially charged in 13.3 ml of DMF and 3.31 g 10.17 mmol of caesium carbonate and 1.68 g 8.14 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 3 difluorobenzene were added. The mixture was stirred at RT for 7 h and then stored at 0 C. overnight. Water was then added to the reaction mixture. Ethyl acetate was added the mixture was stirred briefly and the phases were separated. The organic phase was washed once with water and the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution then dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated and the residue was dried under high vacuum overnight. This gave 3.00 g quantitative yield purity about 87 of the title compound.

3.00 g 6.78 mmol purity about 87 of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 3 iodo 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine crude from Example 11A and 0.768 g 8.58 mmol of copper I cyanide were initially charged in 40 ml of abs. DMSO in a flask which had been dried by heating and the mixture was stirred at 150 C. for 1.5 h. A mixture of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 3 1 and ethyl acetate was added to the cooled reaction solution and the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min and filtered off with suction through Celite . The filter residue was washed with ethyl acetate and the organic phase was separated off and washed four times with a mixture of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 3 1 . The organic phase was washed once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate concentrated and dried under high vacuum overnight. The title compound 2.55 g quantitative purity 84 was used without further purification for the next step.

2.22 g 6.55 mmol purity 84 of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carbonitrile from Example 12A and 0.354 g 6.55 mmol of sodium methoxide were initially charged in 20 ml of methanol and the mixture was stirred at RT for 4.5 h. 0.421 g 7.86 mmol of ammonium chloride and 1.46 ml 25.55 mmol of acetic acid were added and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 6 h. The reaction mixture was cooled the solvent was concentrated under reduced pressure 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was added to the residue up to pH 9 and ethyl acetate was added. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The precipitate was then filtered off washed with ethyl acetate and dried under high vacuum overnight. This gave 1.14 g of the target compound 48 of theory .

1.14 g 3.16 mmol of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidamide acetate from Example 13A were initially charged in 15 ml of ethanol and 1.76 ml 12.62 mmol of triethylamine and 0.192 ml 3.16 mmol of hydrazine hydrate 80 were added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred initially at 0 C. for 10 min and then overnight at RT. The reaction mixture was added to 70 ml of a 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed once with 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator at RT. The residue was dried under high vacuum. This gave 0.96 g 94 of theory of the title compound.

0.860 g 4.57 mmol of dimethyl 2 2 dimethyl 3 oxobutanedioate described in C. J. A. Daley et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002 124 14 3680 3691 was initially charged in 10 ml of ethanol and heated to reflux. A suspension of 0.95 g 2.84 mmol of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide from Example 14A in 25 ml of ethanol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred under reflux for 12 h. After cooling a precipitate was filtered off with suction and washed with a little ethanol and the filtrate was concentrated and dried under high vacuum. This gave 1.36 g 68 of theory purity 69 of the title compound crude which was used for the subsequent step without further purification.

9.0 ml of phosphoryl chloride were added to 1.36 g 2.99 mmol purity 69 of methyl 2 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 hydroxy 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate from Example 15A and the mixture was stirred at RT for 60 h. The reaction mixture was used without any further purification for the subsequent reaction.

Under argon 14.90 g 53.78 mmol of 5 fluoro 3 iodo 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine from Example 2A were initially charged in 150 ml of abs. DMF and 21.03 g 64.54 mmol of caesium carbonate and 8.42 g 53.78 mmol of 1 chloromethyl 4 methoxybenzene dissolved in 50 ml of DMF were then added. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was then added to 1000 ml of water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The collected organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by SFC chromatography column THAR SFC Super Chrom Prep 200 5 m 150 30 mm mobile phase 95 carbon dioxide 5 methanol pressure 150 bar flow rate 150 ml min temperature 38 C. wavelength 210 nm . This gave 12.95 g 61 of theory of the title compound.

A mixture of 11.80 g 29.71 mmol of 5 fluoro 3 iodo 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine from Example 17A and 2.93 g 32.72 mmol of copper I cyanide was initially charged in 94 ml of abs. DMSO in a flask which had been dried by heating and the mixture was stirred at 150 C. for 2 h. The cooled reaction solution was filtered through Celite and the filter residue was washed with 1.2 l of THF ethyl acetate 1 1 . The filtrate was washed with 940 ml of a 25 strength aqueous ammonia solution 830 ml of semiconcentrated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and 410 ml of saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 then dichloromethane methanol gradient . This gave 7.50 g 85 of theory of the target compound.

7.80 g 26.32 mmol of 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carbonitrile from Example 18A were initially charged in 120 ml of methanol THF dichloromethane 1 1 1 . 1.42 g 26.32 mmol of sodium methoxide in 10 ml of methanol were added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h. 1.55 g 28.98 mmol of ammonium chloride and 5.88 ml 102.74 mmol of acetic acid were added and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 2 h. Another 50 ml of methanol were added to the reaction mixture. The dichloromethane was distilled off and the mixture was stirred under reflux for 1 h. The solvent mixture was concentrated and the residue was stirred with about 160 ml of 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution at room temperature for 1 h. The residue was then filtered off and washed with water. This gave 8.15 g of the target compound 99 of theory .

7.0 g 21.22 mmol of 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidamide from Example 19A were initially charged in 94 ml of ethanol and 11.83 ml 84.88 mmol of triethylamine and 1.29 ml 21.22 mmol of hydrazine hydrate 80 were added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then added to 260 ml of a 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator at RT. The residue was dried under high vacuum. This gave 7.33 g 96 of theory purity about 91 of the title compound.

11.47 g 60.93 mmol of dimethyl 2 2 dimethyl 3 oxobutanedioate described in C. J. A. Daley et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002 124 14 3680 3691 were initially charged in 146 ml of ethanol and heated to reflux. A suspension of 7.33 g 20.31 mmol purity about 91 of 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide from Example 20A in 146 ml of ethanol was added dropwise. The mixture was heated under reflux overnight. After cooling a solid was filtered off and washed with ethanol and the filtrate was concentrated. About 30 ml of acetonitrile were added to the residue and the mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h. The solid was filtered off and dried. This gave 5.58 g 50 of theory purity about 85 of the title compound.

53.6 ml of phosphoryl chloride were added to 5.98 g 10.90 mmol purity about 85 of methyl 2 3 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 hydroxy 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate the compound from Example 21A and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. Another 20 ml of phosphoryl chloride were then added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 0.5 h. The reaction mixture was used directly for the subsequent reaction.

The reaction solution of methyl 2 5 chloro 3 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate from Example 22A was diluted with 500 ml of dry acetonitrile and then slowly added dropwise to 780 ml of a 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution strongly exothermic . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The organic phase of the reaction mixture was removed and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with dichloromethane. The organic phase was washed once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. This gave 5.27 g 89 of theory purity 80 of the target compound.

50 mg of this were purified by preparative HPLC RP18 column mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA . The product fractions obtained were taken up in dichloromethane and washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. 35 mg of the target compound were obtained.

1.0 g 1.85 mmol purity 80 of 3 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 23A were initially charged in 40.5 ml of acetonitrile water 2 1 4.05 g 7.38 mmol of ammoniumcerium IV nitrate were added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. 50 ml of water were added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h and then filtered off washed with water and dried under high vacuum. This gave 540 mg of the target compound 91 of theory .

19.8 g 76.35 mmol of 3 iodo 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine from Example 10A were initially charged in 190 ml of dichloromethane 246 mg 0.76 mmol of tetrabutylammonium bromide and 96 ml of 50 strength aqueous potassium hydroxide solution were added at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred vigorously. 16.2 ml 91.62 mmol of 2 chloromethoxy ethyl trimethyl silane were then added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and then at RT for 1 h. 2.7 ml 15.27 mmol of 2 chloromethoxy ethyl trimethyl silane were then added dropwise at RT and the mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h. The reaction mixture was stored at 20 C. overnight. Another 4.04 ml 22.90 mmol of 2 chloromethoxy ethyl trimethyl silane were then added dropwise at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and at RT for 1 h. The organic phase was separated off and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane gradient then dichloromethane ethyl acetate gradient . This gave 18.14 g 61 of theory of the title compound.

A mixture of 1.00 g 2.57 mmol of 3 iodo 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine from Example 25A and 0.253 g 2.83 mmol of copper I cyanide were initially charged in 10 ml of abs. dimethyl sulphoxide and the mixture was stirred at 150 C. for 3 h. A mixture of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 3 1 and ethyl acetate was added to the cooled reaction solution and the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min and filtered off through Celite . The filter residue was washed with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was separated off and washed three times with a mixture of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 3 1 until the aqueous phase was colourless. The organic phase was washed once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulphate concentrated and dried under high vacuum overnight. The title compound 0.74 g 76 of theory purity 76 was used without further purification for the next step.

12.33 g 42.75 mmol purity 76 of 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carbonitrile from Example 26A and 2.31 g 42.75 mmol of sodium methoxide were initially charged in 200 ml of methanol and the mixture was stirred at RT for 3 h. 2.74 g 51.30 mmol of ammonium chloride and 9.5 ml 166.72 mmol of acetic acid were added and the mixture was stirred under reflux for 8 h. The reaction mixture was cooled the solvent was concentrated under reduced pressure 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was added to the residue up to pH 9 and ethyl acetate was added. The mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min. The precipitate was then filtered off washed with ethyl acetate and dried under high vacuum overnight. This gave 9.01 g of the target compound 48 of theory .

9.33 g 25.52 mmol of 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidamide acetate from Example 27A were initially charged in 120 ml of ethanol and 14.3 ml 102.08 mmol of triethylamine and 1.55 ml 25.52 mmol of hydrazine hydrate 80 were added at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 10 min and then overnight at RT. The reaction mixture was added to 550 ml of a 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed once with 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator at RT. The residue was dried under high vacuum. This gave 8.41 g 97 of theory purity 94 of the title compound.

6.54 g 34.73 mmol of dimethyl 2 2 dimethyl 3 oxobutanedioate described in C. J. A. Daley et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002 124 14 3680 3691 were initially charged in 230 ml of ethanol and heated to reflux. 7.42 g 23.15 mmol of 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide from Example 28A were then added a little at a time. The reaction mixture was stirred under reflux overnight. After cooling a precipitate was filtered off and washed with a little ethanol. The filtrate was concentrated and dried under high vacuum. This gave the title compound crude which was used in the next step without further purification.

22 ml of tetrahydrothiophene 1 1 dioxide sulpholane and 11 ml of phosphorus oxytrichloride were added to 10.62 g 23.15 mmol of methyl 2 5 hydroxy 3 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate from Example 29A. The reaction mixture was kept at RT for 60 h and then used directly for the subsequent reaction.

The reaction solution of methyl 2 5 chloro 3 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate from Example 30A was diluted with 78 ml of dry acetonitrile and then slowly added dropwise to a 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution 245 ml cooled to 0 C. with the internal temperature being kept between 0 12 C. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature overnight. The two phase reaction mixture was freed from the solvent on a rotary evaporator. The mixture was then extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were concentrated 800 ml of diethyl ether were added to the residue and the mixture was washed three times with water 200 ml 400 ml 200 ml and once with aqueous sodium chloride solution concentrated and dried under high vacuum. Dichloromethane was added to the residue and the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was applied to a silica gel column and purified by silica gel chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane ethyl acetate gradient . This gave 4.05 g of the target compound 36 of theory purity 88 .

3.2 g 6.62 mmol purity 88 of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 31A were initially charged in 14 ml of dichloromethane and 14 ml of trifluoroacetic acid and the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure at 30 C. and the residue was dried under high vacuum. 33 ml of THF and 36.4 ml of a 2 N aqueous lithium hydroxide solution were then added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure at 50 C. 50 ml of water were added and the mixture was reconcentrated. The residue was dissolved in 70 ml of water and extracted three times with dichloromethane. The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 6 with concentrated aqueous hydrochloric acid and saturated with sodium chloride. The mixture was extracted five times with 2 methyltetrahydrofuran and the combined organic phases were concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was extracted with two portions 100 ml and 50 ml of methyl tert butyl ether and filtered off. The filter residue was dried under high vacuum. This gave 1.20 g 55 of theory purity about 90 of the title compound.

In a three necked flask fitted with thermometer dropping funnel and gas exhaust 7.39 g 58.19 mmol of oxalyl chloride were initially charged in 116 ml of abs. dichloromethane at 78 C. 9.08 g 116.38 mmol of dimethyl sulphoxide dissolved in 8 ml of abs. dichloromethane were then slowly added dropwise careful intensive evolution of gas with the internal temperature being kept between 70 C. and 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for another 5 min 7.63 g 52.90 mmol of ethyl 1 hydroxymethyl cyclopropanecarboxylate described in M. H. Parker et al. U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. 20120053146 dissolved in 196 ml of abs. dichloromethane were then slowly added dropwise with the internal temperature being kept between 70 C. and 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for another 10 min 26.72 g 264.51 mmol of triethylamine were then slowly added dropwise with the internal temperature being kept between 70 C. and 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for another 10 min and then warmed to RT over 2 h. The mixture was diluted with 700 ml of methyl tert butyl ether the precipitate was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated at 30 C. and 100 mbar. The residue was purified by flash chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane . This gave 7.30 g 97 of theory purity about 95 according to NMR of the title compound.

7.30 g 51.35 mmol of ethyl 1 formylcyclopropanecarboxylate from Example 33A and 3.16 g 59.06 mmol of ammonium chloride were initially charged in 9 ml of water and 9 ml of diethyl ether at 0 C. A solution of 2.52 g 51.35 mmol of sodium cyanide in 6.4 ml of water was added dropwise at 0 C. with the temperature of the reaction mixture being kept below 10 C. at all times. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for another 20 min and the phases were then separated. The aqueous phase was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure at RT and 100 mbar. This gave 8.99 g 104 of theory purity about 95 according to NMR of the title compound which were used for the next step without further purification.

The reaction was carried out analogously to the method known from the literature described in A. de Meijere et al. Eur. J. Org. Chem. 2004 3669 3678 . Apparatus three necked flask with thermometer septum with gas exhaust canula gas inlet tube. A gentle stream of hydrogen chloride was passed through the apparatus. The reaction flask was cooled to 20 C. bath temperature . 8.69 g 51.35 mmol of ethyl 1 cyano hydroxy methyl cyclopropanecarboxylate from Example 34A were dissolved in 26 ml of dry ethanol and slowly added dropwise under a stream of hydrogen chloride. The temperature of the reaction mixture in the flask was kept below 10 C. at all times. After the addition had ended the reaction mixture was saturated with hydrogen chloride at 20 C. about 10 min the cooling bath was removed and the mixture was then stirred at RT for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated at RT up to 7 8 mbar 28 ml of ice water were added to the residue 12.4 g of solid at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred initially at 0 C. for 30 min and then at RT overnight. 70 ml of ethyl acetate were added the reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 5 min and the phases were subsequently separated. The aqueous phase was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure at RT and 30 mbar. This gave 10.46 g 94 of theory purity about 90 according to NMR of the title compound which were used for the next step without further purification.

10.46 g 48.37 mmol of ethyl 1 2 ethoxy 1 hydroxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropanecarboxylate from Example 35A were initially charged in 300 ml of abs. diethyl ether and 24.19 g 278.21 mmol of activated manganese dioxide Fluka were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered with suction through Celite and the filter residue was washed with diethyl ether. The filtrate was concentrated on a rotary evaporator at RT and 70 mbar. This gave 7.42 g 72 of theory purity 95 according to NMR of the title compound.

Ethyl 1 ethoxy oxo acetyl cyclopropanecarboxylate 2.1 equivalents from Example 36A is initially charged in ethanol concentration about 0.2 molar and heated to reflux. 5 Fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide 1 equivalent from Example 20A suspended in a mixture of acetic acid ethanol 1 4.6 ratio by volume 20 equivalents of acetic acid concentration of 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide about 0.2 molar is then added a little at a time. The reaction mixture is stirred under reflux for 1 h. After cooling the reaction mixture is concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue is purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid or 0.1 TFA .

At 0 C. tetrahydrothiophene 1 1 dioxide sulpholane concentration about 0.1 0.2 molar and phosphoryl chloride 50 equivalents are added to ethyl 1 3 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 hydroxy 1 2 4 triazin 6 ylcyclopropanecarboxylate 1 equivalent from Example 37A. The reaction mixture is treated with ultrasound until all starting materials are dissolved and then stirred at 0 C. for 5 min. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 10 C. for 2 h and used directly for the subsequent reaction.

The reaction solution of ethyl 1 5 chloro 3 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 ylcyclopropanecarboxylate from Example 38A is diluted with dry acetonitrile concentration about 0.01 0.05 molar and then slowly added dropwise to a 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution cooled to 0 C. 72 ml of this ammonia solution per 1 mmol of ethyl 1 5 chloro 3 5 fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 ylcyclopropanecarboxylate with the internal temperature being kept between 0 12 C. strongly exothermic . The mixture is then stirred at room temperature for about 48 h. The reaction mixture is concentrated on a rotary evaporator. Water is added to the residue and the mixture is extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are washed twice with water and once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product is purified by preparative HPLC RP18 column mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid or 0.1 TFA . The product fractions obtained are taken up in dichloromethane and washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated.

3 5 Fluoro 1 4 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one from Example 39A 1 equivalent is initially charged in acetonitrile water 2 1 concentration about 0.05 molar ammoniumcerium IV nitrate 4 equivalents is added and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 4 h. Water is added to the reaction mixture and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 2 h and then filtered off washed with water and dried under high vacuum.

681 mg 3.18 mmol of ethyl 1 ethoxy oxo acetyl cyclopropanecarboxylate from Example 36A in 16 ml of ethanol were heated to reflux. 485 mg 1.51 mmol of 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide from Example 28A suspended in a mixture of 1.73 ml 30.27 mmol of acetic acid and 8 ml of ethanol were then added a little at a time. The reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 1 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 127 mg of the title compound 15 of theory purity 86 .

At 0 C. 2.5 ml of tetrahydrothiophene 1 1 dioxide sulpholane and 1.27 ml of phosphoryl chloride were added to 127 mg 0.23 mmol purity 86 of ethyl 1 5 hydroxy 3 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate from Example 41A. The reaction mixture was treated with ultrasound until all starting materials had been dissolved and then stirred at 0 C. for 5 min. The reaction mixture was then stirred at 10 C. for 90 min and used directly for the subsequent reaction.

The reaction solution of ethyl 1 5 chloro 3 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate from Example 42A was diluted with 30 ml of dry acetonitrile and then slowly added dropwise to a 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution 41 ml cooled to 0 C. with the internal temperature being kept between 0 12 C. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for about 48 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator. Water was added to the residue and the mixture was extracted three times with methyl tert butyl ether. The combined organic phases were washed twice with water and once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was used for the next step without further purification.

The crude product 3 6 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one from Example 43A was initially charged in 13 ml of dichloromethane and 13 ml of trifluoroacetic acid and the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure at 30 C. The residue was concentrated twice from dioxane and once from toluene under reduced pressure at 30 C. and then dried under high vacuum. 5 ml of THF and 5 ml of 5 strength aqueous ammonia solution were added and the mixture was kept at RT for 5 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure at 30 C. and the residue was concentrated twice from a mixture of 5 ml of THF and 5 ml of 5 strength aqueous ammonia solution under reduced pressure at 30 C. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 40 mg 46 of theory purity about 90 according to NMR of the title compound.

The reaction solution of methyl 2 5 chloro 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate from Example 9A was diluted with 72 ml of dry acetonitrile and then slowly added dropwise at 0 C. to 109 ml of a 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution strongly exothermic . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and then concentrated on a rotary evaporator at 50 C. 100 ml of water and 150 ml of dichloromethane were added to the residue and the mixture was vigorously stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The two phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted once with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated.

9.6 ml of abs. dioxane and 2.4 ml of acetic acid were added to the crude product and the mixture was stirred in a microwave at 100 C. for 8 h. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was stirred with water for 30 min. The solid obtained was filtered off and dried under high vacuum. 5.5 ml of ethanol were added to the solid. The suspension was heated to 50 C. and 3.3 ml of dichloromethane were added such that a clear solution was obtained. After cooling to 0 C. a first product fraction of the target compound was filtered off as a solid 241 mg . The filtrate was concentrated and 3 ml of ethanol were added. The suspension was heated to 50 C. and 1.5 ml of dichloromethane were added such that a clear solution was obtained. After cooling to RT a second product fraction of the target compound was filtered off as a solid 127 mg . The two product fractions were combined and lyophilized. This gave 368 mg 52 of theory purity 94 of the title compound.

20 mg 0.046 mmol of 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 1 were dissolved in 0.1 ml of THF gently warmed and then briefly sonicated and 0.046 ml of a 1 N sodium hydroxide solution was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 2 min and then at 50 C. for 5 min. The mixture was then concentrated and the product was dried under high vacuum. This gave 20 mg 91 of theory of the title compound.

The reaction solution of methyl 2 5 chloro 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate from Example 16A was diluted with 85 ml of dry acetonitrile and then slowly added dropwise to a 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution 78 ml cooled to 0 C. strongly exothermic internal temperature 0 12 C. . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The organic phase was separated off and concentrated on a rotary evaporator to about 30 ml and water was then added. The mixture was treated in an ultrasonic bath for 1.5 h. The solid was filtered off with suction washed with water and a little acetonitrile and dried under high vacuum. The residue was dissolved in DMF a few drops and dichloromethane and purified by flash chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient . The product fractions were concentrated and ethyl acetate and diisopropyl ether were added to the residue. The solid was filtered off with suction and dried under high vacuum. Since the product still contained a little DMF it was purified further as follows ethanol water were added to the crude product the mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 30 min and cooled in an ice bath and the product was washed with ethanol water and dried under high vacuum. The solid was dissolved in 60 ml of ethanol under reflux cooled and concentrated under reduced pressure to about 10 ml. The ethanol water filtrate from the first extraction experiment and 100 ml of water were added. The mixture was then briefly cooled in an ice bath and the solid was filtered off with suction washed with water and a little water ethanol and dried under high vacuum overnight. This gave 290 mg of the target compound 23 of theory .

14.7 mg 0.035 mmol of 3 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 3 were dissolved in 0.2 ml of THF and 0.035 ml of a 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 2 min and then at 50 C. for 5 min. The mixture was then concentrated and dried under high vacuum. This gave 15.4 mg 99.6 of theory of the title compound.

80 mg 0.255 mmol of 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 24A were initially charged in 2.7 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 333 mg 1.02 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 40 mg 0.19 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzene dissolved in 0.27 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was dissolved in dichloromethane methanol 1 N solution of ammonia in methanol 2 2 1 and purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 40 1 . This gave 7 mg of the target compound 6 of theory purity 98 .

100 mg 0.31 mmol purity 90 of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 32A were initially charged in 3.2 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 397 mg 1.22 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 54 mg 0.26 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzene dissolved in 0.32 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The mixture was then cooled and water and 0.5 ml of formic acid were added. The resulting precipitate was filtered off and washed with acetonitrile and the filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 20 mg of the target compound 16 of theory .

80 mg 0.255 mmol of 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 24A were initially charged in 2.7 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 333 mg 1.02 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 40.5 mg 0.19 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 4 difluorobenzene dissolved in 0.27 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was dissolved in dichloromethane methanol 1 N solution of ammonia in methanol 2 2 1 and purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 40 1 . This gave 17 mg of the target compound 15 of theory .

100 mg 0.31 mmol purity 90 of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 32A were initially charged in 3.2 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 397 mg 1.22 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 55 mg 0.26 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 4 difluorobenzene dissolved in 0.32 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was cooled and water and 0.5 ml of formic acid were added. The resulting precipitate was filtered off and washed with acetonitrile and the filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 29 mg of the target compound 22 of theory .

80 mg 0.255 mmol of 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 24A were initially charged in 2.7 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 333 mg 1.02 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 44 mg 0.19 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 4 chloro 2 fluorobenzene dissolved in 0.27 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was dissolved in dichloromethane methanol 1 N solution of ammonia in methanol 2 2 1 and purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 40 1 . This gave 24 mg of the target compound 21 of theory .

100 mg 0.34 mmol purity 90 of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 32A were initially charged in 3.2 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 441 mg 1.36 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 64 mg 0.29 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 4 chloro 2 fluorobenzene dissolved in 0.32 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was cooled and water and 0.5 ml of formic acid were added. The resulting precipitate was filtered off and washed with acetonitrile and the filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 30 mg of the target compound 21 of theory .

80 mg 0.255 mmol of 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 24A were initially charged in 2.7 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 333 mg 1.02 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 44.4 mg 0.19 mmol of 2 bromomethyl 1 3 4 trifluorobenzene dissolved in 0.27 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 40 1 . This gave 33 mg of the target compound 28 of theory .

100 mg 0.27 mmol purity 90 of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 32A were initially charged in 2.8 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 353 mg 1.08 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 56 mg 0.24 mmol of 2 bromomethyl 1 3 4 trifluorobenzene dissolved in 0.28 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was cooled water and 0.5 ml of formic acid were added and the product was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 38 mg of the target compound 32 of theory .

80 mg 0.255 mmol of 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 24A were initially charged in 2.7 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 333 mg 1.02 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 44.6 mg 0.19 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzene dissolved in 0.27 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 40 1 . This gave 26 mg of the target compound 21 of theory .

100 mg 0.31 mmol purity 90 of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 32A were initially charged in 3.2 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 397 mg 1.22 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 60 mg 0.26 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzene dissolved in 0.32 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was cooled and water and 0.5 ml of formic acid were added. The resulting precipitate was filtered off and washed with acetonitrile and the filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 33 mg of the target compound 25 of theory .

50 mg 0.16 mmol of 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 24A were initially charged in 0.5 ml of DMF 156 mg 0.48 mmol of caesium carbonate and 25.5 mg 0.12 mmol of 2 6 difluorobenzyl bromide were added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. Another 6.6 mg 0.032 mmol of 2 6 difluorobenzyl bromide were added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 40 1 . This gave 10.4 mg of the target compound 15 of theory .

100 mg 0.34 mmol purity 90 of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 32A were initially charged in 3.2 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 441 mg 1.36 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 60 mg 0.29 mmol of 2 bromomethyl 1 3 difluorobenzene dissolved in 0.32 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was cooled and water and 0.5 ml of formic acid were added. The resulting precipitate was filtered off and washed with acetonitrile and the filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 43 mg of the target compound 29 of theory .

80 mg 0.255 mmol of 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 24A were initially charged in 2.7 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 333 mg 1.02 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 38.9 mg 0.19 mmol of 4 bromomethyl 2 fluoro 1 methylbenzene dissolved in 0.27 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 40 1 . This gave 27 mg of the target compound 22 of theory purity 92 .

40 mg 0.135 mmol of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 32A were initially charged in 1.3 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 221 mg 0.677 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 20.6 mg 0.102 mmol of 4 bromomethyl 2 fluoro 1 methylbenzene dissolved in 0.13 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was cooled water and 0.3 ml of formic acid were added and the product was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 18.5 mg of the target compound 33 of theory .

100 mg 0.319 mmol of 3 5 fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 7 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 24A were initially charged in 3.4 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 416 mg 1.28 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 53 mg 0.24 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 3 difluoro 4 methylbenzene dissolved in 0.34 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 40 1 . This gave 22 mg of the target compound 14 of theory .

40 mg 0.135 mmol of 7 7 dimethyl 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 one from Example 32A were initially charged in 1.3 ml of DMF and heated to 80 C. 177 mg 0.542 mmol of caesium carbonate were added to the mixture. 25.5 mg 0.115 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 3 difluoro 4 methylbenzene dissolved in 0.13 ml of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The reaction mixture was cooled and water and 0.2 ml of formic acid were added. The resulting precipitate was filtered off with suction and washed with acetonitrile. The solid was dissolved in TFA DMF and then purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.05 formic acid . This gave 16.7 mg of the target compound 28 of theory .

3 5 Fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one 1 equivalent from Example 40A is initially charged in DMF concentration about 0.1 molar and heated to 80 C. Caesium carbonate 4 equivalents is added and the mixture is stirred for 10 min 1 Bromomethyl 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzene 0.75 equivalent dissolved in DMF concentration about 0.7 molar is then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture is then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The mixture is then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product is dissolved in dichloromethane methanol 1 N solution of ammonia in methanol 2 2 1 and purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol or alternatively by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA .

14.2 mg 0.044 mmol purity 90 of 3 46 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one from Example 44A were initially charged in 500 l of DMF and 142 mg 0.436 mmol of caesium carbonate were added. The mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred for 10 min 7.1 mg 0.034 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzene dissolved in 50 l of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The mixture was then cooled and 0.1 ml of water and 0.9 ml of formic acid were added. The mixture was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 formic acid . This gave 1.6 mg of the target compound 9 of theory .

3 5 Fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one 1 equivalent from Example 40A is initially charged in DMF concentration about 0.1 molar and heated to 80 C. Caesium carbonate 4 equivalents is added and the mixture is then stirred for 10 min 1 Bromomethyl 2 3 difluorobenzene 0.75 equivalent dissolved in DMF concentration about 0.7 molar is then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture is then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The mixture is then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product is dissolved in dichloromethane methanol 1 N solution of ammonia in methanol 2 2 1 and purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol or alternatively by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA .

10.0 mg 0.031 mmol purity 90 of 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one from Example 44A were initially charged in 352 l of DMF and 100 mg 0.307 mmol of caesium carbonate were added. The mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred for 10 min 5.1 mg 0.024 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 3 difluorobenzene dissolved in 35 l of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The mixture was then cooled and 0.1 ml of water and 0.9 ml of formic acid were added. The mixture was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 formic acid . This gave 2.6 mg of the target compound 20 of theory .

3 5 Fluoro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one 1 equivalent from Example 40A is initially charged in DMF concentration about 0.1 molar and heated to 80 C. Caesium carbonate 4 equivalents is added and the mixture is stirred for 10 min 1 Bromomethyl 2 3 difluoro 4 methylbenzene 0.75 equivalent dissolved in DMF concentration about 0.7 molar is then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture is then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The mixture is then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed twice with water. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The crude product is dissolved in dichloromethane methanol 1 N solution of ammonia in methanol 2 2 1 and purified by thick layer chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol or alternatively by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA .

10.0 mg 0.031 mmol purity 90 of 3 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl spiro cyclopropane 1 7 pyrrolo 2 3 e 1 2 4 triazin 6 5 H one from Example 44A were initially charged in 352 l of DMF and 100 mg 0.307 mmol of caesium carbonate were added. The mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred for 10 min 5.4 mg 0.024 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 2 3 difluoro 4 methylbenzene dissolved in 35 l of DMF were then added in 10 portions over a period of 10 min to the reaction mixture at 80 C. with about 1 min of stirring at 80 C. between the individual additions. The mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 10 min. The mixture was then cooled and 0.1 ml of water and 0.9 ml of formic acid were added. The mixture was purified by preparative HPLC RP C18 mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 formic acid . This gave 1.4 mg of the target compound 11 of theory .

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

The determination of the relaxant activity of the compounds according to the invention on isolated vessels was carried out as described in J P Stasch et al. Br J Pharmacol. 2002 135 333 343. Rabbits are stunned by a blow to the neck and exsanguinated. The aorta is removed freed from adhering tissue and divided into rings of a width of 1.5 mm. The rings are placed individually under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with carbogen and has the following composition in each case mM sodium chloride 119 potassium chloride 4.8 calcium chloride dihydrate 1 magnesium sulphate heptahydrate 1.4 potassium dihydrogenphosphate 1.2 sodium bicarbonate 25 glucose 10. The contractile force is determined with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitalized using A D transducers DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on linear recorders.

To produce a contraction phenylephrine is added to the bath cumulatively in increasing concentration. After several control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage in each case and the height of the contraction achieved is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. This is used to calculate the concentration needed to reduce the magnitude of the control value by 50 ICvalue . The standard administration volume is 5 l the DMSO content in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

The cellular activity of the compounds according to the invention is determined using a recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell line as described in F. Wunder et al. Anal. Biochem. 339 104 112 2005 .

Representative values MEC minimum effective concentration for the compounds according to the invention are shown in the table below Table 1 in some cases as means of individual determinations 

PDE 5 preparations are obtained from human platelets by disruption Microfluidizer 800 bar 3 passes followed by centrifugation 75000 g 60 min 4 C. and ion exchange chromatography of the supernatant on a Mono Q 10 10 column linear sodium chloride gradient elution with a 0.2 0.3M solution of sodium chloride in buffer 20 mM Hepes pH 7.2 2 mM magnesium chloride . Fractions having PDE 5 activity are combined PDE 5 preparation and stored at 80 C.

To determine their in vitro action on human PDE 5 the test substances are dissolved in 100 DMSO and serially diluted. Typically dilution series 1 3 from 200 M to 0.091 M are prepared resulting final concentrations in the test 4 M to 0.0018 M . In each case 2 l of the diluted substance solutions are placed into the wells of microtitre plates Isoplate 96 200W Perkin Elmer . Subsequently 50 l of a dilution of the above described PDE 5 preparation are added. The dilution of the PDE 5 preparation is chosen such that during the later incubation less than 70 of the substrate are converted typical dilution 1 100 dilution buffer 50 mM tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.5 8.3 mM magnesium chloride 1.7 mM EDTA 0.2 BSA . The substrate 8 H cyclic guanosine 3 5 monophosphate 1 Ci l Perkin Elmer is diluted 1 2000 with assay buffer 50 mM tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.5 8.3 mM magnesium chloride 1.7 mM EDTA to a concentration of 0.0005 Ci l. By addition of 50 l 0.025 Ci of the diluted substrate the enzyme reaction is finally started. The test mixtures are incubated at room temperature for 60 min and the reaction is stopped by adding 25 l of a suspension of 18 mg ml yttrium scintillation proximity beads in water phosphodiesterase beads for SPA assays RPNQ 0150 Perkin Elmer . The microtitre plates are sealed with a film and left to stand at room temperature for 60 min. Subsequently the plates are analysed for 30 s per well in a Microbeta scintillation counter Perkin Elmer . ICvalues are determined using the graphic plot of the substance concentration against percentage PDE 5 inhibition.

Representative ICvalues for the compounds according to the invention are shown in the table below Table 2 in some cases as means of individual determinations 

A commercially available telemetry system from DATA SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL DSI USA is employed for the blood pressure measurement on conscious rats described below.

The telemetry system makes it possible to continuously record blood pressure heart rate and body motion of conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR Okamoto with a body weight of 200 g. SHR NCrl from the Okamoto Kyoto School of Medicine 1963 were a cross of male Wistar Kyoto rats with highly elevated blood pressure and female rats having a slightly elevated blood pressure and at F13 handed over to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.

After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water.

The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6 00 am and at 7 00 pm.

The telemetry transmitters TA11 PA C40 used are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anaesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area of their abdomens. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fixed with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed.

An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of infection.

Unless stated otherwise the substances to be studied are administered orally by gavage to a group of animals in each case n 6 . In accordance with an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight the test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 tylose.

The telemetry measuring unit present is configured for 24 animals Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number Vyear month day .

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI .

The implanted transmitters can be activated externally by means of an incorporated magnetic switch. They are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The signals emitted can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for WINDOWS DSI and processed accordingly. The data are stored in each case in a file created for this purpose and bearing the experiment number.

The acquisition of measurements is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure Ambient Pressure Reference Monitor APR 1 and stored as individual data. Further technical details are given in the extensive documentation from the manufacturing company DSI .

Unless indicated otherwise the test substances are administered at 9.00 am on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours.

After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software DATAQUEST A.R.T. ANALYSIS . The blank value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration and so the selected data set encompasses the period from 7.00 am on the day of the experiment to 9.00 am the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average and transferred as a text file to a storage medium. The measured values presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated. For each day of the experiment the data obtained are stored in a dedicated file bearing the number of the experiment. Results and test protocols are filed in paper form sorted by numbers.

The organ protective effects of the compounds according to the invention are shown in a therapeutically relevant low nitric oxide NO high renin hypertension model in rats. The study was carried out analogously to the recently published article Sharkovska Y et al. J Hypertension 2010 28 1666 1675 . This involves treating renin transgenic rats TGR mRen2 27 to which the NO synthase inhibitor L NAME had been administered via drinking water simultaneously with the compound according to the invention or vehicle over several weeks. Haemodynamic and renal parameters are determined during the treatment period. At the end of the long term study organ protection kidney lung heart aorta is shown by histopathological studies biomarkers expression analyses and cardiovascular plasma parameters.

A telemetry system from DATA SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL DSI USA for example is employed for the blood pressure measurement on conscious dogs described below. The system consists of implantable pressure transmitters receiver and a data acquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to continuously monitor blood pressures and heart rate of conscious animals. The telemetry transmitters used are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled. The tests are carried out using adult male beagles. Technical details can be found in the documentation from the manufacturing company DSI .

The substances to be tested are each administered to a group of dogs n 3 6 orally via a gelatine capsule or intravenously in suitable solvent mixtures. A vehicle treated group of animals is employed as control.

For the measurements under hypoxia conditions the animals are transferred to a chamber with a hypoxic atmosphere oxygen content about 10 . This is established using commercially available hypoxia generators from Hoehenbalance Cologne Germany In a standard experiment for example one hour and five hours after substance administration the dogs are kept in the hypoxia chamber for 30 min. About 10 min before and after entering the hypoxia chamber as well as during the stay in the hypoxia chamber pressures and heart rate are measured by telemetry.

In healthy dogs under hypoxia there is a rapid increase in PAP. By substance administration this increase can be reduced. To quantify the PAP increase and the differences in heart rate and systemic blood pressure the data before and during the hypoxia period smoothed by determination of means are compared. The courses of the measured parameters are presented graphically using the Prism software GraphPad USA .

The pharmacokinetic parameters of the compounds according to the invention are determined in male CD 1 mice male Wistar rats female beagles and female cynomolgus monkeys. Intravenous administration in the case of mice and rats is effected by means of a species specific plasma DMSO formulation and in the case of dogs and monkeys by means of a water PEG400 ethanol formulation. In all species oral administration of the dissolved substance is performed via gavage based on a water PEG400 ethanol formulation. The removal of blood from rats is simplified by inserting a silicone catheter into the right Vena jugularis externa prior to substance administration. The operation is effected at least one day prior to the experiment with isofluran anaesthesia and administration of an analgesic atropine rimadyl 3 1 0.1 ml s.c. . The blood is taken generally more than 10 time points within a time window including terminal time points of at least 24 to a maximum of 72 hours after substance administration. The blood is removed into heparinized tubes. The blood plasma is then obtained by centrifugation if required it can be stored at 20 C. until further processing.

An internal standard which may also be a chemically unrelated substance is added to the samples of the compounds according to the invention calibration samples and qualifiers and there follows protein precipitation by means of acetonitrile in excess. Addition of a buffer solution matched to the LC conditions and subsequent vortexing is followed by centrifugation at 1000 g. The supernatant is analysed by LC MS MS using C18 reversed phase columns and variable mobile phase mixtures. The substances are quantified via the peak heights or areas from extracted ion chromatograms of specific selected ion monitoring experiments or high resolution LC MS experiments.

The plasma concentration time plots determined are used to calculate the pharmacokinetic parameters such as AUC C F bioavailability t terminal half life MRT mean residence time and CL clearance using a validated pharmacokinetic calculation program.

Since the substance quantification is performed in plasma it is necessary to determine the blood plasma distribution of the substance in order to be able to adjust the pharmacokinetic parameters correspondingly. For this purpose a defined amount of substance is incubated in heparinized whole blood of the species in question in a rocking roller mixer for 20 min. Plasma is obtained by centrifugation at 1000 g. After measurement of the concentrations in plasma and blood by LC MS MS see above the C Cvalue is determined by quotient formation.

To determine the metabolic profile of the compounds according to the invention they are incubated with recombinant human cytochrome P450 CYP enzymes liver microsomes or primary fresh hepatocytes from various animal species e.g. rats dogs and also of human origin in order to obtain and to compare information about a very substantially complete hepatic phase I and phase II metabolism and about the enzymes involved in the metabolism.

The compounds according to the invention were incubated with a concentration of about 0.1 10 M. To this end stock solutions of the compounds according to the invention having a concentration of 0.01 1 mM in acetonitrile were prepared and then pipetted with 1 100 dilution into the incubation mixture. Liver microsomes and recombinant enzymes were incubated at 37 C. in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 with and without NADPH generating system consisting of 1 mM NADP 10 mM glucose 6 phosphate and 1 unit glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase. Primary hepatocytes were incubated in suspension in Williams E medium likewise at 37 C. After an incubation time of 0 4 h the incubation mixtures were stopped with acetonitrile final concentration about 30 and the protein was centrifuged off at about 15000 g. The samples thus stopped were either analysed directly or stored at 20 C. until analysis.

The analysis is carried out by high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet and mass spectrometry detection HPLC UV MS MS . To this end the supernatants of the incubation samples are chromatographed with suitable C18 reversed phase columns and variable mobile phase mixtures of acetonitrile and 10 mM aqueous ammonium formate solution or 0.05 formic acid. The UV chromatograms in conjunction with mass spectrometry data serve for identification structural elucidation and quantitative estimation of the metabolites and for quantitative metabolic assessment of the compound according to the invention in the incubation mixtures.

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of corn starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

The mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 solution w w of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is pressed with a conventional tableting press for tablet dimensions see above . The guide value used for the pressing is a pressing force of 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

A single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention corresponds to 10 ml of oral suspension.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400. A single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention corresponds to 20 g of oral solution.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate while stirring. The stirring operation is continued until dissolution of the compound according to the invention is complete.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically acceptable solvent e.g. isotonic saline glucose solution 5 and or PEG 400 solution 30 . The solution is subjected to sterile filtration and dispensed into sterile and pyrogen free injection vessels.

