---

title: Systems and methods for providing secure access to local network devices
abstract: A computer-implemented method for providing secure access to local network devices may include (1) identifying a local area network that provides Internet connectivity to at least one device within the local area network, (2) obtaining, from an identity assertion provider, (i) a shared secret for authenticating the identity of a guest user of the device and (ii) a permission for the guest user to access the device from outside the local area network, (3) storing the shared secret and the permission within the local area network, (4) receiving, via the Internet connectivity, a request by the guest user from outside the local area network to access the device, and (5) providing access to the device in response to validating the request based on the shared secret and the permission. Various other methods and systems are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09525664&OS=09525664&RS=09525664
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09525664
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140228
---
Home networks are connecting an ever increasing number of devices in the home allowing home users to manage operate and automate a variety of home equipment from entertainment devices to utility connected devices. Unfortunately configuring access to devices on a home network may be a challenging task for non sophisticated users.

Some users may wish to provide guests in their homes with temporary access to some devices. However providing guests with home network access and or the local network address and password to access administrative interfaces of the devices may be burdensome for both the home owner and guest as well as insecure. On the other hand simply exposing a home device to the global Internet may open the device to attack by anyone.

Traditional approaches for providing access to devices on a home network such as Universal Plug and Play UPnP may offer too little control and security. Traditional approaches for controlling home network traffic such as Internet Protocol IP forwarding may be difficult for users to understand and properly configure.

Accordingly the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for additional and improved systems and methods for providing secure access to local network devices.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure describes various systems and methods for providing secure access to local network devices based on permissions for accessing the devices set through identity assertion providers by validating requests to access the devices with shared secrets obtained through the identity assertion providers.

In one example a computer implemented method for providing secure access to local network devices may include 1 identifying a local area network that provides Internet connectivity to at least one device within the local area network 2 obtaining from an identity assertion provider i a shared secret for authenticating the identity of a guest user of the device and ii a permission for the guest user to access the device from outside the local area network 3 storing the shared secret and the permission within the local area network 4 receiving via the Internet connectivity a request by the guest user from outside the local area network to access the device and 5 providing access to the device in response to validating the request based on the shared secret and the permission.

In some examples 1 storing the shared secret and the permission within the local area network may include storing the shared secret and the permission on a gateway that provides Internet connectivity to the local area network 2 receiving the request may include receiving authentication information at the gateway and 3 validating the request based on the shared secret and the permission may include validating the authentication information with the shared secret.

In some embodiments 1 the identity assertion provider may include a social networking service provider and 2 the permission for the guest user to access the device from outside the local area network may have been enabled via a social networking platform of the social networking service provider by an owner of the local area network.

In some examples receiving via the Internet connectivity the request by the guest user from outside the local area network to access the device may include receiving a message addressed to a port number assigned to the device on the local area network. In some embodiments providing access to the device in response to validating the request is also based on geolocation data identifying a current location of a guest device from which the request was sent. In some examples obtaining the shared secret and the permission from the identity assertion provider may be in response to authorizing the identity assertion provider to grant permissions on the local area network.

Another computer implemented method for providing secure access to local network devices may include 1 receiving on a social networking platform a request by a first user of the social networking platform to provide a second user of the social networking platform with access to a device within a local area network controlled by the first user 2 identifying an authentication system used for accessing the social networking platform 3 provisioning the local area network with authentication information for authenticating the second user of the social networking platform via the authentication system and 4 transmitting in response to receiving the request by the first user permission information from the social networking platform to the local area network that provides the second user with access to the device within the local area network controlled by the first user.

In some examples receiving the request by the first user to provide the second user of the social networking platform with access to the device may include 1 identifying an event on the social networking platform that is hosted by the first user and to which the second user is invited and 2 determining based at least in part on the second user being invited to the event that the second user is entitled to access to the device.

In some embodiments determining that the second user is entitled to access to the device may include determining that the second user is entitled to access to the device for a duration of the event as defined on the social networking platform. Additionally or alternatively determining that the second user is entitled to access to the device may include 1 identifying a device type of the device 2 identifying a role of the second user at the event 3 identifying a mapping between device types and guest roles and 4 determining based on the device type the role and the mapping between device types and guest roles that the role of the second user at the event entitles the second user to access to the device.

In some examples receiving the request by the first user to provide the second user of the social networking platform with access to the device may include 1 identifying a relationship between the first user and the second user on the social networking platform and 2 determining based on the relationship between the first user and the second user on the social networking platform that the second user is entitled to access to the device.

In some embodiments the device may provide a plurality of features and the permission information may specify whether the second user has permission to access each of the plurality of features of the device. In some examples transmitting the permission information from the social networking platform to the local area network may include transmitting the permission information to reside on a gateway device of the local area network that receives Internet communications. Additionally or alternatively transmitting the permission information from the social networking platform to the local area network may include transmitting the permission information to reside on the device.

In one embodiment a system for implementing the above described method may include 1 an identification module stored in memory that identifies a local area network that provides Internet connectivity to at least one device within the local area network 2 an obtaining module stored in memory that obtains from an identity assertion provider i a shared secret for authenticating the identity of a guest user of the device and ii a permission for the guest user to access the device from outside the local area network 3 a storing module stored in memory that stores the shared secret and the permission within the local area network 4 a receiving module stored in memory that receives via the Internet connectivity a request by the guest user from outside the local area network to access the device 5 a providing module stored in memory that provides access to the device in response to validating the request based on the shared secret and the permission and 6 at least one physical processor that executes the identification module the obtaining module the storing module the receiving module and the providing module.

In some examples one or more of the above described methods may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a non transitory computer readable medium.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The present disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for providing secure access to local network devices. As will be explained in greater detail below by validating requests to access devices on local area networks based on permissions for accessing the devices obtained through identity assertion providers and based on shared secrets obtained through the identity assertion providers the systems and methods described herein may allow home network owners to securely provide granular device access to guests. Additionally in some examples the identity assertion providers may include and or provide authentication services for social networking platforms. In these examples the systems and methods described herein may enable home network owners to provide device access to social networking contacts.

The following will provide with reference to detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for providing secure access to local network devices. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. computing device identity assertion provider device and or device computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

As illustrated in exemplary system may also include one or more databases such as database . In one example database may be configured to store one or more shared secrets for authentication with an identity assertion provider and or one or more permissions regulating access to devices connected to a local area network.

Database may represent portions of a single database or computing device or a plurality of databases or computing devices. For example database may represent a portion of computing device device and or local area network in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . Alternatively database in may represent one or more physically separate devices capable of being accessed by a computing device such as device in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in .

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a computing device in a local area network that is in communication with an identity assertion provider and a device via a network . In one example computing device may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database . Additionally or alternatively device may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database .

In one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor of computing device and or device enable computing device and or device to provide secure access to device e.g. to a guest user using a device . For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may cause computing device and or device to 1 identify local area network that provides Internet connectivity e.g. connectivity to and or via network to at least one device e.g. device within local area network 2 obtain from identity assertion provider i a shared secret for authenticating the identity of guest user of device and ii a permission for guest user to access device from outside local area network e.g. via device connected to network 3 store shared secret and permission within local area network 4 receive via the Internet connectivity a request by guest user from outside local area network e.g. via device and network to access device and 5 provide access to device in response to validating request based on shared secret and permission .

Computing device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of computing device include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems wearable devices e.g. smart watches smart glasses etc. gaming consoles combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device. In some examples computing device may represent a gateway and or router of local area network that directs Internet traffic to and from local area network .

Identity assertion provider generally represents any type or form of computing device platform and or service that is capable of facilitating the authentication of users. Identity assertion provider may include one or more application servers and or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. In some examples identity assertion provider may include a social networking platform and or provide authentication for a social networking platform.

Device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of computing device include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems wearable devices e.g. smart watches smart glasses etc. gaming consoles combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Device generally represents any type or form of device capable of interfacing with a local area network. Examples of device include without limitation home automation devices home entertainment devices home security devices desktops servers multimedia players embedded systems gaming consoles combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation the Internet a Wide Area Network WAN Power Line Communications PLC a cellular network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Local Area Network LAN a Personal Area Network PAN an intranet exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between local area network identity assertion provider and device .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify a local area network that provides Internet connectivity to at least one device within the local area network. For example identification module may as part of computing device in identify local area network that provides Internet connectivity e.g. connectivity to and or via network to at least one device e.g. device within local area network .

The local area network may include a network at any of a variety of sites. For example the local area network may include a home network an office network a business network e.g. a network for a hotel and or any other network with connected devices to which a network owner and or administrator may wish to grant a guest access.

The device may include any type or form of device capable of interfacing with a local area network. For example the device may include a home automation device e.g. to control one or more lights and or heating ventilation and or air conditioning systems . In some examples the device may include a home security device e.g. to control one or more locks doors garage doors motion sensors door and or window sensors and or alarms . Additionally or alternatively the device may include a multimedia device e.g. audio and or video devices cameras etc. .

The local area network may provide Internet connectivity to the device in any suitable manner. For example the local area network may provide Internet connectivity to the device by means of a gateway within the local area network. As used herein the term gateway may refer to a gateway a router and or any other networking device that may connect a local area network to the Internet that may filter and or direct incoming traffic to a local area network and or that may provide connectivity to the device within the local area network. In some examples the local area network may provide Internet connectivity to the device by forwarding external Internet Protocol IP requests to the device e.g. based on a port specified in the IP request .

Identification module may identify the local area network in any suitable context. For example identification module may execute on a gateway device for the local area network. In this example identification module may identify the local area network by executing on the gateway device.

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may obtain from an identity assertion provider i a shared secret for authenticating the identity of a guest user of the device and ii a permission for the guest user to access the device from outside the local area network. For example obtaining module may as part of computing device in obtain from identity assertion provider i shared secret for authenticating the identity of guest user of device and ii permission for guest user to access device from outside local area network e.g. via device connected to network .

As used herein the phrase identity assertion provider may refer to any entity service and or platform that is capable of facilitating the authentication of users. In some examples the identity assertion provider may provide federated identity management. For example the identity assertion provider may provide a single sign on SSO service for authenticating users across multiple services. The identity assertion provider may use any of a variety of standards and or protocols to provide authentication services. For example the identity assertion provider may use OAUTH Security Assertion Markup Language SAML and or OPENID. In some examples the identity assertion provider may include and or may provide authentication services for a social networking platform. Examples of identity assertion providers may include without limitation GOOGLE FACEBOOK and SYMANTEC O3.

As used herein the phrase social networking platform may refer to any computing device and or devices software framework and or combination thereof usable for providing and or hosting a social networking service e.g. via the Internet . As used herein the phrase social networking service may refer to any service and or Internet site that manages social connections and or shares compiles formats and or broadcasts information based on social connections. Examples of social networking platforms may include FACEBOOK TWITTER LINKEDIN and GOOGLE . In some examples the online service may host data and or process the data via cloud based applications e.g. web based email clients online calendar applications online picture albums etc. for personal and or private use.

As used herein the phrase shared secret may refer to any data that may include an authentication token and or that may be used to generate and or verify an authentication token. As used herein the phrase authentication token may refer to any data that may authenticate the identity of a user and or the validity of a request issued by a user.

As used herein the term permission may refer to any rule and or criterion for determining access to a device and or service provided by a device. For example a permission may specify what user is allowed access to a device under what circumstances the user is allowed access to the device and or what level of access to the device the user is allowed. In some examples the permission may specify that a user is allowed access to the device based on a characteristic of the user e.g. that the user belongs to a specified group has a specified role etc. and or based on a characteristic of the device e.g. the device is a lighting device . In some examples the permission may apply to a group of users and or a group of devices.

Obtaining module may obtain the shared secret and the permission in any suitable context. For example obtaining module may obtain the shared secret and the permission from the identity assertion provider in response to authorizing the identity assertion provider to grant permissions on the local area network. For example obtaining module may operate as a part of a networked device on the local area network e.g. a gateway and or a device to be accessed by a guest . In this example an administrator of the local area network e.g. a home owner may instruct obtaining module to trust the identity assertion provider e.g. and accept permissions and authentication information from the identity assertion provider . Additionally or alternatively obtaining module may be pre configured to interoperate with the identity assertion provider.

The social networking platform may receive the request to provide the second user access to the device in any of a variety of ways. For example interface module within the social networking platform may provide an interface e.g. via an application hosted by the social networking platform that allows for the first user to select from a list of users e.g. friends and or contacts on the social network and to select the device in the local area network e.g. that has been registered with the social networking platform . Additionally or alternatively interface module may allow the first user to request access for the second user through another feature of the social networking platform. For example interface module may allow the first user to request access to the device for the second user by inviting the second user to an event e.g. at the site of the local area network such as the first user s home . For example interface module may identify an event on the social networking platform that is hosted by the first user and to which the second user is invited. Interface module may then determine based at least in part on the second user being invited to the event that the second user is entitled to access the device.

In some examples interface module may determine that the second user is entitled to access the device only after fulfilling one or more additional conditions. For example interface module may determine that the second user is entitled to access the device if the second user accepts the invitation via the social networking platform. In one example interface module may determine that the second user is entitled to access the device for a duration of the event as defined on the social networking platform. For example if the event as defined on the social networking platform is for 6 00 pm to 10 00 pm interface module may determine that the second user is entitled to access the device from 6 00 pm to 10 00 pm or e.g. from 5 45 pm to 10 15 pm to allow for a grace period .

In some examples interface module may determine that the second user is entitled to access to the device e.g. during the event based on 1 identifying a device type of the device 2 identifying a role of the second user at the event 3 identifying a mapping between device types and guest roles and 4 determining based on the device type the role and the mapping between device types and guest roles that the role of the second user at the event entitles the second user to access to the device. For example interface module may determine that any invited guest may access lighting devices at the event but that a guest with a disc jockey role is also entitled access to multimedia devices at the event. In some examples interface module may use defined relationships within the social networking platform to determine default access permissions for guests to devices within the local area network. For example a guest with an immediate family relationship to the first user defined in the social network may be granted access privileges to more devices and or to more device features than a guest with a friend of a friend relationship to the first user. Accordingly interface module may identify a relationship between the first user and the second user on the social networking platform and determine based on the relationship between the first user and the second user on the social networking platform that the second user is entitled to access to the device.

Although interface module may operate as a part of a social networking platform in some examples interface module may operate as a part of a portal e.g. with one or more associated web services that may provide an administrator of a local area network with an interface in which to define user accounts user groups and or access policies e.g. types of access conditions for access and or devices which may be accessed by the defined user accounts and or user groups . In some examples the portal may enable a first user to provide access to a device on a local area network to a second user without involving a social networking platform.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify an authentication system used for accessing the social networking platform. For example interface module may as a part of social networking platform in identify an authentication system used for accessing social networking platform .

In some examples the authentication system may provide federated identity management. For example the identity assertion provider may provide a single sign on SSO service for authenticating users across multiple services. The authentication system may use any of a variety of standards and or protocols to provide authentication services. For example the identity assertion provider may use OAUTH Security Assertion Markup Language SAML and or OPENID.

Interface module may identify the authentication system in any suitable manner. For example interface module may identify the authentication system by operating as a part of the social networking platform that uses and or provides the authentication system. Additionally or alternatively interface module may identify the authentication system by identifying and or using an application programming interface API for interfacing with the authentication system.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may provision the local area network with authentication information for authenticating the second user of the social networking platform via the authentication system. For example interface module may as a part of social networking platform in provision local area network with authentication information e.g. retrieved from authentication system for authenticating guest user e.g. associated with user account via authentication system . For example interface module may provide router of local area network with shared secret . In some examples interface module may provision local area network with the authentication information by instructing authentication system to provide the authentication information to router .

Interface module may provision the local area network with the authentication information in any suitable context. In some examples interface module may provision the local area network with the authentication information when the second user is first identified as a candidate for receiving permissions to access devices on the local area network e.g. before receiving the current request to access the device . Additionally or alternatively interface module may provision the local area network with the authentication information following the request to provide the second user with access to the device.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein transmit in response to receiving the request by the first user permission information from the social networking platform to the local area network that provides the second user with access to the device within the local area network controlled by the first user. For example interface module may as a part of social networking platform in transmit in response to receiving the request by user a permission from social networking platform to local area network e.g. to router within local area network that provides guest user with access to device within local area network .

Although shared secret and permission are shown as being stored at router in in some examples shared secret and or permission may be stored at another location for access by local area network . For example shared secret and or permission may be stored at device such that an attempt to access device by guest user is validated at device instead of and or in addition to being validated at router .

Returning to the discussion of step in obtaining module may obtain the shared secret and the permission when the identity assertion provider e.g. the social networking platform transmits the shared secret and the permission to the local area network. For example the identity assertion provider may push the shared secret and or the permission to a gateway of the local area network via a representational state transfer REST API. Additionally or alternatively obtaining module may fetch the shared secret and or permission from a predefined source e.g. via a REST API such as the identity assertion provider and or an associated social networking platform.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may store the shared secret and the permission within the local area network. For example storing module may as part of computing device in store shared secret and permission within local area network .

Storing module may store the shared secret and the permission within the local area network in any suitable manner. For example storing module may store the shared secret and or the permission on a gateway of the local area network. Additionally or alternatively storing module may store the shared secret and or the permission of the gateway on the device to which the guest user is to be granted access.

At step one or more of the systems described herein may receive via the Internet connectivity a request by the guest user from outside the local area network to access the device. For example receiving module may as part of computing device in receive via the Internet connectivity request by guest user from outside local area network e.g. via device and network to access device .

The request may include any of a variety of information. For example the request may include authentication information e.g. an authentication token for authenticating the request e.g. as originating from the guest user . The authentication information may come in any of a variety of formats. For example the authentication information may be presented as a port knocking sequence e.g. a series of requests at a specified sequence of ports at the IP address of the local area network . Additionally or alternatively the authentication information may come via the Transmission Control Protocol Authentication Option TCP AO . In some examples the request may include a hash based message authentication code HMAC for authenticating the guest user.

In some examples the request may include an identification of the guest user. Additionally or alternatively the request may include geolocation information specifying a current location of the guest user e.g. by specifying a current location of a device that is carried by the guest user and or that was used by the guest user to send the request . In some examples receiving module may identify the IP address from which the request originated e.g. to compare the IP address with information from the identity assertion provider and or an associated social networking platform about a current IP address from which the guest user is in communication with the identity assertion provider . In some examples receiving module may receive the request by receiving a message addressed to a port number assigned to the device on the local area network.

Receiving module may receive the request in any suitable context. For example the guest user may have authenticated with the identity assertion provider which may in turn have submitted the request on behalf of the guest user. Additionally or alternatively the guest user may have authenticated with the identity assertion provider which may have in turn provided a token e.g. as an assertion of the identity of the guest user to the guest user and or to receiving module . In some examples the guest user may have been redirected to the identity assertion provider upon attempting to access the device in order to first authenticate with the identity assertion provider. In one example the guest user may have initiated the request via a social networking platform application. In this example the social networking application may have also provided to the guest user the IP address dynamic domain name and or port needed to access the device within the local area network.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may provide access to the device in response to validating the request based on the shared secret and the permission. For example providing module may as part of computing device in provide access to device in response to validating request based on shared secret and permission .

Providing module may validate the request in any of a variety of ways. For example providing module may determine that authentication information provided in the request is valid based on the shared secret. In some examples providing module may also inspect the permission to determine that the guest user is entitled access to the device. Additionally or alternatively providing module may inspect the permission and the request to determine that the guest user is entitled to access a requested feature of the device and or to interact with the device in a way that is specified by the request. In some examples providing module may also validate the request based on additional information e.g. received with the request . For example providing module may validate the request based on geolocation data identifying a current location of a guest device from which the request was sent. For example providing module may validate the request based on the geolocation data indicating that the request was sent from the physical site of the local area network and or a physical site associated with the local area network e.g. property boundaries within which the local area network falls .

Providing module may provide access to the device in any suitable manner. For example providing module may forward the request to the device e.g. instead of blocking filtering and or redirecting the request in response to validating the request.

In one example a social networking application e.g. a FACEBOOK application may enable a user to configure guest access to resources in a protected local network. The social networking application may also provide to configured guests the IP address dynamic domain name and or port needed to access each protected resource within the protected local network. The router of the protected network may interface with the social networking application to know what guests should be allowed which types of access to which devices and under what circumstances. When the router receives a request on one of the provided ports it can use the social networking application to discover if the incoming request matches the IP address for a configured guest user e.g. who may be logged in to the social network and may allow or deny the requested access.

In some examples the systems described herein may consider the physical location of the guest only granting access to some resources when the guest is physically on the site of the local area network or conversely only when the guest is physically off the site of the local area network . These systems may use an authentication scheme such as TCP AO to communicate the level of access that has been granted. Alternatively the level of access to the resource may depend on what the resource exposes e.g. a streaming camera may by default show streaming content beyond streaming these systems may also grant access to change the orientation and or zoom level of the camera .

The interfaces available to a social networking application or another identity provider may provide the IP addresses and in some examples geolocation information for known logged in users. In addition to allowing different levels of access to devices the systems described herein may specify the conditions under which access is granted. In some examples these conditions may be tied to events on the calendar of a social networking platform. For example these systems may make a default level of access for a scheduled birthday event available to all invited users on the social networking platform who accepted the invitation and e.g. are physically present according to the geo location status of the users . In some examples the access may be granted for the duration of the event e.g. as specified on the calendar of the social networking platform . In some cases these systems may also consider specific roles designated for the invited guests e.g. as specified on the social networking platform when assigning default levels of access to devices. For example these systems may grant a user designated as a DJ with access to resources to control music and or video around the house.

In some examples these systems may tie certain types of events to specific levels of access for guests of the events. For example these systems may automatically grant house guests at a vacation home with access to control lights thermostats audio visual equipment and swimming pool heat by booking a guest stay at the vacation home via the social networking platform. In some examples these systems may also send preset commands to devices in anticipation of a guest s arrival e.g. because the guest is scheduled to arrive and or because geolocation data indicates that the guest is in close proximity such as warming up the house or disarming a security system.

The systems described herein may make the list of allowed users along with permissions and duration of access to the protected network s gateway in any of a variety of ways. For example these systems may push the guest list and configuration to the router e.g. via a REST API or the router may fetch it from a configured source e.g. via a REST API or through a linked identity provider and or social networking platform . In some examples these systems may use port knocking at the designated IP address to allow access. Additionally or alternatively these systems may use TCP AO to indicate authentication status and e.g. to specify granular permissions through to the networked device.

The systems described herein may specify types and conditions of access by user and or by groupings and or categories of users. These systems may provide default access types and conditions for all granted users for particular categories of users e.g. close friends relatives immediate family etc. and or for specified individual users. In some examples these systems may apply default access types and conditions to guests of a specified event. These systems may also individuate types and conditions of access by the type of device e.g. access to a web cam may be streaming only when remote but may allow panning zooming and snapshots when on site .

The systems described herein may identify policies that specify default access types and conditions and the devices to which they apply in connection with an established authentication link between the router of the protected network and the social networking application.

In some examples a portal with associated web services may provide an administrator of a protected network with an interface in which to define user accounts user groups and policies e.g. types of and conditions for access . The associated web services may provide the router with interfaces to query for IP addresses of logged in guests and or fetch policies associated with guests. The router may then grant or deny access to devices accordingly.

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of physical processing unit e.g. a hardware implemented central processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an Industry Standard Architecture ISA Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Express PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation Small Computer System Interface SCSI host adapters Universal Serial Bus USB host adapters Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 host adapters Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Parallel ATA PATA Serial ATA SATA and External SATA eSATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and or other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system . In one example database from may be stored in primary storage device .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data and or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data and or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable medium. The phrase computer readable medium as used herein generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and non transitory type media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives tape drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. Compact Disks CDs Digital Video Disks DVDs and BLU RAY disks electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a WAN a LAN a PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent Network Attached Storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as Network File System NFS Server Message Block SMB or Common Internet File System CIFS .

Servers and may also be connected to a Storage Area Network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and intelligent storage array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N and or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for providing secure access to local network devices.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

In various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may facilitate multi tenancy within a cloud based computing environment. In other words the software modules described herein may configure a computing system e.g. a server to facilitate multi tenancy for one or more of the functions described herein. For example one or more of the software modules described herein may program a server to enable two or more clients e.g. customers to share an application that is running on the server. A server programmed in this manner may share an application operating system processing system and or storage system among multiple customers i.e. tenants . One or more of the modules described herein may also partition data and or configuration information of a multi tenant application for each customer such that one customer cannot access data and or configuration information of another customer.

According to various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may be implemented within a virtual environment. For example the modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtual machine. As used herein the phrase virtual machine generally refers to any operating system environment that is abstracted from computing hardware by a virtual machine manager e.g. a hypervisor . Additionally or alternatively the modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtualization layer. As used herein the phrase virtualization layer generally refers to any data layer and or application layer that overlays and or is abstracted from an operating system environment. A virtualization layer may be managed by a software virtualization solution e.g. a file system filter that presents the virtualization layer as though it were part of an underlying base operating system. For example a software virtualization solution may redirect calls that are initially directed to locations within a base file system and or registry to locations within a virtualization layer.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a mobile computing environment. Mobile computing environments may be implemented by a wide range of mobile computing devices including mobile phones tablet computers e book readers personal digital assistants wearable computing devices e.g. computing devices with a head mounted display smartwatches etc. and the like. In some examples mobile computing environments may have one or more distinct features including for example reliance on battery power presenting only one foreground application at any given time remote management features touchscreen features location and movement data e.g. provided by Global Positioning Systems gyroscopes accelerometers etc. restricted platforms that restrict modifications to system level configurations and or that limit the ability of third party software to inspect the behavior of other applications controls to restrict the installation of applications e.g. to only originate from approved application stores etc. Various functions described herein may be provided for a mobile computing environment and or may interact with a mobile computing environment.

In addition all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of interact with consume data produced by and or produce data consumed by one or more systems for information management. As used herein the phrase information management may refer to the protection organization and or storage of data. Examples of systems for information management may include without limitation storage systems backup systems archival systems replication systems high availability systems data search systems virtualization systems and the like.

In some embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of produce data protected by and or communicate with one or more systems for information security. As used herein the phrase information security may refer to the control of access to protected data. Examples of systems for information security may include without limitation systems providing managed security services data loss prevention systems identity authentication systems access control systems encryption systems policy compliance systems intrusion detection and prevention systems electronic discovery systems and the like.

According to some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of communicate with and or receive protection from one or more systems for endpoint security. As used herein the phrase endpoint security may refer to the protection of endpoint systems from unauthorized and or illegitimate use access and or control. Examples of systems for endpoint protection may include without limitation anti malware systems user authentication systems encryption systems privacy systems spam filtering services and the like.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may receive a permission to be transformed transform the permission into an access configuration for a local area network output a result of the transformation to a device within the local area network use the result of the transformation to provide a guest user access to the device within the local area network and store the result of the transformation within the local area network. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a processor volatile memory non volatile memory and or any other portion of a physical computing device from one form to another by executing on the computing device storing data on the computing device and or otherwise interacting with the computing device.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms connected to and coupled to and their derivatives as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as permitting both direct and indirect i.e. via other elements or components connection. In addition the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. Finally for ease of use the terms including and having and their derivatives as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

