---

title: Systems and methods for selection of a portable telemetry device
abstract: A system comprising for selecting a portable telemetry device includes a status component, a request component, a selection component and an indication component. The status component is configured to determine a device status for a plurality of portable telemetry devices docked in a charging station. The request component is configured to receive a request to use at least one of the plurality of portable telemetry devices. The selection component is configured to select, in response to the request, a portable telemetry device based on device statuses for the plurality of portable telemetry devices. The indication component is configured to indicate selection of the portable telemetry device to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603525&OS=09603525&RS=09603525
owner: SHENZHEN MINDRAY BIO-MEDICAL ELECTRONICS CO. LTD.
number: 09603525
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20140815
---
The present disclosure relates to medical monitoring and more particularly relates to systems methods and devices for selecting a portable telemetry device.

Modern technology practice makes extensive use of electronic monitoring of vital signs and other physiological parameters of patients. In some cases remote monitoring of physiological parameters or telemetry is used to allow nurses doctors and or computing devices to determine the health of a patient or detect problems with the patient when the nurse or doctor is not with the patient. In some cases wireless telemetry devices worn by a patient may allow the patient to move around and or be easily moved between locations while maintaining monitoring of the patient s vital signs. One example of a portable telemetry device is the Mindray Telepack .

In a hospital or medical facility multiple portable telemetry devices may be used to monitor multiple patients. For example a portable telemetry device may be available for each room or each bed of a hospital or unit of a hospital. When portable telemetry devices are not in use they may be docked to recharge or otherwise maintain them. For example the portable telemetry device software may be updated a storage area may be re imaged stored data may be deleted or modified a status of the device may be determined or the like.

When a patient needs to be set up with a portable telemetry device it may be desirable for a nurse or medical staff to pick a portable telemetry device based on a relative status compared to other available portable telemetry devices. For example it may be desirable to select a portable telemetry device that is completely recharged or has the greatest amount of charged stored in its battery. Similarly it may be desirable to select a portable telemetry device that has updated software has finished a management procedure has a lowest number of usage hours has a lowest number of battery recharge cycles or the like. By selecting based on a device status it may increase the likelihood that a selected device will work properly and have sufficient charge to run for a desired length of time thus increasing usage life of the devices. However Applicants have recognized that it can be difficult or time consuming for a nurse or staff member to determine this information and select a device.

Based on the foregoing Applicants have developed systems methods and devices for automating selection of a portable telemetry device. In one embodiment a system for selecting a portable telemetry device includes a status component a request component a selection component and an indication component. The status component determines a device status for a plurality of portable telemetry devices docked in a charging station. The request component receives a request to use at least one of the plurality of portable telemetry devices. The selection component selects in response to the request a portable telemetry device from the plurality of portable telemetry devices docked at a charging station. The selection component also selects the portable telemetry device based on device statuses for the plurality of portable telemetry devices. The indication component indicates selection of the portable telemetry device by a user.

When not in use one or more portable telemetry devices may be connected to a docking station such as a charging station located at a central nurses station or monitoring area. In one embodiment the docking station is a smart device which may be connected to a central monitoring system either directly or via a network. The docking station or central monitoring system can program the portable telemetry devices and read their device statuses. When a clinician wishes to use a portable telemetry device the clinician may select a location displayed on the central monitor for which a portable telemetry device is needed. The smart docking station or central monitoring system may then pick a portable telemetry device based on one or more of battery charge level battery lifecycle software version hours of usage or the like. After selection the docking station or central monitoring system programs the selected portable telemetry device to communicate operate in the selected location. In one embodiment the selected portable telemetry device may also be associated with or programmed to correspond to a specific patient room or bed. When the selected portable telemetry device is ready to go a visual indication such as an LED or display of the selected portable telemetry device may be lit or have an altered state to indicate to the clinician which portable telemetry device can be used and that it is ready. Alternatively or in addition audio indications may be used. The clinician can take the corresponding selected portable telemetry device and use it for patient monitoring. Thus a clinician can easily obtain a portable telemetry device that is ready for usage.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that this disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

Turning to the figures is a schematic diagram illustrating one embodiment of a telemetry system . The telemetry system includes a plurality of portable telemetry devices a monitoring system a docking station and a management component . The portable telemetry devices are attached to sensors which may be used to gather patient data from an attached or corresponding patient. Although the management component is illustrated as logically separate from the monitoring system and the docking station in some embodiments the management component may be incorporated into one or both of the monitoring system and the docking station . The monitoring system docking station management component and portable telemetry devices may be in communication via direct or network wireless or wired connections.

In one embodiment the portable telemetry device includes a telemetry device worn by a patient. For example the patient may be free to walk or move while wearing the portable telemetry device due to size and or a capability for wireless communication. The portable telemetry device may include a portable device comprising a housing containing a processor circuitry computer readable memory antenna radios a battery and or the like. The portable telemetry device may be small enough to be worn by a patient and allow the patient to move freely. The telemetry device may include one or more ports for coupling to sensors and receiving signals from the sensors. The portable telemetry device may include a human machine interface which may include a display one or more buttons and or indicator lights to allow a human to determine a status of the portable telemetry device enter information or otherwise interact with the portable telemetry device .

In one embodiment the portable telemetry device is in wireless communication with the monitoring system . Connected to the telemetry device are a plurality of sensors which may be used to measure patient parameters and or obtain patient waveforms. For example the sensors may include one or more electrocardiography ECG sensors a pulse oximetry sensor e.g. SpO2 and or other sensors. The portable telemetry device may receive signals from the sensors as analog or digital data signals indicating a physiological condition of a patient. The portable telemetry device may transmit physiological data to the monitoring system for monitoring storage or the like. For example the telemetry device may forward processed or unprocessed sensor data to the monitoring system so that a doctor nurse or other medical personnel can monitor a condition of the patient.

The monitoring system may include a computing device such as a computer server or the like. The monitoring system may include a processor circuitry computer readable memory antenna radios communication ports and or the like. In one embodiment the monitoring system includes a computing system for a central nursing station. The monitoring system may include a computing system for an intensive care ward step down ward or in patient ward.

The monitoring system receives the physiological data from the portable telemetry device and stores and or processes the physiological data. In one embodiment the monitoring system stores the physiological data in memory for later access and or analysis. In one embodiment the monitoring system processes the physiological data to detect problems for the patient detect whether there is an alarm condition or perform other analysis. For example the monitoring system may report an alarm condition to a nurse doctor or other medical personnel. The monitoring system may also provide control data to the portable telemetry device to configure alarm settings reset alarms determine a state or location of the portable telemetry device transfer stored data or otherwise configure operation of the portable telemetry device . In one embodiment the telemetry system may send and receive control data between the portable telemetry device and the monitoring system to determine that messages were received or that instructions corresponding to control data were performed.

In one embodiment the docking station includes a physical port or a device where portable telemetry device can be connected or placed when not in use. For example the docking station may include a plurality of slots ports or connections where the portable telemetry device can be docked for storage recharging or performance of management tasks. In one embodiment a physical connection may not be needed as wireless charging and communication can be provided to the portable telemetry devices . In one embodiment the docking station includes a physical location where portable telemetry devices may be kept when not in use. In one embodiment the docking station may include processing circuitry or other circuitry to provide smart features to the docking station. For example the management component may be integrated into the docking station or the docking station may be configured to communicate with the management component or monitoring system to implement charging or other management procedures in relation to the portable telemetry devices .

The management component is configured to manage the portable telemetry devices . For example the management component may manage portable telemetry devices which are docked in or at the docking station . In one embodiment the management component manages the portable telemetry devices by determining a device status for each portable telemetry device docked in the docking station . For example the portable telemetry devices may send messages to the management component via the docking station indicating one or more of a battery charge level a software version a total usage time for the device a number of total battery lifecycles performed or remaining or the like. The management component may store the device status information.

In one embodiment the management component receives a request to use a portable telemetry device from a user. For example a user may provide a request to use a portable telemetry device to the monitoring system . The monitoring system may forward information regarding the request to the management component . The management component may automatically select an available portable telemetry device based on corresponding device statuses. The management component may also provide an indication of which portable telemetry device was selected. For example the management component may send a signal to a selected portable telemetry device to light up a display or indicator light so that a user can see which portable telemetry device was selected for usage.

The status component is configured to determine a device status of one or more portable telemetry devices . In one embodiment the status component determines device statuses for each portable telemetry device connected to a docking station . For example the portable telemetry devices attached to the docking station may be connected via a connector that charges each portable telemetry device and also provides communication with the management component or monitoring system . In one embodiment the status component may query each portable telemetry device as to its current device status. In one embodiment the portable telemetry devices may each provide a current status. The status component may store the device statuses for the portable telemetry devices in memory for access when needed. In one embodiment the status component may only determine the device statuses for each of the portable telemetry devices when a request to select a portable telemetry device is received. Example device status information that may be determined include a battery charge level a battery lifecycle a software version hours of usage for the portable telemetry device whether a management task has been completed on the portable telemetry device or the like.

The request component may receive a request to use an available portable telemetry device . For example medical staff may wish to use a portable telemetry device with a patient and may wish to select and assign a portable telemetry device to that patient so that they may monitor medical parameters of the patient. In one embodiment the request component may receive a request from a monitoring system in response to a user indicating a location or patient for desired usage of a portable telemetry device . The request may indicate a location for usage a patient identifier and or an indication that a portable telemetry device will need to be selected and used with the patient in the indicated location. The request component may receive the request and notify a selection component to select a portable telemetry device for the specific patient and or location.

The selection component is configured to select a portable telemetry device . In one embodiment the selection component selects the portable telemetry device in response to the request component receiving a request. In one embodiment the selection component selects a portable telemetry device from a plurality of portable telemetry devices docked at a docking station or which are otherwise not currently in use.

In one embodiment the selection component selects one of the portable telemetry devices based on the device statuses of the available portable telemetry devices . Example device statuses may include a battery charge level a battery lifecycle a software version hours of usage for the portable telemetry device whether a management task has been completed on the portable telemetry device or the like. The battery charge level may indicate a percent charge of the battery an amount of time left on the battery to use the portable telemetry device or an amount of power currently stored within the device. For example the selection component may select a portable telemetry device that is fully charged or has a highest battery charge level. The battery lifecycle information may include how many charge discharge cycles the battery of the portable telemetry device has been through. For example it may be desirable to select a portable telemetry device that has had the fewest charge discharge cycles to allow a collection of portable telemetry devices to wear evenly over time.

The software version may indicate a version of software operating the portable telemetry device . For example a user may want to select a portable telemetry device with the most up to date software. The hours of usage may indicate the total number of usage hours for the portable telemetry device . For example a user may want to select a portable telemetry device that has the fewest total usage hours to allow the portable telemetry devices to wear evenly over time. In a similar manner the selection component may select a portable telemetry device based on a hardware version or other hardware information of a portable telemetry device . The status of a management task may indicate whether device management has been performed on a portable telemetry device since its last usage. Management tasks may include updating software resetting memory removing patient data restarting the device or the like. For example users may want to select only portable telemetry devices that have had all the needed management tasks performed.

In one embodiment the selection component selects a portable telemetry device based on multiple types of device statuses. For example different types of device statuses may be weighted or prioritized differently. In one embodiment the battery charge level will be checked first and then a software version can be checked second on those that have a sufficiently high battery charge level. As another example the selection component may determine whether a minimum level for each device status type is met. For example the battery may need to be at least 80 recharged and the software must be at least a specific version.

The indication component provides an indication to a user of the selected portable telemetry device as selected by the selection component . For example after the selection component selects a specific portable telemetry device the indication component may indicate on a display or interface that the specific portable telemetry device has been selected. In one embodiment the indication component sends a selection message to the selected portable telemetry device to cause the selected portable telemetry device to indicate via a user interface that the device has been selected. For example the portable telemetry device may light an indicator light light a display make a sound vibrate and or provide other feedback to indicate to the user which portable telemetry device has been selected. In one embodiment an indication of the selected portable telemetry device may be displayed on a display such as a display of the monitoring system .

The location component is configured to receive information regarding a usage location or patient for which a portable telemetry device will be used. For example the request received by the request component may include a location and or patient information indicating which room bed patient and or region of a hospital a requested device will be used. In one embodiment the location component may assign a portable telemetry device selected by the selection component to the corresponding location or patient. For example the location component may send patient or location information to the selected portable telemetry device which can store that information to track its assigned location. As another example the location component may assign the selected portable telemetry device by updating a location assignment with the monitoring system or a database tracking assigned locations.

The telemetry component is configured to gather patient data from one or more sensors and provide the patient data or information about the patient data to the monitoring system . In one embodiment the telemetry component includes one or more sensor ports for receiving the patient data. In one embodiment the telemetry component includes an antenna or communication port to communicate the patient data to the monitoring system . For example the telemetry component may wirelessly communicate the patient data to the monitoring system such that the portable telemetry device may provide patient monitoring even when the patient needs to leave a room or bed.

The battery may store electrical energy for usage by the portable telemetry device . For example the battery may act as a power supply to allow the portable telemetry device to gather and or report data even when the portable telemetry device is not plugged into an outlet or external power source.

The docking port may include a charging and or communication port to allow the telemetry device to be recharged and or communicate with a docking station . The docking port may include a physical connection to provide charging and or communication through a wired connection or may include proximity charging or communication such that the portable telemetry device may be charged wirelessly and or communicate wirelessly with the management component . In one embodiment the battery may be recharged by electrical power provided via the docking port . In one embodiment the device status information software updates and or other information may be communicated via the docking port .

The current status component is configured to determine a current status of the portable telemetry device and send the current status to the management component . In one embodiment the current status component may determine and or send a device status comprising any of the device statuses discussed herein. For example the current status component may send a current status comprising a battery charge level software version hardware version or the like via the docking port to the management component . In one embodiment the current status component determines and or sends the current device status information in response to a request from the management component . In one embodiment the current status component may only determine send the device status when the portable telemetry device is connected to the docking station such as via the docking port .

The assignment component is configured to receive a selection indication from the management component . For example when the portable telemetry device is selected the assignment component may receive a selection indication indicating that the portable telemetry device has been selected. In one embodiment the assignment component may store an indication that the portable telemetry device has been selected and or may store an indication of a location or patient to which the portable telemetry device is assigned.

The interface component provides a human machine interface to receive input from a user and or to indicate a status or other information to a user. In one embodiment the interface component includes a display which can be used to provide a graphical user interface to convey visual information such as text images or the like. In one embodiment the interface component includes an indicator light with two or more states to indicate a state of the portable telemetry device to the user. Example states may include an on state an off state a blinking state or different color states. In one embodiment the interface component may include one or more buttons a touch screen or other device for user input.

In one embodiment the interface component is configured to indicate to a user that the portable telemetry device has been selected. For example the interface component may change a state of a display indicator light or the like after the assignment component receives an assignment indication. For example the state of a display indicator light or other portion of the interface component may be different from other portable telemetry devices docked at a docking station . A user may be able to see the new state take the portable telemetry device and begin using the portable telemetry device with very little effort to determine which portable telemetry device to select and or which portable telemetry device has been selected.

The method begins and a status component determines a device status for a plurality of portable telemetry devices docked in a charging station. For example the status component may determine a device status for each portable telemetry device which is not currently assigned to a patient. The status component may determine the device status by requesting and or receiving status information from the portable telemetry devices .

A request component receives a request to use at least one of the plurality of portable telemetry devices . For example a user may provide input to the management component or a monitoring system indicating a request to use a portable telemetry device . A selection component selects in response to the request a portable telemetry device from the plurality of available portable telemetry devices . For example the available portable telemetry devices may include portable telemetry devices docked at a charging station. In one embodiment the selection component selects the portable telemetry device based on device statuses determined by the status component .

An indication component indicates selection of the portable telemetry device to a user. For example the indication component may indicate the selection by changing a state of an indicator light display speaker or any other output or interface component of a portable telemetry device or telemetry system .

The method begins and a telemetry component communicates patient data to a remote patient monitoring system. A current status component communicates device status information for the portable telemetry device when the portable telemetry device is docked. For example a docking port may be in wired or wireless communication with a docking station or recharging station.

An assignment component receives a selection indication that the portable telemetry device has been selected for usage. An interface component indicates to a user that the portable telemetry device has been selected for usage. For example the interface component may indicate that the portable telemetry device has been selected by changing a state of an indicator light or display of the portable telemetry device .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM an EPROM a flash drive an optical drive a magnetic hard drive or another medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or an object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object a procedure or a function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations that when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrase for example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on its presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

It will be obvious to those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

