---

title: Mass notification systems
abstract: A mass notification system is disclosed. The system can include a communication network. The system can also include a number of network devices communicably coupled to the communication network, where at least two of the network devices are configured to generate a communication substantially simultaneously. The system can further include a server communicably coupled to the communication network and configured to control the plurality of network devices, where the server instructs the at least two of the plurality of network devices to generate the communication. The system can also include a first client communicably coupled to the communication network and comprising a user interface, where the first client is configured to communicate, via the user interface, with the server and the plurality of network devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282537&OS=09282537&RS=09282537
owner: Cooper Technologies Company
number: 09282537
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140319
---
Embodiments described herein relate generally to a communication system and more particularly to systems methods and devices for mass notification systems.

Mass notification systems are designed to provide information to people at different locations at substantially the same time. A mass notification system can involve the use of audio and or visual devices in communicating the information. The information can relate to an emergency e.g. fire tornado hazardous spill or a non emergency situation. Some or all of the mass notification system can be located indoors and or outdoors. A mass notification system can cover a particular geographic area e.g. a building floor entire building a campus a town or a number of geographic areas e.g. a number of towns within a county a number of buildings owned by a company throughout the country .

In general in one aspect the disclosure relates to a mass notification system. The mass notification system can include a communication network. The mass notification system can also include a number of network devices communicably coupled to the communication network where at least two of the network devices are configured to generate a notification substantially simultaneously. The mass notification system can further include a server communicably coupled to the communication network and configured to control the network devices where the server instructs the at least two of the network devices to generate a notification. The mass notification system can also include a first client communicably coupled to the communication network and having a user interface where the first client is configured to communicate via the user interface with the server and the network devices.

In another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a mass notification system. The mass notification system can include a communication network. The mass notification system can also include a number of network devices communicably coupled to the communication network where at least two of the network devices are configured to generate a notification substantially simultaneously where the at least two of the network devices includes an audio device. The mass notification system can further include a server communicably coupled to the communication network and configured to control the network devices. The audio device can be a source of audio for a remainder of the at least two of the network devices. The source of audio generated by the audio device and delivered to the remainder of the at least two of the network devices overrides the server.

In another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a method for controlling a mass notification system. The method can include receiving a communication from a client communicably coupled to the mass notification system wherein the mass notification system is controlled by a server. The method can also include transferring in response to the communication control of the notification system to the client. The mass notification system can include a number of network devices configured to generate a notification substantially simultaneously based on a subsequent communication from the client.

These and other aspects objects features and embodiments will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

The example embodiments discussed herein are directed to systems apparatuses and methods of mass notification systems. Mass notification systems as described herein can be used in one or more of a number of applications. Such applications can include but are not limited to mass notification office work stations fire alarm and protection public address general address paging emergency response emergency preparedness tornado warning security and surveillance. Thus the examples of mass notification systems described herein are not limited to a particular application.

Any communications sent and received between one or more components e.g. server network device s client s audio device s within a mass notification system described herein can use one or more of a number of communication protocols. Consequently regardless of the communication protocol used a communication sent by one component of the mass notification system can be addressed to one or more other specific components of the mass notification system. In other words a communication generated and sent by a component of a mass communication system can be received and interpreted by the intended recipient component s of the mass communication system.

A mass notification system as described herein can be called one or more of a number of other names including but not limited to a fire alarm system a paging system a public address general address system and a tornado warning system. Example embodiments can be used in one or more of a variety of environments indoors or outdoors where the light fixture can be mounted and exposed. Example environments can include but are not limited to conditions with moisture humidity dirt exhaust fumes vibrations potential explosions and noise.

Example embodiments of mass notification systems will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments of communicating with network devices are shown. Mass notification systems may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of mass notification systems to those of ordinary skill in the art. Like but not necessarily the same elements also sometimes called components in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency. Terms such as first second top base open and closed are used merely to distinguish one component or part of a component or state of a component from another. Such terms are not meant to denote a preference or a particular orientation.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a number of configurations of a mass notification system can be used and that the configuration of the mass notification system of is only one example. The server is communicably coupled to each of the network devices and the client . The various communication channels and the network can collectively be called a communication network. Each point wireless or hardwired on the communication network where a device e.g. a network device a client a server are communicably coupled can be called a node.

The server can be any type of device capable of generating sending receiving and interpreting communications. The communications generated and sent by the server are sent to one or more of the network devices and or the client . The communications sent by the server can be sent through one or more communication channels e.g. communication channel to the network and then from the network through one or more communication channels e.g. communication channel communication channel to one or more of the network devices and or the client . For example in this case communication channel allows communications to be sent between the network and network device . As another example communication channel allows communications to be sent between the network and network device . As a further example communication channel allows communications to be sent between the network and the client .

In certain example embodiments a communication generated and sent by the server instructs two or more network devices to generate and or output a notification. If a network device is generating a notification the communication can include details of the content of the notification. A communication sent by the server to two or more network devices can instruct those network devices to output a notification at substantially the same time. For example the server can instruct a number of speakers network devices to output a certain alarm noise substantially simultaneously to indicate that a fire has been detected. A communication generated and sent by the server can also instruct two or more network devices to stop generating and or outputting a notification.

In some cases one or more communication channels and or networks can be operably between two or more network devices . For example as shown in communication channel can allow communications to be sent between network device and network device . As another example communication channel can allow communications to be sent between network device and network device . As yet another example communication channel can allow communications to be sent between network device and network device .

Similarly one or more of the network devices can generate and send communications to the server using the same communication channels. The network devices can be any type of device capable of receiving and interpreting communications from the server . In addition a network device can generate a response based on a communication received from the server and send such response another communication through the network and communication channel s to the server . In certain example embodiments one or more of the network devices is an audio device as described below with respect to .

In certain example embodiments a network device can generate and or output a notification. Such a notification can be based on the configuration of the network device . For example a network device that is a speaker can give a notification in the form of sound audio . In such a case the sound can vary depending on the reason for the notification. For example the sound can be a noise indicating a fire. As another example the sound can be a different noise indicating a tornado. As another example the sounds can be yet another noise indicating that there is no longer a threat of danger. Examples of a network device can include but is not limited to a fire alarm a fire alarm control panel FACP a desktop computer an alarm panel a loudspeaker a radio an egress light a speaker a printer a fax machine a copier and a mobile device. A network device can be called by one or more of a number of other names. For example a network device can be called an Internet protocol communicator or an IP communicator.

The communication channels described herein use wired and or wireless technology. The network can include one or more systems and or devices for routing communications between the network devices the client and the server through the appropriate communication channels. The network can use or include the Internet an intranet an Ethernet and or some other system of digital communication. The network can use wired and or wireless technology. The network can be configured so that one or more network devices the client and or the server can be added removed and or otherwise altered to change the mass notification system .

The network can use one or more Internet protocols or other communication protocols for routing the various communications throughout the mass notification system . Examples of a communication protocol used for a communication generated and sent by the server to a particular network device and or the client can include a transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP address or connection and a multi cast network protocol. In some cases the network can be bypassed so that there is a direct connection between the server and a network device and or the client .

In certain example embodiments the client is a device that has read only access to the server one or more network devices and or any other part of the mass notification system . Alternatively the client can control some or all of the mass notification system overriding the server in the control of such portions of the mass notification system . As another alternative the client can control the server as well as one or more of the network devices . The client can have a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface GUI to allow a user defined below to generate commands generate reports monitor a real time status of a network device control a network device and or otherwise interact with some or all of the mass notification system .

A mass notification system can include more than one client . Each client can be permanently or detachably communicably coupled to the communication network of the mass notification system . A client that is detachably coupled to the communication network of the mass notification system can communicably couple to the communication network at one or more nodes. In such a case the client can be portable. The client can also be portable while communicably coupled to a single node of the communication network of the mass notification system as when the coupling node uses wireless technology. If a client can be communicably coupled to multiple nodes of the communication network of the mass notification system the client can be communicably coupled to one node at one point in time and the client can be communicably coupled to another node of the communication network of the mass notification system at another point in time.

If there are multiple clients and if two or more of those clients are attempting to perform a conflicting function e.g. turn on off a network device either with each other or with the server the conflict can be resolved using one or more of a number conflict resolution protocols e.g. logic rules . Such conflict resolution protocols can be based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the time order of events a priority e.g. based on user login established by a certain client and the function of the network device that is the subject of the conflict. More information about the client is discussed below with respect to .

In certain example embodiments a communication generated and sent by the client instructs two or more network devices to generate and or output a notification. If a network device is generating a notification the communication can include details of the content of the notification. A communication sent by the client to two or more network devices can instruct those network devices to output a notification at substantially the same time. For example the client can instruct a number of speakers network devices to output a certain alarm noise substantially simultaneously to indicate that a fire has been detected. A communication generated and sent by the client can also instruct two or more network devices to stop generating and or outputting a notification.

The server can control in the absence of the client when the client is in some form of control all network devices within the mass notification system using the communication network. Typically the server is a computer system a general example of which is described below with respect to that controls the network devices based on one or more of a number factors including but not limited to software instructions or other logic steps a user command default instructions passage of time the occurrence of an event e.g. detection of a fire and or some other factor.

In certain example embodiments the server detects the client when the client is communicably coupled to the communication network of the mass notification system . The server can detect the client automatically based on a communication sent by the client and received by the server based on the occurrence of an event and or based on some other event. When the server detects the client the server can allow the client to have an amount of access and or control over some or all of the network devices in the mass notification system . In such a case the amount of access can include but is not limited to read only access complete control conditional control e.g. control is granted to the client by the server if one or more certain conditions are satisfied fixed duration control e.g. control is granted to the client by the server for a specific period of time and variable duration control e.g. control is granted to the client by the server for a period of time that is based on the satisfaction of one or more conditions .

In certain example embodiments the mass notification system of includes one or more audio devices e.g. audio device . An audio device can be or be part of a network device . An audio device can be a source of audio for at least one network device in the mass notification system . For example for the mass notification system shown in the audio device can be a source of audio for network device and network device . In order for the audio device to provide audio to a network device the audio device can be communicably coupled to the communication network of the mass notification system . Specifically the audio device can be communicably coupled to one or more nodes of the communication network. When the audio device is communicably coupled to the communication network the audio device can override the server .

As with the client described above with respect to an audio device can be fixedly or detachably coupled to the communication network of the mass notification system using one or more nodes. In either case the audio device can be portable. For example the audio device can be communicably coupled to one node at one point in time and the audio device can be communicably coupled to another node of the communication network of the mass notification system at another point in time. The audio device can be communicably coupled to a node using wired and or wireless technology. In the example of the audio device is communicably coupled to the communication network at communication channel .

In certain example embodiments a communication generated and sent by the audio device instructs two or more network devices to generate and or output a notification. If a network device is generating a notification the communication can include details of the content of the notification. A communication sent by the audio device to two or more network devices can instruct those network devices to output a notification at substantially the same time. For example the audio device can instruct a number of speakers network devices to output a certain alarm noise substantially simultaneously to indicate that a fire has been detected. A communication generated and sent by the audio device can also instruct two or more network devices to stop generating and or outputting a notification. More information about the audio device is discussed below with respect to .

The server a client an audio device and or a network device can send communications e.g. commands requests for information broadcast data or information to one or more other components of a mass notification system. Such communications serve one or more of a number of purposes. For example a communication can change the state of one or more network devices receive the status of one or more network devices repeat a command to change the status of one or more network devices or perform some other function. In certain example embodiments the server in a mass notification system e.g. mass notification system mass notification system can be a network device in a larger mass notification system.

Each of these components is described in further detail below. Example embodiments are not limited to the configuration shown in and discussed herein. Additionally although certain components have been enumerated as being part of the mass notification system it is understood that some components are combined with other components and or some components are further divided into additional components in other alternative example embodiments.

In one or more example embodiments the client is implemented according to a client server topology. The client may correspond to enterprise software running on one or more servers and in some embodiments may be implemented as a peer to peer system or resident upon a single computing system. In addition the client may be accessible from other machines using one or more network device interfaces server interfaces and or user interfaces. In one or more example embodiments the client may be accessible over a network e.g. network such as the Internet by the server and or one or more users . Further information and or services provided by the client may also be stored and accessed over the network.

Alternatively or additionally in one or more example embodiments the client is a local computer system of the user . In such embodiments the client is optionally not implemented using a client server topology. For example client can correspond to a laptop computer desktop computer mobile device another type of computing device or a combination of multiple computing devices. Additionally or alternatively the client can be a distributed computer system and or a multi processor computer system in which the computer system includes multiple distinct computing devices.

Continuing with a user as described herein may be any person that is involved with the removal installation operation and or maintenance of a mass notification system and or devices e.g. network device client within a mass notification system. Examples of a user may include but are not limited to a company representative an electrician an engineer a mechanic an operator local or remote a consultant a contractor and a manufacturer s representative. A user can interact with a mass notification system or any portion thereof directly or remotely.

The user uses one or more applications to communicate with the client the server and or one or more network devices in accordance with one or more example embodiments. For example the user can receive a notification from the client as to the operation or lack of operation of a particular network device . According to some example embodiments the user sends information e.g. user preferences settings data to the client the server and or the network devices in a number of manners e.g. modes of communication including but not limited to a direct input over the Internet some other suitable mode for sending information or any combination thereof.

In certain example embodiments the information sent by the user to the client the server and or the network devices is delivered automatically e.g. according to a default setting a consumer preference an occurrence of an event or on demand for example in response to a notice from the client the server and or a network device . The client the server and or the network devices interact with the user in the same manner that the user interacts with the client the server and or the network devices or in a different manner using different modes of communication. The user can use a user system not shown which is discussed below in further detail to interact with the client the server and or the network devices using software not shown in accordance with one or more example embodiments.

In one or more example embodiments each network device using a network device interface sends communications e.g. responses information to and receives communications e.g. a request for information a command from the client . The communications can be delivered automatically e.g. according to a default setting a marketing entity preference an occurrence of an event or on demand as from a request made by the client . The communications provided by the network devices can include but are not limited to the status of the network device an acknowledgment of receipt of a communication from the client and a change in the status of the network device .

Each network device using a network device interface can interact with the client in the same mode of communication that the client interacts with the network device or using different modes of communication in alternative example embodiments. In one or more example embodiments each network device uses a system not shown to interact with the client using the network device interface and network device software which is discussed in further detail below. The client also can be implemented as a browser extension according to some example embodiments. In such a scenario user software and or network device software interacts directly with the client as a browser extension.

In addition to sending and receiving communications the network device interface of each network device can interpret a communication sent by the client . The network device interface of each network device can also generate a response and or other form of communication that is sent to the client . Such a response and or other form of communication can include content e.g. addresses to identify the network device and the client .

The network device interface of a network device mass notification system can also determine which communication channel s and or which protocol to use in sending a communication to the client . In some cases the network device interface of a network device can choose one or more communication channel s and or a protocol based on the corresponding communication received from the client .

Continuing with the client can interact with the user the server and or each network device using an application interface in accordance with one or more example embodiments. Specifically the application interface of the client receives input communications from and sends output communications to the user the server and or each network device . The user the server and or each network device can include an interface to receive communications from and send communications to the client in certain example embodiments. Examples of this interface include but are not limited to a graphical user interface an application programming interface a keyboard a monitor a mouse a web service a data protocol adapter some other hardware and or software or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the communications received by the application interface can include but is not limited to state of operation user preferences commands settings and feedback. The communications sent by the application interface can include but is not limited to a request for status of a network device device communication from the server a command to change the status of a network device and a request for additional information. The communication sent by the application interface can specify but is not limited to a user the server one or more network devices a Uniform Resource Identifier URI e.g. a Uniform Resource Locator URL a web address etc. information generated by and or requested by the communication engine some other software or source of information or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more example embodiments the communications transferred among the application interface the user server and or each network device corresponds to metadata associated with such information. In this case the metadata describes the data specified i.e. the metadata provides context for the specified data . In one or more example embodiments the client the server and or one or more network devices supports various data formats provided by the user and or one or more other network devices .

Continuing with the client retrieves and stores addresses history and logic rules . More specifically the client uses the communication engine to retrieve and store addresses history and logic rules in the storage repository in accordance with one or more example embodiments.

In one or more example embodiments an address is a unique identifier sometimes called a target address for a network device another client and or the server . The addresses of the storage repository can include the address of some or all of the network devices in the mass notification system . An address can also be the unique identifier of the client . Each address is fixed in certain example embodiments or is adjusted based on a logic rule user input and or any other information that can affect or alter an address.

In one or more example embodiments the history of the storage repository is based on previous communications sent and or received by the client . Some or all history can be stored in the storage repository . For example only the previous 24 hours of communications may be stored in the history of the storage repository . The history can be associated with a time. Time in this case can be a clock time an interval of time or some other measure of time. Thus when history is stored in the storage repository the history can be associated with a network device based for example on the addresses and or with a particular time. In this way the client can measure the current state of one or more network devices and or the server and or whether the one or more network devices and or the server has changed state compared to a communication with a network device and or the server at some prior point in time.

In one or more example embodiments the logic rules of the storage repository are a set of deterministic steps that the client the server and or one or more network devices must follow under certain circumstances. Specifically the logic rules represent how the client server user and network devices interact with each other based on certain conditions and or circumstances. The logic rules can include allowances prohibitions and or priorities. The logic rules can allow certain network devices to be controlled by the client instead of the server . Some or all of the logic rules can be fixed according to some example embodiments while in other example embodiments one or more logic rules can vary based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to user input operational history passage of time connectivity of the client to the communication network and function of the network device .

Continuing with the storage repository can be a persistent storage device or set of devices that stores software and data used to assist the communication engine in communicating with the network devices within the mass notification system . In one or more example embodiments the storage repository stores the addresses history and logic rules . Examples of a storage repository include but are not limited to a database or a number of databases a file system a hard drive some other form of data storage or any suitable combination thereof. The storage repository is located on multiple physical machines each storing all or a portion of the addresses history and logic rules according to some example embodiments. Each storage unit or device can be physically located in the same or different geographic location.

The storage repository can be operatively connected to the communication application . In one or more example embodiments the communication application includes functionality to communicate with the network devices in the mass notification system . More specifically the communication application sends information to and or receives information from the storage repository in order to communicate with the network devices the server and or the user .

The functions of the communication application can be performed on a single computing device or on multiple computing devices for example on different network devices . When the functions of the communication application are performed on multiple computing devices a number of configurations and or frameworks are used in certain example embodiments. The configurations and or software frameworks are designed to work with multiple data nodes and large quantities of data. One or more calculations performed by one or more components of the communication application are performed on multiple machines operating in parallel where the results from each machine is combined to generate a result to the one or more calculations.

Each component of the communication application described herein specifically the communication engine uses addresses history and or logic rules to generate and send a communication to the network devices the server and or the user . In one or more example embodiments the communication engine of the communication application coordinates the storage repository and optionally the security module . Specifically the communication engine coordinates the transfer of information between the application interface and the storage repository according to certain example embodiments.

Further the communication engine also retrieves the addresses history and the logic rules from and sends the addresses history and the logic rules to the storage repository for use by the communication engine . The communication engine can also retrieve the addresses history and or the logic rules from the storage repository to be sent to the server and or the user .

In certain example embodiments the communication engine generates one or more communications for and send one or more communications to the server and or one or more network devices . The communication engine can generate and send communications continuously at regular intervals upon the occurrence of some event e.g. a change in status of a network device a communication received from a user and or randomly. The communication engine can generate any type of communication for one or more network devices the server and or a user . Examples of such types of communication can include but are not limited to an instruction e.g. to change state to perform an operation to allow the client to control certain network devices a request for information e.g. current status of a network device and report of status of the network devices .

The type of communication generated by the communication engine can be based on logic rules an instruction from the user an instruction from the server and or some other factor. Similarly the particular network devices that are the intended recipients of a communication generated by the communication engine can be determined by the communication engine logic rules the user and or some other factor. In any case the addresses of the intended recipients are provided to the communication engine by the storage repository . Once received the communication engine incorporates the addresses into the communication generated by the communication engine .

When the communication generated by the communication engine is complete the communication engine sends the communication through the various communication channels and the network of the communication network. In certain example embodiments the communication is broadcast by the communication engine throughout the mass notification system so that the server and all network devices receive the communication. Alternatively a request can also be sent to the server and or one or more specific network devices e.g. the intended recipients according to some example embodiments. Any communication sent and or received by the communication engine can be executed using the application interface . Each communication uses the proper communication protocol as determined by the communication engine .

In addition when the communication engine receives one or more communications from the server a user and or one or more of the network devices the communication engine can determine the content of such communications. In some cases the communication engine generates a communication based on a communication received from the server a user and or a network device . In certain example embodiments once the communication engine allows the client to have control over one or more network devices the communication engine can generate and send subsequent signals. Such signals can be based on input from a user logic rules a response from the server and or some other factor. The communication engine can also include a counter and or a timer to track for example a number of communications or an amount of time between events e.g. communications .

The control exercised over particular network devices by a client can be complete i.e. the server or any other component of the mass notification system cannot simultaneously control those network devices or partial e.g. the server can instruct a network device to perform a task while the network device is under control of the client .

Continuing with the hardware processor within the client executes software in accordance with one or more example embodiments. Specifically the hardware processor can execute software on the client or any of the engines and repositories described above and shown in as well as software used by the user the server and or one or more network devices . The hardware processor can be an integrated circuit a central processing unit a multi core processing chip a multi chip module including multiple multi core processing chips or other hardware processor in one or more example embodiments. The hardware processor is known by other names including but not limited to a computer processor a microprocessor and a multi core processor. In one or more example embodiments the hardware processor executes software instructions stored in memory . The memory includes one or more cache memories main memory and or any other suitable type of memory. The memory is discretely located on the client relative to the hardware processor according to some example embodiments. In certain configurations the memory also is integrated with the hardware processor .

Optionally in one or more example embodiments the security module secures interactions between the client the user the server and or the network devices . More specifically the security module authenticates communication from software based on security keys verifying the identity of the source of the communication. For example user software may be associated with a security key enabling the user software of the user to interact with the client the server and or the network devices . Further the security module restricts receipt of information requests for information and or access to information in some example embodiments.

The user software can interact with the client the server and or the network devices using a browser extension. In this case the browser extension maintains an active session with the client the server and or the network devices after the security module has authenticated the user software. For example the browser extension can continue to interact with the client as the user views various web content in the user software. In this example the browser extension receives notifications from the client for presenting to the user .

As discussed above the user the client the server and network devices can use their own system or share a system in certain example embodiments. Such a system can be or contain a form of an Internet based or an intranet based computer system that is capable of communicating with various software. A computer system includes any type of computing device and or communication device including but not limited to the client . Examples of such a system can include but are not limited to a desktop computer with Internet or intranet access a laptop computer with Internet or intranet access a smart phone a server a server farm and a personal digital assistant PDA . Such a system can correspond to a computer system as described below with regard to .

Further as discussed above such a system can have corresponding software e.g. user software client software server software network device software . The software can execute on the same or a separate device e.g. a server mainframe desktop personal computer PC laptop personal desktop assistant PDA television cable box satellite box kiosk telephone mobile phone or other computing devices and can be coupled by the communication network e.g. network Internet Intranet Extranet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or other network communication methods and or communication channels with wire and or wireless segments according to some example embodiments. The software of one system can be a part of or operate separately but in conjunction with the software of another system within the mass notification system .

In certain example embodiments the client does not include a hardware processor . In such a case the client can include as an example one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA . Using FPGAs and or other similar devices known in the art allows the client to be programmable and function according to certain logic rules and thresholds without the use of a hardware processor.

In certain example embodiments the server has many of the components e.g. hardware processor application interface security module memory communication application storage repository as listed above for the client . In the case of the server certain communications received from the client and or certain logic rules allow the client to override the server to control one or more of the network devices . Similarly certain other communications received from the client and or certain other logic rules allow the server to resume control over one or more of the network devices .

Similarly in certain example embodiments the audio device of includes components that are substantially similar to the components of the client described above with respect to except as described below. Specifically the description for any component e.g. hardware processor communication application storage repository of not provided below can be considered substantially the same as the corresponding component e.g. hardware processor communication application storage repository described above with respect to . The numbering scheme for the components of parallels the numbering scheme for the components of in that each component is a three digit number where similar components between the mass notification system of and the mass notification system of have the identical last two digits.

The audio device can select the one or more network devices that are to be controlled by receive the audio output of the audio device . In such a case the selection of the network devices to be controlled by the audio device can be done in one or more of a number of ways. For example the selection of the network devices to be controlled by the audio device can be done by a user using the application interface of the audio device . Alternatively the selection of the network devices to be controlled by the audio device can be done by logic rules e.g. based on the node of the communication network to which the audio device is communicably coupled based on the address of the audio device .

As yet another alternative the selection of the network devices to be controlled by the audio device can be done by the server . In such a case the server can send an instruction to the particular network devices to be controlled by the audio device so that those network devices follow the communications received from the audio device . In some cases when the server sends an instruction to particular network devices to be controlled by the audio device the server can also send the instruction to one or more other network devices to perform a task. For example the server can send a communication to a number of speaker stations forms of network devices to transfer control of those speaker stations to the audio device . In addition the communication can also be sent by the server to a control panel another network device to display that the audio device is communicably coupled to the mass notification system .

The audio device can also generate audio e.g. live audio feed recorded audio or some other form of communication. In addition the audio device can send the audio or other form of communication to the network devices controlled by the audio device . In such a case the audio device can be used to selectively broadcast notification information to network devices within the mass notification system .

In certain example embodiments the audio device can be communicably coupled to a client . In such a case the client can be used to override the control of one or more network devices by the server in favor of the audio device . As described above the client can override the server in favor of the audio device in one or more of a number ways including but not limited to by a user interacting with the application interface and by logic rules .

The control exercised over particular network devices by the audio device can be complete i.e. the server a client or any other component of the mass notification system cannot simultaneously control those network devices or partial e.g. the server can instruct a network device to perform a task while the network device is under control of the audio device .

In certain example embodiments the audio device does not include a hardware processor . In such a case the audio device can include as an example one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA . Using FPGAs and or other similar devices known in the art allows the audio device to be programmable and function according to certain logic rules and thresholds without the use of a hardware processor.

In addition a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that additional steps not shown in may be included in performing this method. Accordingly the specific arrangement of steps should not be construed as limiting the scope. Further a particular computing device as described for example in below can be used to perform one or more of the steps for the method described below in certain exemplary embodiments.

Referring now to the example method begins at the START step and proceeds to step where a communication is received from a client . The communication can be sent to the server and or one or more network devices . The communication can be generated and sent by the control device or more specifically the communication engine of the control device . The communication can be sent using the communication network of the mass notification system . The communication can include a unique target address for the server and or each network device to which the communication is intended. In step a determination is made as to whether the client has read only access. The determination can be made by the server . In certain example embodiments the determination is made based on the communication in step . Alternatively the determination is made based on logic rules. If the client has read only access the process proceeds to step . If the client does not have read only access i.e. the client can command and control the server and or one or more network devices the process proceeds to step .

In step read only access is provided to the client . The read only access can be provided by the server . The read only access can be provided to the client based on the communication of step . With read only access the client can perform such passive actions as monitoring the status of one or more network devices running reports based on the performance of one or more network devices and tracking activity of the server . However the read only access prohibits the client from controlling any network devices and or overriding the server . Once read only access is provided to the client the process proceeds to step .

In step control of one or more network devices is transferred to the client . Control of the network devices can be transferred to the client by the server . By having control of a network device the client can not only perform the passive functions listed above with respect to step but the client can also actively control the operating status e.g. turn on off adjust volume deliver audio output set alarm of the network device . The control of the network device by the client can be complete or shared in some way with the server .

In step a subsequent communication is received from the client . The subsequent communication can be a new communication compared to the communication of step . Alternatively the subsequent communication can be a stop in a communication from the client as when the client is powered down or is disconnected from the communication network. In certain example embodiments this step is optional.

In step control of the network devices is transferred from the client . Control of the network devices is transferred from the client by the server . Control of the network devices can be transferred from the client to another client to the server to an audio device or to some other component of the mass notification system . Control of the network devices can be transferred based on the subsequent communication from step . Alternatively control of the network devices can be transferred based on one or more other factors including but not limited to logic rules input from a user and the passage of time. After step is complete the process can proceed to the END step.

In addition a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that additional steps not shown in may be included in performing this method. Accordingly the specific arrangement of steps should not be construed as limiting the scope. Further a particular computing device as described for example in below can be used to perform one or more of the steps for the method described below in certain exemplary embodiments.

Referring now to the example method begins at the START step and proceeds to step where a communication is received from an audio device . The communication can be a signal of connection of the audio device to the communication network of the mass notification network . Alternatively the communication can be something generated and sent by the audio device . The communication can be received by the server and or a client . The communication can be a request a notification a confirmation of connection to the communication network or have any other purpose.

In step a determination is made as to whether logic rules are triggered by the communication. In certain example embodiments the determination is made based on one or more particulars e.g. the content the timing the recipient of the communication in step . The determination can be made by the server a client a user or some other component of the mass notification system . If logic rules apply the process proceeds to step . If logic rules do not apply the process proceeds to step .

In step control of one or more network devices is transferred to the audio device . Control of the network devices can be transferred to the audio device can be based on something other than logic rules such as a command from a user or a client . Control of the network devices can be transferred to the audio device by the server a user and or a client . By having control of a network device the audio device can actively control the operating status e.g. turn on off adjust volume deliver audio output of the network device . The control of the network device by the audio device can be complete or shared in some way with the server a client or some other component of the mass notification system .

In step a subsequent communication is received from the audio device . The subsequent communication can be a new communication compared to the communication of step . Alternatively the subsequent communication can be a stop in a communication from the audio device as when the audio device is powered down or is disconnected from the communication network. In certain example embodiments this step is optional.

In step control of the network devices is transferred from the audio device . Control of the network devices is transferred from the audio device by the server . Control of the network devices can be transferred from the audio device to a client to the server or to some other component of the mass notification system . Control of the network devices can be transferred based on the subsequent communication from step . Alternatively control of the network devices can be transferred based on one or more other factors including but not limited to input from a user and the passage of time. After step is complete the process can proceed to the END step.

In step control of one or more network devices is transferred to the audio device . Control of the network devices can be transferred to the audio device can be based on one or more logic rules . Control of the network devices can be transferred to the audio device by the server a user and or a client . By having control of a network device the audio device can actively control the operating status e.g. turn on off adjust volume deliver audio output of the network device . The control of the network device by the audio device can be complete or shared in some way with the server a client or some other component of the mass notification system .

In step control of the network devices is transferred from the audio device . Control of the network devices is transferred from the audio device by the server . Control of the network devices can be transferred from the audio device to a client to the server or to some other component of the mass notification system . Control of the network devices can be transferred based on the logic rules . After step is complete the process can proceed to the END step.

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more memory storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus includes wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Memory storage component includes volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Memory storage component includes fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

One or more I O devices allow a customer utility or other user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the customer utility or other user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include but are not limited to a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone and a scanner. Examples of output devices include but are not limited to a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer and a network card.

Various techniques are described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques are stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media is any available non transitory medium or non transitory media that is accessible by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media includes computer storage media .

 Computer storage media and computer readable medium include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to computer recordable media such as RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which is used to store the desired information and which is accessible by a computer.

The computer device is connected to a network not shown e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown according to some exemplary embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist e.g. desktop computer a laptop computer a personal media device a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant or any other computing system capable of executing computer readable instructions and the aforementioned input and output means take other forms now known or later developed in other exemplary embodiments. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice one or more embodiments.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer device is located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network in certain exemplary embodiments. Further one or more embodiments is implemented on a distributed system having one or more nodes where each portion of the implementation e.g. communication engine communication engine is located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node corresponds to a processor with associated physical memory in some exemplary embodiments. The node alternatively corresponds to a processor with shared memory and or resources in some exemplary embodiments.

Using example embodiments of mass notification systems described herein allows a user an audio device and or a client to access information in real time about one or more network devices within the mass notification system. This information can be used during steady state operation of one or more network devices and or when the state of one or more network devices changes. Existing equipment e.g. network communication channels needed to communicate with network devices can be used so additional resources needed to use example embodiments are minimal.

Installation or alteration of a client and or an audio device and its corresponding functionality as described herein may also be minimal. Specifically a client and or an audio device can be communicably coupled to any node in the communication network of the mass notification system and an addition to existing operating parameters and or change in software logic rules can be installed. Communicably coupling a client and or an audio device can be performed seamlessly often using wireless or a minimal amount of wired technology. Example embodiments are more efficient and flexible than existing mass notification systems. Costs of installing replacing modifying and or maintaining a mass notification system using example embodiments is reduced. Thus labor costs can also be reduced using example embodiments.

Although embodiments described herein are made with reference to example embodiments it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications are well within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the example embodiments described herein are not limited to any specifically discussed application and that the embodiments described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. From the description of the example embodiments equivalents of the elements shown therein will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and ways of constructing other embodiments using the present disclosure will suggest themselves to practitioners of the art. Therefore the scope of the example embodiments is not limited herein.

