---

title: Systems and methods for alignment of check during mobile deposit
abstract: An alignment guide may be provided in the field of view of a camera associated with a mobile device used to capture an image of a check. When the image of the check is within the alignment guide in the field of view, an image may be taken by the camera and provided from the mobile device to a financial institution. The alignment guide may be adjustable at the mobile device. The image capture may be performed automatically by the camera or the mobile device as soon as the image of the check is determined to be within the alignment guide. The check may be deposited in a user's bank account based on the image. Any technique for sending the image to the financial institution may be used.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336517&OS=09336517&RS=09336517
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 09336517
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141016
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 224 944 filed Mar. 25 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 549 443 filed Aug. 28 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 699 779 wherein the entirety of each of the aforementioned applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Checks typically provide a safe and convenient method for an individual such as a payor to transfer funds to a payee. To use a check the individual usually opens a checking account or other similar account at a financial institution and deposits funds which are then available for later withdrawal. To transfer funds with a check the payor usually designates a payee and an amount payable on the check. In addition the payor often signs the check. Once the check has been signed it is usually deemed negotiable meaning the check may be validly transferred to the payee upon delivery. By signing and transferring the check to the payee the payor authorizes funds to be withdrawn from the payor s account on behalf of the payee.

While a check may provide a payor with a convenient and secure form of payment receiving a check may put certain burdens on the payee such as the time and effort required to deposit the check. For example depositing a check typically involves going to a local bank branch and physically presenting the check to a bank teller. To reduce such burdens for the payee systems and methods have been developed to enable the remote deposit of checks.

For example the payee may capture a digital image of a check using a mobile device. The financial institution may then receive from the payee the digital image of the check. The financial institution may then use the digital image to credit funds to the payee. However such a technique requires the efficient and accurate detection and extraction of the information pertaining to a check in the digital image. Capturing a digital image at a mobile device that allows for detection and extraction of the information from the digital image is difficult.

An alignment guide may be provided in the field of view of a camera associated with a mobile device used to capture an image of a check. When the image of the check is within the alignment guide in the field of view an image may be taken by the camera and provided from the mobile device to a financial institution. The check may be deposited in a user s bank account based on the image. Any technique for sending the image to the financial institution may be used.

In an implementation the alignment guide may be adjustable at the mobile device. The adjustment may be made by the user the financial institution the camera and or the mobile device. In an implementation an image may be captured when the image of the check is detected to be within the alignment guide. The image capture may be performed automatically by the camera or the mobile device as soon as the image of the check is determined to be within the alignment guide.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In the following detailed description of example embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the example methods apparatuses and systems may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be used and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of this description.

A negotiable instrument typically includes a type of contract that obligates one party to pay a specified sum of money to another party. Negotiable instrument as used herein is an unconditioned writing that promises or orders payment of a fixed amount of money. One example of a negotiable instrument is a check. The check may be taken by the receiving party and deposited into an account at a financial institution of the receiving party. The receiving party may endorse the check and then present it for deposit at a bank branch via an automated teller machine ATM or by using remote deposit. Other examples of negotiable instruments include money orders cashier s checks drafts bills of exchange promissory notes and the like. A money order is a trusted financial instrument that is a payment order for a pre specified amount of money. A cashier s check also known as a bank check official check teller s check bank draft or treasurer s check is a check guaranteed by a bank and may be purchased from a bank.

The user may be an individual or entity who owns account that may be held at financial institution . Account may be any type of deposit account for depositing funds such as a savings account a checking account a brokerage account and the like. The user may deposit a check or other negotiable instrument in the account either electronically or physically. The financial institution may process and or clear the check or other negotiable instrument. The user may communicate with financial institution by way of communications network such as an intranet the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless fidelity WiFi network a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. The user may communicate with financial institution by phone email instant messaging text messaging web chat facsimile mail and the like. Financial institutions and also may communicate with each other by way of communications network .

In an implementation the user may receive payment from another individual such as a payor in the form of a check or other negotiable instrument that is drawn from account at financial institution . The user may endorse the check e.g. sign the back of the check and indicate an account number on the check for depositing the funds. It is noted that although examples described herein may refer to a check the techniques and systems described herein are contemplated for and may be used for deposit of any negotiable instrument. Similarly the techniques and systems described herein are contemplated for and may be used with any form or document whose image may be captured with a camera or other imaging device of a mobile device for subsequent storage and or processing.

As described further herein a digital image of a check or other negotiable instrument may be provided from a user to a financial institution and the digital image may be processed and funds associated with the check or negotiable instrument in the digital image may be deposited in a user s bank account. The user may deposit the check into account by making a digital image of the check and sending the image file containing the digital image to financial institution . For example after endorsing the check the user may use a mobile device that comprises a camera to convert the check into a digital image by taking a picture of the front and or back of the check . The mobile device may be a mobile phone also known as a wireless phone or a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA or any handheld computing device for example. Aspects of an example mobile device are described with respect to .

To increase the likelihood of capturing a digital image of the check that may be readable and processed such that the check can be cleared an alignment guide may be provided in the field of view of the camera of the mobile device . The field of view is that part of the world that is visible through the camera at a particular position and orientation in space objects outside the field of view when the image is captured are not recorded in the image. The user may move the camera or the check until the check is viewed within the alignment guide in the field of view of the camera. The digital image of the check may then be captured. The alignment guide may provide a pre image capture quality check that helps reduce the number of non comforming images of checks during presentment of the images to a financial institution for processing and clearing.

In an implementation the image capture may be performed automatically by the camera or the mobile device as soon as the image of the check is determined to be within the alignment guide. Alternatively the user may manually instruct the camera to perform the image capture e.g. by pressing a button the camera or the mobile device . Examples of alignment guides are described further with respect to for example.

In an implementation the user may send the digital image s to financial institution using the mobile device . Any technique for sending a digital image to financial institution may be used such as providing a digital image to a website associated with financial institution from storage emailing a digital image to financial institution or sending a digital image in a text message or instant message for example.

Financial institution may receive a digital image representing the check and may use any known image processing software or other application s to obtain the relevant data of the check from the digital image. Financial institution may determine whether the financial information associated therewith may be valid. For example financial institution may include any combination of systems and subsystems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like. According to an embodiment the electronic devices may include a network based server that may process the financial information and may receive the digital image from the user .

The electronic devices may receive the digital image and may perform an initial analysis on the quality of the digital image the readability of the data contained therein or the like. For example the electronic devices may determine whether the account number amount payable and the like may be readable such that it may be parsed or otherwise obtained and processed by the financial institution to credit an account associated with the user and debit an account associated with the payor. In an implementation a representative of financial institution may provide assistance to the user and may provide assistance in determining whether the financial information may be readable and or of a good enough quality to be processed as described further herein.

Upon receipt and approval of the digital image financial institution may credit the funds to account . Financial institution may clear the check by presenting a digital image of the check captured from the digital image to an intermediary bank such as a regional branch of the Federal Reserve a correspondent bank and or a clearinghouse bank. For example the check may be cleared by presenting the digital image to financial institution which may be a regional branch of the Federal Reserve along with a request for payment. Financial institutions and may have accounts at the regional branch of the Federal Reserve. Financial institution may create a substitute check using the image provided by the user and present the substitute check to financial institution for further processing. Upon receiving the substitute check financial institution may identify financial institution as the paying bank e.g. the bank from which the check is drawn . This may be accomplished using a nine digit routing number located on the bottom left hand corner of the check. A unique routing number is typically assigned to every financial institution in the United States. Financial institution may present the substitute check to financial institution and request that the check be paid. If financial institution verifies the check i.e. agrees to honor the check financial institution may then settle the check by debiting funds from financial institution and crediting funds to financial institution . Financial institution may then debit funds from account .

It will be appreciated that the preceding examples are for purposes of illustration and explanation only and that an embodiment is not limited to such examples. For example financial institution may be a correspondent bank i.e. engaged in a partnership with financial institution . Thus financial institution may bypass the regional branch of the Federal Reserve and clear the check directly with financial institution . In addition account and account may both be held at financial institution in which case the check may be cleared internally.

In an implementation the mobile device may comprise a camera such as a digital camera. Such a mobile device may be called a camera phone. The mobile device through the camera has the ability to take or capture a picture or digital image of the check or other negotiable instrument. The camera may take an image of the front of the check . Alternatively the camera may take an image of both the front and the back of the check . The back of the check may provide endorsement verification such as the signature of the person or party the check is made out to. In an implementation an alignment guide may be provided within the field of view of the camera e.g. using a software application running on the mobile device . The alignment guide may be provided during image capture to assist the user in positioning the check so that the image of the check may be captured in such a manner that it may be more easily processed and cleared during subsequent operations such as those involving one or more financial institutions.

A depository may include a bank in which the user has a deposit account however the present disclosure is not limited to just banks. Alternatively a third party may act as the depository providing functionality to a plurality of users without regard to the bank at which they have deposit accounts or whether their individual bank allows for the methods and systems described herein. The depository in an implementation after receiving the image s of the check from the user may use a clearinghouse to perform the check clearing operations. As described with respect to the system of check clearing operations are used by banks to do the final settlement of the check such as removing funds from the account of the payor and transferring those funds to the user s bank. The user s bank may choose to make the funds available to the user immediately and take on the risk that the check does not clear. However for various reasons the bank may only make those funds available to the user after the check finally clears.

The image may be provided in the field of view of the camera during image capture of the check . The user may move the camera or the check so that the check image appears within or lines up with the alignment guide . Some of the background image e.g. the background on which the check is placed during capture of the image of the check may also be within the alignment guide .

When the check image is within the alignment guide e.g. the edges of the check image are aligned with respect to the alignment guide such as parallel to the associated portion of the alignment guide the check image and the background image if any that are within the alignment guide may be captured either automatically e.g. by the camera or the mobile device under direction of an application running on the camera or the mobile device or the financial institution or manually e.g. by the user pressing a button or making a selection on the camera or the mobile device .

The digital image thus captured may be provided from the mobile device to a financial institution. The check may be deposited in a user s bank account based on the digital image. Any technique for sending the digital image to the financial institution may be used.

In an implementation an alignment guide may be provided that is adjustable at the mobile device . The adjustment may be made by the user the mobile device and or the camera e.g. an application running on the mobile device and or the camera and or the financial institution . is a diagram of an example image comprising a check image a background image and an alignment guide . The alignment guide is shown as a bounding rectangle though any shape s or indicator s may be used. With a bounding rectangle for example used as the alignment guide aligning the check means enclosing the check within the alignment guide.

The alignment guide may be adjustable by the user via one or more adjustment buttons selectors arrows or other indicators shown in as an adjustment button of the camera . For example the user may use the adjustment button to change the shape aspect ratio and or the location of the alignment guide in the field of view of the camera . In an implementation the user may select the alignment guide using any known selection techniques e.g. moving a cursor to the alignment guide highlighting or clicking on the alignment guide selecting the alignment guide from a pull down menu of the camera or the mobile device and may use the adjustment button to modify the alignment guide . In an implementation the user may select which alignment guide from a plurality of alignment guides is to be displayed on the field of view. The camera or the mobile device may store a plurality of alignment guides and the user may use any known selection technique s to select an alignment guide that is be displayed on the field of view of the camera .

The adjustment button may be provided as one or more physical buttons associated with the camera or the mobile device or may be provided as a selectable button for example on a touch screen associated with the camera or the mobile device . In an implementation the display for the image may comprise a touch screen and the adjustment button may be provided on the touch screen e.g. overlaying some of the check image and or the background image .

In an implementation instead of using the adjustment button the user may use a finger a stylus or any other input device to change the shape aspect ratio and or the location of the alignment guide in the field of view of the camera . Additionally or alternatively the user may perform cropping on the image prior to the image being captured by the camera . Using any type of selection tool provided with the camera or the mobile device the user may indicate the location of the edges of the check image for example. Such an indication may be used in the subsequent capture and or processing of the image of the check .

The client may log in to a remote deposit system executed on the server . The login may serve to authenticate the user as an authorized consumer of the depository .

The server in one example may send instructions to the client that execute an application on the client . This may include instructions that cause a software object which may have been previously downloaded and installed e.g. pre installed on the client to be executed on the client . The software object may generate and display an alignment guide such as the alignment guide or in the field of view of a digital camera such as the camera associated with the mobile device .

In another example the instructions may include a wholly self contained application that when delivered to the client will execute and perform one or more operations described herein such as those directed to generating and displaying an alignment guide in the field of view of the camera . In either example the software object may be configured to make one or more software calls to the camera . This may be through specific software instructions to the camera. In other words the camera s functionality may not be abstracted through any software library. In such an example software code may be written and delivered to every different camera equipped mobile phone.

In an alternate example the software object may operate through a software abstraction layer such as an application programming interface API . The software object developer may only insert code into the software object to call one or more APIs exposed by the software operating the mobile device. One example of such software is Windows Mobile by Microsoft Corporation. In the context of a Windows Mobile device the Windows Mobile operating system OS has one or more APIs exposed to application developers that will translate instructions from applications into instructions operable by the camera on the mobile device . A mobile operating system also known as a mobile platform or a handheld operating system is the operating system that controls a mobile device. Other mobiles OSs include Symbian OS iPhone OS Palm OS BlackBerry OS and Android.

The software object may cause the camera to generate and display an alignment guide in the field of view and or take a picture or capture one or more images of the check being deposited. These images may be captured sequentially e.g. pursuant to the user flipping the check over after an image of the front of the check has been captured within the alignment guide. However each side of the check may be captured by the camera using similar API calls. The images may be stored in an image file .

Once the images of one or both sides of the check are captured within the alignment guide by the camera the image file may be operated on by the software object of the client . These operations may include any of the following deskewing dewarping magnetic ink character recognition MICR cropping either automatically or having the user manually identify the corners and or edges of the check for example reducing the resolution of the image number detection character recognition and the like.

With respect to number and character recognition commercial check scanners have used characteristics of the MICR encoding to detect information about the check such as the bank s routing number and the account number. However the characteristics that these scanners have used are the magnetic characteristic of the ink itself and these scanners have used methods similar to those of magnetic audio tape readers. In an implementation a software object of the client may optically recognize the characters on the MICR line as a consumer mobile device such as the mobile device will lack the magnetic reading ability of a commercial check scanner.

The image may be also down converted into a grayscale or black and white image such as either in Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG compliant format or in tabbed image file format TIFF for example. In an alternate example the image may be formatted as a Scalable Vector Graphics SVG image. One of the benefits of an SVG file is a large size advantage over JPEG. In the former example the image at some point before entry into the clearing system may be converted to TIFF format. This may be performed at the mobile device wherein the camera captures the image in TIFF format. However the camera of the mobile device may capture the image in JPEG format which may then be converted into TIFF either at the mobile device or at the server . In the latter example this may use the transmission of the TIFF image across a communications network which may be more advantageous as TIFF images are typically smaller in file size for the same size of picture as a JPEG formatted image.

The software object on the client may operate by performing one or more of the operations described herein and then transmitting an image file e.g. based on image file that has been processed to the server after the user confirms that they do wish to deposit the check . Alternately the software object may capture the image of the check and transmit that image to the server that in turn may perform those operations verifies that the image quality is within acceptable thresholds and communicates that verification back to the client which can then instruct the user to take a picture of the other side of the check . In this example the image transmitted to the server may be in any format such as JPEG or TIFF insofar as the server software has the ability to convert that image into a Check 21 compliant format. Alternately the bank may output an X9.37 file to the clearing system. The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act or Check 21 Act is a United States federal law that allows the recipient of a paper check to create a digital version thereby eliminating the need for further handling of the physical document. The Check 21 standard for electronic exchange is defined in the standard DSTU X9.37 2003 X9.37 . It is a binary interchange format.

The server may confirm e.g. using a process confirmation with the user the transmission reception and processing of each side of the check separately or may confirm both sides at the same time. On the server side more operations may be performed such as signature verification. Where to perform these operations may be determined by the processing power of the mobile device itself which is typically limited in computational power. However the present discussion is not limited in any way by discussion of where certain operations are described as operating. The operations of detecting and verifying information may be performed by the client before the information is transmitted along with the image in the image file to the server . Alternately the software object s operating on the mobile device may perform no operation other then capturing images of the front and back of the check within the alignment guide receiving confirmation that the user wishes to proceed and transmitting those images to the server wherein the server performs those operations.

In an implementation after the image file has been received by the server the server may send a process confirmation to the client . The process confirmation may request instructions from the client to continue proceeding with the deposit now that the server has received the image file . In response the client may send a deposit confirmation to the server instructing the server to process the deposit of the check based on the image file that had been received by the server .

In an implementation the check images may be received following a software call from the check processing module to the image capture module . In such an implementation the image capture module may include the camera contained within the mobile device . Alternately the camera may be detachably coupled to the mobile device such as through a secure digital SD slot or over any suitable communications bus such as USB universal serial bus .

In an implementation the image capture module may retrieve previously captured and stored image files e.g. in local remote or removable storage associated with the client apparatus and send the image files to a financial institution e.g. financial institution the server the server apparatus of etc. for processing.

In an implementation the client apparatus may comprise a browser such as a web browser for accessing a website on the Internet or other network associated with a financial institution. The user may access the website and select a capture image link or similar icon button or link for example displayed on the browser. Such a selection may call the image capture module on the client apparatus .

The communications module may be configured in one example to receive and send data signals over a suitable communications network. This may include without limitation GSM GPR3 HSDPA CDMA TDMA 802.11 802.16 and the like. While the bandwidth available to the mobile device may be an implementation concern such discussion is outside the scope of the present discussion and any suitable wireless communications network is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion. With respect to the present discussion the communications module may receive one or more processed check images from the check processing module and may transmit them over the suitable communications network to the depository as described herein.

The check processing module may be configured in one example to cause the image capture module to capture a digital image of at least one side of a check within an alignment guide provided in a field of view of the camera . The alignment guide is intended to ensure that the image of the check is suitable for one or more processing tasks. For instance if the check is rotated 45 degrees clockwise when captured the check processing module or a software object operated on the server described above may be unable to optically detect information on the check.

The check processing module may then perform one or more cleaning operations on the image of the check. For example the check processing module may deskew the image. Another aspect of an image that may be cleaned is a warping of the image. Warping as used herein is meant to denote that the check is tilted forward or back with respect to a plane that is perpendicular to a line drawn from the camera lens to the center of the check. Warping or tilting of the image may also lead to incorrect optical detection of the check. In an implementation the check processing module may dewarp the check image such that in a three dimensional space the check would appear to be perpendicular to an imaginary line drawn from the center of the camera lens to the center of the check itself.

The check processing module in further examples may perform one or more other cleaning or processing operations. This may include down converting the image received from the image capture module to a suitable size such as 200 dots per inch DPI resolution or in a resolution range such as 200 DPI to 400 DPI 300 DPI to 500 DPI etc. and or converting the image to grayscale or black and white. Such operation s may reduce the file size of the check image.

Alternatively the check processing module may send instructions to the image capture module to cause the image capture module to capture an image of the check at a suitable resolution within an alignment guide. The check processing module may additionally perform any of the following operations in further examples convert from JPEG to TIFF detect check information perform signature detection on the image of the check and the like. The check processing module may alternatively send the captured check image to the server described herein for such processing and receive confirmation that the operations were completed before further operations can proceed.

One of the issues with check processing is to detect the presence of a check against whatever background is present. While a user may be instructed to place the check on a dark or black background such instructions may not provide a positive user experience. Alternatively or additionally edge detection may be used to detect the check. Edge detection techniques are well known and any suitable method may be used herein. Alternative or additional methodology for check detection may use tile cropping to detect and process the check.

The size of the file sent between the mobile device and the server may be small. This runs counter with respect to automatic check detection against a background. If captured in color the contrast between check and background becomes easier. However the processed image sent over the communications network may need to be smaller and if the detection operation is performed by the server it may be advantageous to convert the captured image to grayscale or even black and white before transmission to the server. Grayscale images are compliant with the Check 21 Act.

While flat is a fairly well known term to users each user s appreciation of flat with respect to the camera lens of the camera associated with the mobile device may result in a problem with needing to align the check image programmatically or risk rejecting a large number of check images. As the image captured is a set of pixels a tilted image will result in a jagged polygon rather than a perfect rectangle. Using convex hull algorithms the check processing modules may create a smooth polygon around the boundary and remove the concavity of the check image. Alternatively a rotating calipers algorithm may be used to determine the tightest fitting rectangle around the check boundary which can then be used to determine the angle of it with that angle being used to align the check properly.

The operator of the camera may introduce distortions in the image due to a perspective problem specifically an angling of the camera vertically over the check and the top of the check is smaller than the bottom or the reverse. A warping transformation algorithm e.g. which may be exposed as a software call within Java advanced imaging may be used to remove this distortion.

If user involvement is tolerated the user may be queried to supply or identify three of the four corners of the check. In such an operation the fourth corner may be derived showing the perimeter of the check. This may allow a software object described herein to use less computational resources in processing the image of the check.

The communications module may be configured to receive a wireless communication from the mobile device over any suitable communications network such as those described above. The communications module may additionally receive a communication over a different communications network than the mobile device communicated on such as receiving the communication over a TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol connection from the user s communication provider.

The check processing module may be configured in one example to perform one or more check processing operations on the processed image s that are received. In an implementation these operations may include any of the operations described herein with respect to the check processing module of . The operation of signature verification may be performed by the check processing module of the server apparatus as the server apparatus may interface with other systems of the depository that may maintain previously verified signature samples of the user . Performing signature verification at the client apparatus may be computationally unfeasible additionally there may be a security risk if the signature sample is stored on the user s own device.

A cropped grayscale image may be sent to the server apparatus . The server apparatus may perform further processing to remove distortion such as warping. The server apparatus may extract information via a TIFF conversion and determine the DPI and re scale to the proper DPI e.g. convert to TIFF and detect the DPI that was used in the grayscale image . In an implementation DPI detection may run on the client apparatus .

The check clearance module may be configured in one example to receive a file from the check processing module and may communicate with a check clearinghouse such that a Check 21 compliant file may be delivered to the check clearinghouse and funds may be received by the depository . The availability of the funds to the user may be delayed by this operation such that the user only has access to those funds when the depository receives confirmation that the check has cleared.

At the system may initialize a software object on the mobile device. This may include sending instructions to the mobile device intended to execute a previously installed i.e. pre installed software object. Alternatively the system may send a software object to the mobile device that may execute the software object carry out operations described herein by use of the software object and terminate the software object. In an implementation the system may instruct a camera associated with the mobile device to capture an image of the negotiable instrument. The system may also instruct the camera or the mobile device to generate and display an alignment guide in the field of view of the camera.

At an alignment guide such as the alignment guide or may be provided in the field of view of the camera. The alignment guide may be generated and displayed pursuant to instructions received at the camera or mobile device from the deposit system operated by a depository the server or the server apparatus for example.

At an image of the check may be captured when the check is displayed within the alignment guide in the field of view. This may be accomplished through the software object accessing a camera associated with the mobile device e.g. either comprised within the mobile device or separate from the mobile device . This may be done through an API exposed by the OS of the mobile device or may be through software code customized for a specific phone and specific camera. With respect to the former a developer of the software object may write code to the camera API s which may be specific to the OS and without regard to the camera on the device. In an implementation the user may be directed to scale or move the captured image to ensure it is properly framed within the alignment guide.

At the image may be cleaned. Cleaning may include converting the image from JPEG format to TIFF format. Other cleaning operations are described herein. Cleaning operations may also be augmented by detecting operations. The operations at may be carried out on the mobile device in an implementation though may include sending the image to the server apparatus which may perform one or more cleaning operations and when complete may send a notification back to the mobile device of the completion. In either instance the image may be deskewed dewarped and cropped for example at . Additionally detection operations may be performed e.g. after the cleaning operations are performed. The detection operations may include any of the following for example optically read the MICR line courtesy amount recognition CAR legal amount recognition LAR signature block and payee. As discussed above the detecting operations may be performed by the client the server or some combination thereof.

In an implementation an application on the mobile device may crop the image around where the alignment guide was during the image capture. Edge detection may be performed on the cropped image. In an implementation the user may manually perform cropping on the image after the application crops the image around the alignment guide s position.

At the cleaned image may be transmitted to the depository. This may include transmitting the cleaned image alone to the depository but may also include transmitting the detected information on the check to the depository. In an implementation coordinate data of the alignment guide may be provided to the depository. Such coordinate data may correspond to the coordinates of the alignment guide in the field of view of the camera or in the image generated by the camera. Alternatively or additionally the user can identify on the display of the captured image where each of the corners of the check is and the coordinate data e.g. pertaining to the identified corners and or corner identification information may be provided to the depository along with the image of the check. The depository may use the coordinate data and or corner identification information during subsequent processing such as cropping edge detection etc.

At the depository may receive the cleaned image of the check along with financial information pertaining to the account for depositing funds for example and may process the image. Processing of the digital image file may include retrieving financial information regarding the check. The financial information may comprise the MICR number the routing number an amount etc. Any known image processing technology may be used such as edge detection filtering to remove imagery except the check image or check data in the received digital image file image sharpening and technologies to distinguish between the front and the back sides of the check. The depository may identify and or remove at least a portion of data that is extraneous to the check such as background data.

After retrieving the financial information from the check in an electronic data representation form the depository may determine whether the financial information such as the amount payable to the user the account associated with the user to deposit funds an account associated with a payor to debit funds and an institution associated with the payor etc. may be valid. For example the depository may include electronic devices such as computers servers databases or the like that may be in communication with each other. The electronic devices may receive an electronic data representation and may perform an analysis on the quality of the data representation the readability of the data representation or the like. For example the electronic devices may determine whether the account number amount payable or the like may be readable such that they may be parsed and processed by the depository to credit an account associated with the user.

If the financial information is determined to be valid the electronic data representation may be processed by the depository thereby depositing the money in the user s account. If the financial information is determined to be invalid then the user may be advised. For example the depository may transmit an email a web message an instant message or the like to the user indicating that the financial information associated with the electronic data representation may be invalid. The user may determine how to proceed by selecting an option on the web message replying to the email or the like.

Thus in an implementation instructions on how the user would like to proceed may be requested from the user such as whether the user would like to try the deposit again e.g. make another image of the check within the alignment guide and send it to the depository or whether the user would like assistance from a representative for example. The user may indicate how they would like to proceed.

If the user would like assistance the financial information may be transferred to a representative for further review. The representative may review the financial information associated with the electronic data representation to determine whether to allow the electronic data representation to be processed by the depository. If so the electronic data representation of the financial information may be processed by the depository thereby depositing the check in the user s account. The depository may send a notice to the user via email facsimile instant message or mail for example that the check has been deposited into the selected account.

At the user may send a request to deposit the check and may select an account in which to deposit the check. In an implementation the user may select a deposit check option provided on the website and may enter details such as check amount date the account the check funds should be deposited in comments etc.

At an alignment guide may be provided in the field of view of the camera that is used to create a digital image of the check. The alignment guide such as the alignment guide may be adjustable e.g. using an adjustment button such as the adjustment button or other selection and adjustment techniques.

The user may position the camera and the check such that the check is in the field of view of the camera and at may manually adjust the alignment guide and or the check so that the alignment guide is adjusted with respect to the image of the check that is displayed in the field of view. Alternatively the camera the mobile device or the institution may adjust the alignment guide without user intervention so that the image of the check that is displayed in the field of view is positioned within the alignment guide. In an implementation the camera the mobile device or the institution may provide feedback to the user regarding the alignment guide and the positioning of the check with respect to the alignment guide.

At when the image of the check is within the alignment guide a digital image of the check may be created using the camera. In an implementation the user may instruct the camera e.g. by pressing a button on the camera or the mobile device to create the digital image. In another implementation the camera may automatically create the digital image as soon as the image of the check is within the alignment guide. In this manner the user may point the camera at the check such that the image of the check appears in the field of view and after the alignment guide has been adjusted either by the user or automatically by the camera the mobile device or the financial institution via a communications network and or the check has been repositioned within the alignment guide by the user a digital image of the check may be created without further user intervention. Depending on the implementation one or more digital images of the check e.g. corresponding to the front and back of the check may be created using such techniques.

At the digital image s may be uploaded to the institution using any known image upload process. In an implementation the upload may be augmented by secondary data which may be information relating to the deposit of the check such as an account number and a deposit amount for example. At when the institution has received the digital images e.g. of the front and back sides of the check the institution may process the digital images to obtain an image of the check and to deposit the funds of the check in the user s account as described herein.

It is contemplated that processing such as grayscale conversion image cropping image compression dewarping edge and or corner detection etc. may be implemented in the method . Such operations may be performed on one or more digital images created by the camera and may be performed on the image s by the mobile device and or by the institution as described further above.

Although the examples described herein may refer to uploading of images of checks to an institution it is contemplated that any negotiable instrument or image e.g. vehicle accident pictures provided to an insurance company may be processed and or transmitted using the techniques described herein. Additionally one or more of the techniques described herein may be performed by the institution instead of the mobile device of the user.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to a system includes a computer connected to a network . The computer includes a processor a storage device an output device an input device and a network interface device all connected via a bus . The processor represents a central processing unit of any type of architecture such as a CISC Complex Instruction Set Computing RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computing VLIW Very Long Instruction Word or a hybrid architecture although any appropriate processor may be used. The processor executes instructions and includes that portion of the computer that controls the operation of the entire computer. Although not depicted in the processor typically includes a control unit that organizes data and program storage in memory and transfers data and other information between the various parts of the computer . The processor receives input data from the input device and the network reads and stores code and data in the storage device and presents data to the output device .

Although the computer is shown to contain only a single processor and a single bus the disclosed embodiment applies equally to computers that may have multiple processors and to computers that may have multiple busses with some or all performing different functions in different ways.

The storage device represents one or more mechanisms for storing data. For example the storage device may include read only memory ROM RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and or other machine readable media. In other embodiments any appropriate type of storage device may be used. Although only one storage device is shown multiple storage devices and multiple types of storage devices may be present. Further although the computer is drawn to contain the storage device it may be distributed across other computers for example on a server.

The storage device includes a controller not shown in and data items . The controller includes instructions capable of being executed on the processor to carry out the functions as previously described herein with reference to . In another embodiment some or all of the functions are carried out via hardware in lieu of a processor based system. In one embodiment the controller is a web browser but in other embodiments the controller may be a database system a file system an electronic mail system a media manager an image manager or may include any other functions capable of accessing data items. The storage device may also contain additional software and data not shown which is not necessary to understand the invention. Although the controller and the data items are shown to be within the storage device in the computer some or all of them may be distributed across other systems for example on a server and accessed via the network .

The output device is that part of the computer that displays output to the user. The output device may be a liquid crystal display LCD well known in the art of computer hardware. In other embodiments the output device may be replaced with a gas or plasma based flat panel display or a traditional cathode ray tube CRT display. In still other embodiments any appropriate display device may be used. Although only one output device is shown in other embodiments any number of output devices of different types or of the same type may be present. In an embodiment the output device displays a user interface.

The input device may be a keyboard mouse or other pointing device trackball touchpad touch screen keypad microphone voice recognition device or any other appropriate mechanism for the user to input data to the computer and manipulate the user interface previously discussed. Although only one input device is shown in another embodiment any number and type of input devices may be present.

The network interface device provides connectivity from the computer to the network through any suitable communications protocol. The network interface device sends and receives data items from the network .

The bus may represent one or more busses e.g. USB PCI ISA Industry Standard Architecture X Bus EISA Extended Industry Standard Architecture or any other appropriate bus and or bridge also called a bus controller .

The computer may be implemented using any suitable hardware and or software such as a personal computer or other electronic computing device. Portable computers laptop or notebook computers PDAs pocket computers appliances telephones and mainframe computers are examples of other possible configurations of the computer . For example other peripheral devices such as audio adapters or chip programming devices such as EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory programming devices may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware already depicted.

The network may be any suitable network and may support any appropriate protocol suitable for communication to the computer . In an embodiment the network may support wireless communications. In another embodiment the network may support hard wired communications such as a telephone line or cable. In another embodiment the network may support the Ethernet IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.3x specification. In another embodiment the network may be the Internet and may support IP Internet Protocol . In another embodiment the network may be a LAN or a WAN. In another embodiment the network may be a hotspot service provider network. In another embodiment the network may be an intranet. In another embodiment the network may be a GPRS General Packet Radio Service network. In another embodiment the network may be any appropriate cellular data network or cell based radio network technology. In another embodiment the network may be an IEEE 802.11 wireless network. In still another embodiment the network may be any suitable network or combination of networks. Although one network is shown in other embodiments any number of networks of the same or different types may be present.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or use the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to using aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

