---

title: Systems, apparatus, and methods of a solar energy grid integrated system with energy storage appliance
abstract: An enclosure for integrating distributed energy sources, provides a compact enclosure that fits within a utility workspace and enclosures that can be mechanically coupled together, placed in parallel or in a series.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600045&OS=09600045&RS=09600045
owner: SUNVERGE ENERGY, INC.
number: 09600045
owner_city: Stockton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140326
---
This application is a Continuation application of commonly owned U.S. patent Nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 891 185 submitted May 9 2013 by Dean Sanders which is incorporated herein in its entirety and from which priority is hereby claimed. Ser. No. 13 891 185 is a Divisional of commonly owned application of U.S. patent Nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 016 901 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 463 449.

The present invention relates generally to distributed energy storage and power management and more particularly to a fully integrated system method and device for the controlling monitoring measuring and conserving distributed power generated on the premise the resale of distributed power to a utility and power generated from distributed energy storage e.g. batteries and distributed renewable energy sources e.g. solar panels . Moreover the invention is minimally invasive modular and retains power generating capacity which is combined with load management and energy storage to provide energy at or near the point of consumption.

The appliance described herein includes a lockable NEMA or 3R contaminate or corrosion resistant enclosure which houses a plurality of devices for accomplishing localized and remote control electrical energy management for electrical loads sited at the appliance location. Additionally the devices may be controlled to provide voltage support to the utility grid. The SEGIS ES appliance includes the following devices DC AC and AC DC intelligent controllable inverter converter also called a hybrid inverter converter intelligent Battery charge controller with Multi Point solar panel Power Tracking ability electrical energy storage means Intelligent battery management system isolation switch panel board Intelligent data processing communications gateway and termination points for solar array electricity input and electric utility interconnection

There exist several technologies that can produce electricity on a premises whether a residential or commercial building. Among these are photovoltaic panels e.g. solar panels small scale natural gas turbines also known as niicro turbines small scale wind turbines as contrasted to the large turbines used in grid connected wind farms low pressure water turbines high pressure low flow water turbines and fuel cells using hydrogen natural gas and potentially other hydrocarbons. These technologies are herein referred to as distributed energy sources. Distributed energy sources have been deployed only to a very limited extent for reasons of cost convenience and a lack of harmonized grid inter connection standards. Historically power storage and supply devices typically involve the charging of batteries that store energy in the event of a power failure of a home or business main source of electricity which is normally provided from a utility power grid connected to the home or business and are designed to support the entire or selected electrical load of the home or business. As a result residential and commercial power storage and supply devices are typically very large and cumbersome. Some power storage and supply devices use alternative energy sources such as the ones listed above. The power storage and supply devices store the electric power produced by an alternative energy source and may even supply power to a utility power grid in essence operating as a small distributed power generation plant. Many local state and federal government agencies as well as private utility companies are encouraging this practice as evidence by the changing regulatory environment and passage of such distributed power and energy storage policy as AB970 SB412 SB14 and AB44. Further rule makers such as FERC CASIO and the CPUC are making priority changes e.g. CEC Integrated Energy Policy Report CAISO implementation of FERC Order 719 etc. which encourage or mandate the use of distributed energy storage and power generation. Unfortunately the use of alternative energy sources in conjunction with such power storage and supply device systems has been limited primarily because of cost and convenience and communications standards.

In recent years however the costs associated with adopting and using alternative energy sources has decreased substantially as distributed energy power and storage technology have been refined sales have increased due to the creation of new markets e.g. plug in electric hybrid vehicles and the globalized adoption of solar technologies and more suppliers have entered the market resulting in greater manufacturing capacity and market competitiveness for both photovoltaic and battery manufacturers. The cost barriers to distributed electrical technologies are also eroding due to factors such as real and or perceived increases in the cost of electricity and other forms of energy the widespread adoption of time of use pricing TOU or real time pricing RTP by utilities favorable terms for the utilities purchase of power from such distributed sources and government financial incentives e.g. The federal business energy investment tax credit available under 26 USC 48 was expanded significantly by the Energy Improvement and Extension Act of 2008 H.R. 1424 enacted in October 2008 etc. which encourage investment in distributed and environmentally more benign electrical technologies.

Adoption of distributed energy power and storage technologies is also increasing due to the widespread implementation of an Advanced Metering Infrastructure commonly referred to as AMI. Advanced metering systems are comprised of state of the art electronic digital hardware and software which combine interval data measurement with continuously available remote communications. These systems enable measurement of detailed time based information and frequent collection and transmittal of such information to various parties. AMI typically refers to the full measurement and collection system that includes meters at the customer site communication networks between the customer and a service provider such as an electric gas or water utility and data reception and management systems that make the information available to the service provider. With AMI utilities are now better able to manage installed devices within the homes of participating consumers that under utility control selectively disable energy consuming devices e.g. hot water heaters or air conditioning units in response to peak loading conditions. Furthermore utilities are now able in certain cases to remotely activate and aggregate distributed power and energy supplies to increase the supply of electricity to constrained parts of the electricity grid.

There has been an increasing emphasis in recent years on energy conservation. Electric utilities have also come under increasing pressure to reduce the need to fire up polluting power plants to serve peak demands such as during hot summer days. With the enactment of current legislation and rulemaking e.g. AB970 AB32 and FERC Order 719 etc. electric utilities also have an incentive to smooth out energy demand to minimize the need to install new power transmission and distribution lines further negating environmental and land use issues. An example of just a few of the ways which utilities can perform these tasks are referred to as demand side management and supply side management. Demand side management refers to the selective reduction of energy demand in response to peak loading conditions. For example utilities have for years installed devices in the homes of participating consumers that under utility control selectively disable energy consuming devices e.g. hot water heaters or air conditioning units in response to peak loading conditions. As another example utilities are able in certain cases to remotely activate energy supplies to increase the supply of electricity to parts of the electricity grid. It would be advantageous to provide more sophisticated control mechanisms to permit electric utilities and others to effectively monitor and control distributed energy resources such as storage units capable of storing electricity and reselling it to the grid on command. It would also be advantageous to provide more sophisticated demand side management tasks using aggregated resources to manage localized constraints on the utility grid e.g. substation feeder line residence etc. .

The remaining barriers to market adoption of distributed power storage and supply devices are convenience. At present there are significant challenges to an individual s or building owner s installation of renewable energy technologies. In typical installations the component parts must be purchased from multiple vendors and integrated in a custom installation. Moreover buying the component parts requires knowledge of the market for and the technical aspects of the different energy technologies the construction required to install the technologies in accord with local codes regulatory requirements and guidelines imposed by homeowner s association and insurance companies. In addition if the power generated in excess of requirements on the premise is to be resold utilities impose additional requirements for connection of such systems to the utility s power grid. Another hindrance to implementing the use of distributed power storage and supply devices is that many local electricians do not yet know how to install the disparate components and frequently make errors in doing so as much of this technology is new or not widely used. As a result of such errors and or lack of know how by the installer the attendant wiring can be unattractive and intimidating to the buyer and lead to concerns and possibly actual issues regarding safety and reliability in addition to aesthetics. Further the typical homeowner or business owner is not qualified or certified and the associated expense too high to provide adequate battery maintenance or battery replacement. This adds cost to the upkeep of any distributed power storage and supply devices.

The embodiment of the SEGIS ES is designed in such a way as to be located outside of a residence or commercial structure and to be of a form factor that coincides with electric and gas utility working space siting requirements of being less than 42 inches in depth when the SEGIS ES enclosure door is open and less than 18 inches in depth when the door is closed. Furthermore in some embodiments the enclosure is no wider than 24 inches. Additionally in some embodiments multiple enclosures being 18 inches deep and 24 inches wide can be mechanically coupled together. The enclosure door when in the open position is made to be removable without the necessity of any tools. A three point padlockable latching mechanism equipped with a security pentahead bolt is additionally provided to restrict non authorized personnel from opening the enclosure. The enclosure door hinges are designed as to be encased by the door shell in such a manner to prevent tampering with the hinges in order to gain entry to the enclosure. The SEGIS ES enclosure provides means of convection and forced cooling via the strategic placement of covered louvered vents on the rear of the enclosure. The vent locations are designed to coincide with the forced air exhaust ports on the inverter converter and charge controller. The inverter converter or hybrid inverter converter has the capability of converting DC to AC and AC to DC . The strategic placement and air tunneling channeling provided by the isolation breaker panel inverter mounting offset from the back of the enclosure and the enclosure inverter converter vertical airflow channels provide additional exothermic cooling of the electronic and energy storage equipment.

The enclosure is epoxy powder coated for corrosion resistance to salt spray and airborne contaminants and chemicals. The SEGIS ES enclosure is intended to be placed on a rigid pedestal via recesses bolting lugs internal to the enclosure bottom the rigid pedestal 2 4 concrete or other material is to be additionally fastened to the premise concrete walkway foundation or other provided rigid footing via one or more adjusting leveling means. The SEGIS ES enclosure is not required to be fastened to the side vertical plane of the residential or commercial structure. The enclosure additionally provides a connection ambidextrous conductor termination point which can be located on either side of the enclosure via watertight escutcheon plates containing electrical conduit access holes to facilitate connection of the photovoltaic power and utility electricity. The SEGIS ES enclosure top is uniquely sloped to prevent the accumulation of water or other liquids thereby extending the enclosure life. The door jamb of the enclosure includes a novel rain gutter and weather stripping system with prevents liquids and dust of entering the enclosure. The unique enclosure rain gutter interface with the weather stripping material is designed such that the contact surface area between the weather strip material and the rain gutter is minimal. The minimal interface surface area between the weather strip and the rain gutter helps to prevent weather strip failure caused by adhesion to the mating surface.

The SEGIS ES includes a separate battery enclosure housed within the SEGIS ES enclosure which utilizes security fastening means to prevent removal of the battery enclosure from non authorized personnel. The metal battery enclosure is designed so that most battery chemistry energy storage means can be accommodated. Energy storage means such as flooded lead acid AGM lead acid Lithium ion chemistries pure proton and nickel cadmium chemistry batteries and storage means can be accommodated and additionally contained in the fire resistant explosion protective energy storage enclosure. The SEGIS ES energy storage enclosure provides means for connecting the battery to the inverter via a solid copper bus bulkhead means which provides an electrically insulated escutcheon means and cover to isolate the high current bus from personnel. The battery enclosure further provides a means to house the battery management intelligent electronics and telemetry equipment while providing a means to isolate battery disconnecting switches and associated conductors. The battery enclosure additionally provides a communications connection bulkhead means providing the battery management system to communicate to the data processing gateway inverter and charge controller. The battery enclosure also provides a means for cross ventilation and convection cooling of the battery via venting grid ports or louvers. The battery enclosure may be removed via a removal dolly tool. The removal dolly tool interacts with louvers integrated into the battery enclosure that allows the removal dolly tool to install or remove the battery enclosure as needed.

The SEGIS ES isolation switch panel board is uniquely designed to provide a common integration point for the inverter utility grid photovoltaic power battery isolation switches and electric overload breaker conductors charge controller and communications data processing gateway as a single subassembly which facilitates ease of assembly while utilizing solid copper bus to reduce space requirements need for flexible insulated conductors. The isolation switch panel board additionally protects and inhibits authorized personnel from contacting electrically energized components.

The SEGIS ES appliance provides a multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device which receives and logs a plurality of telemetry data from the intelligent battery management system intelligent charge controller intelligent inverter converter and Home Are Network HAN appliances and electrical loads and corresponds locally stored control algorithms and remotely received control parameters to the individual or aggregated SEGIS ES devices.

The inverter converter is installed into the SEGIS ES enclosure by means of pre inserted studs and a specially design mounting rail attached to the SEGIS ES enclosure which allows the inverter to be easily assembled or removed as may be required for repairs. The SEGIS ES appliance is designed to allow additional battery modules and or SEGIS ES devices to be connected in series or in parallel.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed towards a system method and device for integrating distributed energy sources energy storage and balance of system components into a single device with systems and control for monitoring measuring and conserving power generated on the premise the resale of power to a utility power generated from distributed energy storage e.g. batteries such as flooded lead acid AGM lead acid Lithium ion chemistries sodium sulfur sodium nickel chloride pure proton nickel metal hydride and nickel cadmium chemistry batteries capacitors and flywheels and distributed energy sources e.g. solar panels or wind or water based systems . Moreover the device is minimally invasive modular and retains power generating capacity which is combined with load management and energy storage to provide energy at or near the point of consumption.

In another embodiment a local data processing gateway device is located inside the cabinet and is configured to monitor and control the processes and measurements conducted by the power storage and supply device in either a local or remote mode configuration and can be aggregated by a third party e.g. independent service operator etc. or utility for purposes of dispatching and controlling distributed power or stored energy. Further the local data processing gateway uses open standard communication methods at the transport application and object levels e.g. Internet GPRS AMI Network Web Services XML Based DNP3 IEC 61850 for a utility aggregator or independent service operator to broadcast to a residence or commercial building site the processes and measurements relating to the control management and conservation of power generated on the premise the resale of power to a utility power generated from energy storage e.g. batteries such as flooded lead acid AGM lead acid Lithium ion chemistries sodium sulfur sodium nickel chloride pure proton nickel metal hydride and nickel cadmium chemistry batteries capacitors and flywheels and distributed energy sources e.g. solar panels or wind or water based systems . For the communications within a residence or commercial site the local data processing gateway can further aggregate monitor and control the processes and measurements associated with devices within the home using open standard communication methods at the transport application and object levels e.g. ZigBee HomePlug Intranet Web Services XML Based SEP MMS and IEC 61850 for user process measurement control and conservation of on premise power generated the resale of power to a utility power generated from energy storage e.g. batteries such as flooded lead acid AGM lead acid Lithium ion chemistries sodium sulfur sodium nickel chloride pure proton nickel metal hydride and nickel cadmium chemistry batteries capacitors and flywheels distributed energy sources e.g. solar panels or wind or water based systems and devices capable of energy management HVAC Thermostats water heaters pool pumps etc. .

In another embodiment a solar integrated energy management apparatus is made of a power storage supply apparatus enclosure a power storage and supply device coupled to an electromechanical isolation breaker that is integrated to one or more alternate energy sources and one or more energy storage modules one or more inverters coupled to a charge controller a charge controller coupled to one or more inverters and to one or more energy storage modules a local data processing gateway coupled to the charge controller and one or more energy storage modules coupled to an energy storage module storage enclosure containing a battery management system and electrical bus that is connected to one or more battery cable terminals to a main bus and in which the main bus is coupled to the charge controller.

In another embodiment an integrated energy management apparatus includes a power storage and supply device coupled to an electromechanical isolation breaker that is integrated to one or more alternate energy sources and one or more energy storage modules and that the electromechanical isolation breaker is capable of communicating with one or more alternate energy sources one or more inverters coupled to a charge controller a charge controller coupled to the one or more inverters and to one or more energy storage modules a local data processing gateway coupled to the charge controller one or more energy storage modules coupled to an energy storage module storage enclosure containing a battery management system and electrical bus where the electrical bus is connected to one or more battery cable terminals to a main bus coupled to the charge controller a consumer web portal an Internet user interface including an application programming interface coupled to a database repository a display and a utility enterprise database application and an energy area network that couples the Internet user interface and utility enterprise database application to one or more user devices and appliances

In another embodiment a solar integrated system enclosure includes an upper section that houses one or more inverters a center section that includes one or more electromechanical isolation breakers a charge controller and a computer implemented local data processing gateway device that includes one or more software modules for implementing method steps to monitor control and store energy from one or more alternate energy sources and to implement one or more processes for providing consumer energy management a lower section that houses one or more storage modules a frame that includes a width a depth and a height to form a single vertical rectangular cross section box of varying widths one or more corrosion resistant outer panels that includes a width a depth and a height that forms a rectangular cross section box of varying widths wherein the panels are coupled to the frame to form a single vertical freestanding outdoor utility grade enclosure which enclosure is open on a front side and coupled to a hinged door an internal upper section center section and lower section backpan for mounting one or more solar integrated system components a compact footprint equal to a depth not to exceed a utility workspace a sloped top panel wherein the rear edge height is greater than the front edge height a door jamb coupled to a top portion and one or more sides of an open front side of said frame the hinged front door including a three point rod and latch system to engage a gasketed internal rectangular circumference and a handle latch on the external of the front door where the hinged front door is coupled to the door jamb one or more hot swappable energy storage modules coupled to a shunt switch for physically isolating the energy storage modules and further coupled to an isolation switches panel assembly via at least one unique safety connector mechanism and an electrical bus connecting the energy storage module terminals to a main bus which connects to the charge controller and the one or more inverters through a unitized system and one or more horizontal perforations on a back panel and located at a minimum distance between exhaust ports on an inverter a converter and a charge controller.

Another embodiment is a system that provides a computer implemented method for monitoring energy including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform a method of storing excess energy generated in an energy management device in an application platform. The system includes one or more processors a clock memory one or more I O interfaces one or more analog to digital interfaces operating system software a power storage supply apparatus enclosure a power storage and supply device coupled to an electromechanical isolation breaker that is integrated to one or more alternate energy sources one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways to implement monitoring of one or more telemetry data one or more charge controllers and one or more energy storage modules. In another embodiment a solar integrated energy management system is made of a power storage supply apparatus enclosure one or more alternative energy sources coupled to a user power system the user power system coupled to a utility power grid to distribute the required consumer power needed and a user power monitoring control management console in which the solar integrated energy management system monitors user power consumption with the user power monitoring control management console and stores excess alternate energy source power created via communication and storing said excess alternate energy source power into one or more energy storage modules.

In another embodiment an energy management system for governing energy management resources includes a power storage supply apparatus enclosure a power storage and supply device one or more alternative energy sources coupled to a user power system the user power system coupled to a utility power grid to distribute the required consumer power needed one or more sets of rules one or more sets of constraints and in which the one or more sets of rules and the one or more sets of constraints allow a user to implement multiple sets of rules and constraints that govern various resources selected from power generation power storage power use and load control.

In another embodiment an Intelligent Energy Storage Module Management System includes a tamper resistant energy storage enclosure housed within an intelligent energy storage module management enclosure with security fastening means in which the tamper resistant energy storage enclosure includes means for connecting one or more energy storage devices to a hybrid inverter converter via a solid copper bus bulkhead apparatus which further includes an electrically insulated escutcheon means and associated cover to isolate a high current bus conductor from service personnel a means to house one or more energy storage module management intelligent electronics and telemetry equipment within the intelligent energy storage module management enclosure while simultaneously isolating one or more energy storage disconnecting switches and associated conductors a communications connection bulkhead means housed within the intelligent energy storage module management enclosure that allows the Intelligent Energy Storage Module Management System to communicate to a data processing gateway hybrid inverter converter and charge controller one or more venting grid ports located on the intelligent energy storage module management enclosure adjacent to one or more energy storage modules in which the one or more venting grid ports cross ventilate and convection cool one or more of the one or more energy storage modules one or more components of the energy storage module management intelligent electronics and telemetry equipment communicably coupled to a multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device to provide telemetry data to implement one or more processes to integrate with an Energy Area Network EAN and the Energy Area Network EAN communicably coupled to one or more appliances and electrical loads to aggregate locally stored control algorithms and remotely received control parameters.

In another embodiment a method for monitoring energy consumption comprises steps for providing one or more hybrid inverter converters wherein the one or more hybrid inverter converters are communicably coupled to one or more charge controllers and wherein the one or more hybrid inverter converters are further electronically coupled to an electrical bus providing one or more data processing gateways wherein the one or more data processing gateways are communicably coupled to one or more charge controllers and to one or more intelligent battery management systems providing one or more charge controllers providing one or more intelligent battery management systems coupled to one or more energy management devices providing one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint associating an energy management device with a consumer unit said energy management device having a local data processing gateway device communicably coupled to the energy management device configuring said local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent battery management systems receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent inverter converters receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from a charge controller and viewing the plurality of telemetry data by accessing a consumer web portal.

In another embodiment a method for selling energy back to a utility power grid comprises steps for providing one or more hybrid inverter converters providing one or more data processing gateways providing one or more charge controllers providing one or more intelligent battery management systems providing one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules calculating the amount of available energy storage capacity based upon the current or expected price of power and implementing the one or more set of rules.

In another embodiment A method for providing wholesale energy services comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy applying the amount of available stored energy to offset a need to purchase and install one or more new electricity generating means using the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation marginal cost wherein said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance using the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation capacity cost wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more rapid response energy storage modules wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more electric supply reserve capacities wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity time of use TOU costs using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high and reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply.

In another embodiment a method for providing renewables integration comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus using a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy making one or more electric energy buy low sell high transactions wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price using the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation marginal cost wherein said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance using the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation capacity cost wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more rapid response energy storage modules wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more electric supply reserve capacities wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity time of use TOU costs using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources and using the amount of available stored energy to firm output from renewable energy generation.

In another embodiment a method for providing stationary storage for transmission and distribution T D support comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus using a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more electric supply reserve capacities wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves using the amount of available stored energy to offset one or more needs to use one or more large generation means of reactive power to the grid wherein the amount of available stored energy provides reactive power to a grid when one or more region wide voltage emergencies occurs using the amount of available stored energy to increase a load carrying capacity of one or more transmission systems using the amount of available stored energy to increase a generation capacity of one or more utilities using the amount of available stored energy to supply an amount of energy upstream from one or more sources of energy congestion and using the amount of available stored energy to defer one or more transmission and distribution costs associated with one or more utilities.

In another embodiment a method for providing distributed energy storage systems comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy applying the amount of available stored energy to offset a need to purchase and install one or more new electricity generating means using the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation marginal cost wherein said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance using the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation capacity cost wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more rapid response energy storage modules wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more electric supply reserve capacities wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity time of use TOU costs using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with oile or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources and using the amount of available stored energy to firm output from renewable energy generation.

In another embodiment a method for providing energy saving companies ESO comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy applying the amount of available stored energy to offset a need to purchase and install one or more new electricity generating means using the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation marginal cost wherein said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance using the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation capacity cost wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more rapid response energy storage modules wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more electric supply reserve capacities wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity time of use TOU costs using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources and using the amount of available stored energy to firm output from renewable energy generation.

In another embodiment a method for providing energy management comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus using a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy making one or more electric energy buy low sell high transactions wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources and using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources.

In another embodiment a method for providing home energy management comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus using a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy making one or more electric energy buy low sell high transactions wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages and using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies.

In another embodiment a method for providing home backup comprising steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus using a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy making one or more electric energy buy low sell high transactions wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages and using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies.

In another embodiment a system for monitoring energy consumption comprises one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint one or more memories for storing data one or more processors capable of executing processor readable code one or more communications means one or more databases one or more query processing modules one or more aggregation engines one or more execution engines one or more reference generating modules one or more user interfaces and one or more algorithm rules.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform a method of monitoring energy consumption comprises steps for interfacing by the computer system with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint associating an energy management device with a consumer unit said energy management device having a local data processing gateway device communicably coupled thereto configuring said local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent battery management systems receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent inverter converters receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from a charge controller and viewing the plurality of telemetry data by accessing a consumer web portal.

In another embodiment a computer implemented apparatus for providing a method for monitoring energy consumption is an apparatus that comprises a processor an input device coupled to said processor a memory coupled to said processor an output device and an execution engine including a method for monitoring energy consumption to perform steps for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint associating an energy management device with a consumer unit said energy management device having a local data processing gateway device communicably coupled thereto configuring said local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent battery management systems receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent inverter converters receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from a charge controller and viewing the plurality of telemetry data by accessing a consumer web portal.

In another embodiment a computer readable medium for monitoring energy consumption comprises program code for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint program code for associating an energy management device with a consumer unit said energy management device having a local data processing gateway device communicably coupled thereto program code for configuring said local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device program code for receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent battery management systems program code for receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent inverter converters program code for receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules program code for receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from a charge controller and program code for viewing the plurality of telemetry data by accessing a consumer web portal.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform a method of storing excess energy generated in an energy management device in an application platform for performing steps for securing one or more energy storage modules in an energy storage module enclosure said energy storage module enclosure coupled to the inside of a Solar Energy Grid Integrated System with Energy Storage SEGIS ES Appliance wherein said Solar Energy Grid Integrated System with Energy Storage comprises one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint connecting said one or more energy storage modules to a SEGIS ES isolation switch panel board wherein said SEGIS ES isolation switch panel board provides a common integration point for components coupled to said SEGIS ES appliance configuring by the computer system a local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device monitoring by the computer system the amount of power generated by one or more distributed energy sources monitoring by the computer system the rate of power generated by the one or more distributed energy sources controlling by the computer system the rate of power stored in said one or more energy storage modules controlling by the computer system the amount of power stored in said one or more energy storage modules monitoring by the computer system the health of one or more energy storage modules and operating by the computer system one or more devices capable of energy management.

In another embodiment a method for selling energy back to a utility power grid comprises steps for providing one or more hybrid inverter converters providing one or more data processing gateways providing one or more charge controllers providing one or more intelligent battery management systems providing one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules calculating the amount of available energy storage capacity based upon the current or expected price of power and implementing the one or more set of rules.

In another embodiment a computer readable medium for selling energy back to a utility power grid comprises program code for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint program code for processing the one or more set of rules on an Intelligent Energy Storage Module Management System program code for managing the one or more set of rules via a multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device communicably coupled to the Energy Storage Module Management System program code for monitoring the one or more set of rules via a multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device communicably coupled to the Energy Storage Module Management System and program code for modifying the one or more set of rules via a multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device communicably coupled to the Energy Storage Module Management System said multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device further communicably coupled to a consumer web portal.

In another embodiment a system for selling energy back to a utility power grid comprises one or more hybrid inverter converters coupled to an energy storage management system and charge controller module via a data processing gateway such that the data processing gateway implements one or more rule sets for selling energy back to a utility power grid to maximize the selling price of said energy one or more data processing gateways receiving signals from the energy storage management system and charge controller and sending instructions via processor readable code to implement one or more algorithms one or more charge controllers electrically coupled to the energy management storage management system to determine requirements for charging and discharging one or more intelligent battery management systems one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint not to exceed 18 in depth one or more memories for storing data one or more processors capable of executing processor readable code one or more communications means one or more databases one or more query processing modules one or more aggregation engines one or more execution engines one or more reference generating modules one or more user interfaces and one or more algorithm rules.

In yet a further embodiment a computer implemented method including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code for causing a computer system to perform a method of selling energy back to a utility power grid by sending instructions to implement steps including interfacing by the computer system with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining by the computer system price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining by the computer system a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating by the computer system said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring by the computer system said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules and implementing by the computer system the one or more set of rules.

In a further embodiment a computer implemented apparatus for selling energy back to a utility power grid is an apparatus that comprises a processor an input device coupled to said processor a memory coupled to said processor an output device and an execution engine including a method for peak shaving to implement steps for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules and implementing the one or more set of rules.

In another embodiment a method of peak shaving comprises providing one or more hybrid inverter converters providing one or more data processing gateways providing one or more charge controllers providing one or more intelligent battery management systems providing one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint connecting an energy management system with one or more integrated alternate energy sources and one or more energy modules storage to a utility grid monitoring energy demand on said utility grid calculating an amount of maximum energy that said energy grid can deliver determining a threshold energy demand on the grid wherein said threshold energy demand begins to stress one or more components of said utility grid identifying one or more time periods when the threshold energy demand is met whereupon identification said energy management system with integrated alternate energy source and energy module storage sends power generated by one or more alternate energy sources to the utility grid and sending energy to the utility grid until said energy demand falls below said threshold energy demand.

In another embodiment a system for peak shaving comprises one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint one or more memories for storing data one or more processors capable of executing processor readable code one or more communications means one or more databases one or more query processing modules one or more aggregation engines one or more execution engines one or more reference generating modules one or more user interfaces and one or more algorithm rules.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform a method of peak shaving comprises interfacing by the computer system with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining by the computer system price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining by the computer system a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating by the computer system said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring by the computer system said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules and implementing by the computer system the one or more sets of rules or algorithms.

In another embodiment a computer implemented apparatus for providing a method for peak shaving comprises a processor an input device coupled to said processor a memory coupled to said processor an output device and an execution engine including steps for implementing a method for peak shaving including interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules and implementing the one or more set of rules.

In another embodiment a computer readable medium for peak shaving comprises program code for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint program code for connecting an energy management system with integrated alternate energy source and energy module storage to a utility grid program code for monitoring energy demand on said utility grid program code for calculating an amount of maximum energy that said energy grid can deliver program code for determining a threshold energy demand on the grid wherein said threshold energy demand begins to stress one or more components of said utility grid program code for identifying one or more time periods when the threshold energy demand is met whereupon identification said energy management system with integrated alternate energy source and energy module storage sends power generated by one or more alternate energy sources to the utility grid and program code for sending energy to the utility grid until said energy demand falls below said threshold energy demand.

The present invention is directed to a device the present invention is directed towards a system method and device for integrating distributed energy sources energy storage and balance of system components into a single device with systems and control for monitoring measuring and conserving power generated on the premise the resale of power to a utility power generated from distributed energy storage e.g. batteries and distributed energy sources e.g. solar panels . Moreover the device is minimally invasive modular and retains power generating capacity which is combined with load management and energy storage to provide energy at or near the point of consumption.

The present invention can be further illustrated as a device that integrates the necessary components into a tamper resistant utility grade minimally invasive enclosure designed for outdoor applications keeping unauthorized personnel from accessing the necessary components and placed within the utility s service easement and set aside area of a residence or commercial building. The energy management cabinet contains essentially all necessary electrical components including charge controllers inverters relay circuitry circuit breakers energy storage modules e.g. batteries and balance of system circuitry for operating distributed energy sources e.g. solar panels .

The present invention is described below with reference to block diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams respectively can be implemented by means of analog or digital hardware and computer instructions. These computer instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer ASIC or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the block or blocks.

The computer program instruction can be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer ASIC or other programmable data processing apparatus such that the instruction which execute via the process of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implements the function acts specified in the block diagrams or operational block or blocks.

In some alternate implementation the functions acts noted in the blocks can occur out of the order noted in the operational illustration. For example tow blocks shown in succession can in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks can sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

For the purpose of this disclosure the term utility should be referred to as an entity that provides or manages the supply of electrical power to one or more energy consumers. The term as used in the disclosure encompasses without limitation regional utility companies regional transmission organizations and any other load servicing entity or entities which manage the power grid within a geographical area. Energy consumers may be an entity that uses electrical power for any purpose such as without limitation individual homeowners commercial office buildings or manufacturing operations.

For the purpose of this disclosure the term energy management system with integrated solar and energy storage EMSIS ES should be understood to refer to a device which measures and controls the operation of power generating power consuming or power storage devices or which measures and controls power supplied to one or more electrical circuits. Power generating devices may include without limitation renewable energy resources such as solar panels household appliances such as refrigerators and stoves climate control systems such as heating and air conditioning and commercial or manufacturing devices such as an automated assembly line. Power storage devices may include without limitation battery systems and capacitors which store and dispatch power.

The EMSIS ES may be capable of being connected to one or more networks such as the Internet a private WAN AMI Network GPRS or a cellular communications network. Such network connected EMSIS ES may be capable of transmitting measurements made by the EMSIS ES to remote locations e.g. utility s . Network connected EMSIS ES devices may be further capable of receiving commands from remote locations which control or modify the operation of the EMSIS ES.

For the purpose of this disclosure and without limitation the term power storage and supply device should be understood to refer to an EMSIS ES which is capable of managing substantially all electrical power generation consumption and storage by power generating power consuming and power storage devices within an area of control or individual site. The EMSIS ES may include a processor with associated communications data storage and database facilities one or more display device which may support a graphical user interface as well as operating software and one or more database systems and applications software which support the services provided by the appliance. Area control of an EMSIS ES may be without limitation a single home or a group of homes commercial building or group of commercial buildings.

For the purpose of this disclosure and without limitation module is a software hardware or firmware or combination thereof system process or functionality or component thereof that performs or facilitates the processes feature and or functions described herein the EMSIS ES with or without human interaction or augmentation . A module can include sub modules.

For the purpose of this disclosure and without limitation utility grade enclosure is designated as a cabinet hardware or component thereof which performs or facilitates the feature and or functions described herein the EMSIS ES with or without human interaction or augmentation meeting NEMA 3R IEEE C57.12.52 Section 6 C57.28 Section 4 made from a minimum of 12 gauge steel or a suitable composite material.

For the purpose of this disclosure and without limitation certifications are software hardware or firmware or combination thereof system process or functionality or component thereof that performs or facilitates the processes features and or functions described herein the EMSIS ES with or without human interaction or augmentation meeting UL 1742 2005 IEEE 1547 ETL Listed UL 1741 CSA C22.2 No. 107.1 FCC Class B FCC Part 15 Class B ANSI C37.90 CANBUS DNP3 NIST approved SE2 complaint. It is to be understood by one of ordinary skill that this is an exemplary list of standards that is current at the time of filing this application.

Reference will now be made in detail to illustrative embodiment of the present invention examples of which are may be shown in the accompanying drawings. These inventions may be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limitations to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that the disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

In an embodiment as shown in and a solar integrated energy management apparatus may include a power storage supply apparatus enclosure . A power storage and supply device is coupled to one or more electromechanical isolation breakers . The one or more electromechanical isolation breakers and one or more energy storage modules are adapted to connect to one or more alternate energy sources . One or more inverters are coupled to a charge controller . The charge controller is coupled to the one or more inverters and to the one or more energy storage modules . A local data processing gateway is coupled to the charge controller . The one or more energy storage modules are coupled to an energy storage module storage enclosure containing a battery management system and an electrical bus . The electrical bus connects one or more battery cable terminals to a main bus that is coupled to the charge controller . Further the local data processing gateway uses open standard communication methods at the transport application and object levels e.g. Internet GPRS AMI Network Web Services XML Based DNP3 IEC 61850 . As shown in solar integrated energy management apparatus is generally divided into a upper section center section and an lower section however is unitized by a singular circuitry design and interface.

Further the lower section of the solar integrated energy management apparatus contains the energy storage modules and a tamper proof separate battery storage enclosure that contains the battery management system and electrical bus connecting the battery cable terminals to a main bus which connects to the charge controller in the middle section and the inverters located in the upper section through a unitized assembly. The battery enclosure is connected to the balance of system located in the middle section via at least one connector for providing a unique safety connector configuration for the energy storage modules .

In other aspects the embodiment of the solar integrated energy management apparatus may further include at least one unique safety connector providing a unique safety connector configuration. At least one unique safety connector allows the charge controller the local data processing gateway and the electromechanical isolation breaker to be connected to the energy storage module . The energy storage module is coupled to at least one unique safety connector via the main bus .

In another embodiment as shown in and an integrated energy management apparatus may include a power storage and supply device coupled to an electromechanical isolation breaker . The electromechanical isolation breaker is integrated to one or more alternate energy sources and one or more energy storage modules . The electromechanical isolation breaker may communicate with one or more alternate energy sources . One or more inverters are coupled to a charge controller . The charge controller is coupled to the one or more inverters and to one or more energy storage modules . A local data processing gateway is coupled to the charge controller . The one or more energy storage modules are coupled to an energy storage module storage enclosure containing a battery management system and a electrical bus . The electrical bus connects one or more battery cable terminals to a main bus that is coupled to the charge controller . The integrated energy management apparatus may include a consumer web portal an internet user interface including an application programming interface coupled to a database repository a display and a utility enterprise database application and an energy area network that couples the Internet user interface and utility enterprise database application to one or more user devices and appliances . The internet user interface may be a personal computer a smart phone or other smart devices capable of internet access.

In other aspects of the integrated energy management apparatus the embodiment may further include one or more CANBUS protocols to allow one or more components to communicate with each other without one or more host computers one or more DNP3 platforms to facilitate communication between the one or more data processing gateways and one or more components at least one NIST approved CIM model and at least one SE2 compliant platform.

In another embodiment as shown in a solar integrated system enclosure may include an upper section housing one or more inverters a center section housing one or more electromechanical isolation breakers a charge controller and a computer implemented local data processing gateway device that includes one or more software modules for implementing method steps to monitor control and store energy from one or more alternate energy sources and to implement one or more processes for providing consumer energy management and a lower section housing one or more storage modules . The frame of the enclosure comprises a width a depth and a height to form a single vertical rectangular cross section box of equal or varying widths. One or more corrosion resistant outer panels comprising a height a width and a depth form a rectangular cross section box of varying widths. The panels are coupled to the frame to form a single vertical freestanding outdoor utility grade enclosure . The enclosure is open on a front side and coupled to a hinged door . The enclosure may include an internal upper section center section and lower section backpan for mounting one or more solar integrated system components. Preferably the enclosure has a compact footprint equal to a depth not to exceed a utility workspace. Preferably the enclosure has a sloped top panel wherein the rear edge height is greater than the front edge height. A door jamb is coupled to a top portion and one or more sides of an open front side of the frame . The hinged front door includes a three point rod and latch system to engage a gasketed internal rectangular circumference not shown and a handle latch on the external of the front door not shown . The hinged front door is coupled to the door jamb . One or more hot swappable energy storage modules are coupled to a shunt switch for physically isolating the energy storage modules and are further coupled to an isolation switches panel assembly via at least one unique safety connector mechanism and an electrical bus not shown connecting the energy storage module terminals not shown to a main bus not shown that connects to the charge controller and the one or more inverters through a unitized system not shown . One or more horizontal perforations on a back panel are located at a minimum distance between exhaust ports on the inverter a converter not shown and the charge controller . The shunt switch may be provided for physically isolating via disconnection the energy storage modules from the charge controller data processing gateway and inverter . This configuration allows for physical and electric isolation of the energy storage modules by switching the modules off effectively unplugging that specific modules from the system. This functionality allows for safe maintenance and upkeep of the energy storage modules . This also lets the data processing gateway avoid damage to the entire system by isolating a non properly functioning energy storage module until such module can be repaired or replaced by the appropriate maintenance worker.

In an embodiment of the present invention the a solar integrated system enclosure is a utility grade NEMA 3R Stainless Steel enclosure measuring 72 H 24 W 14 D. However one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other casing materials may be used such as Aluminum Composite Steel or other Composite Materials and cabinet dimensions may be utilized in order to accommodate different operating environments and or different space constraints.

In other aspects of the embodiment the utility workspace recited in the preceding paragraph may be no greater than 18 inches in depth. Further the utility workspace recited in the preceding paragraph may be no greater than 18 inches in depth and 24 inches in width.

In other aspects of the embodiment one of more of the solar integrated system enclosure may be in series in parallel and may be mechanically coupled together. Combined the systems of the enclosures may produce between 6 kW and 1 MW.

In other aspects of the embodiment the solar integrated system enclosure may be a rainproof NEMA 3R enclosure. The embodiment may further include one or more door hinges coupled to the hinged door wherein the one or more door hinges are encased by a front portion and side portion of the hinged door such that the one or more hinges are not visible when looking from front or sides. Encasing the one or more hinges by the front portion and side portion of the door prevents unwanted tampering. An isolation breaker panel may be coupled to the center section of the solar integrated system enclosure . The isolation breaker panel may further have isolation circuitry not shown coupled thereto whereby placement of the isolation circuitry on the isolation switch panel assembly provides vertical airflow channels that provide additional exothermic cooling of components coupled to the center section . One or more ambidextrous conductor termination points not shown may be located on one or more corrosion resistant outer panels that form the width of the rectangular cross section box. The one or more ambidextrous conductor termination points may be formed via watertight escutcheon plates coupled to the one or more corrosion resistant outer panels. The watertight escutcheon plates may contain electrical conduit access holes to facilitate connection of the alternate energy source power and utility power grid.

In other aspects of the embodiment the solar integrated system enclosure may further include a rain gutter with a curved radius that extends around the perimeter of an open front side of the enclosure. The rain gutter may include a top and bottom rain gutter and a first and second side rain gutter .

The top and bottom rain gutters may extend outward a first distance from the frame . The first distance may be a curved radius portion sloping away from a vertical line that dissects an interior cavity of the enclosure and being equal to one third of a total distance with the one third of a total distance encompassing a portion of the total distance farthest from the frame and wherein a door jamb extends a second distance outward from the frame with the second distance being a planar portion equal to two thirds of a total distance extending outward from the frame and the two thirds of a total distance encompassing a portion of the total distance closest to the frame .

The first and second rain gutter may extend outward a first distance from the frame . The first distance may be a curved radius portion sloping away from a horizontal line that dissects an interior cavity of the enclosure and being equal to one third of a total distance with the one third of a total distance encompassing a portion of the total distance farthest from the frame and wherein a door jamb extends a second distance outward from the frame with the second distance being a planar portion equal to two thirds of a total distance extending outward from the frame and the two thirds of a total distance encompassing a portion of the total distance closest to the frame . There may be one or more gaskets not shown coupled to an inner circumference of the hinged door . When the hinged door is closed the one or more gaskets abut with the rain gutter to form an interface wherein the interface comprises the one or more gaskets being compressed on an end portion closest to an end portion of the rain gutter such that the one or more gaskets form a seal by form fitting around the end portion wherein the interface between the one or more gaskets and the end portion prevent liquids and dust from entering the enclosure and wherein the placement of the one or more gaskets minimizes the contact surface area between the one or more gaskets and the rain gutter .

In another embodiment as shown in a system to provide a computer implemented method for monitoring energy including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform a method of storing excess energy generated in an energy management device in an application platform may include one or more processors a clock memory one or more I O interfaces one or more analog to digital interfaces operating system software a power storage supply apparatus enclosure a power storage and supply device coupled to an electromechanical isolation breaker that is integrated to one or more alternate energy sources one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways to implement monitoring of one or more telemetry data one or more charge controllers and one or more energy storage modules .

In another embodiment as shown in a solar energy management system comprises a power storage supply apparatus enclosure and one or more alternative energy sources coupled to a user power system . The user power system may be coupled to a utility power grid to distribute the required consumer power need. The solar integrated energy management system may monitor user power consumption with a user power monitoring control management console and store excess alternate energy source power created via communication and storing the excess alternate energy source power into one or more energy storage modules .

In another aspect of the embodiment the excess alternate energy source power may be the difference between power provided by the alternate energy source power and a consumer s power needs.

In yet other aspects of the embodiment the solar integrated energy management system may further include a consumer web portal an internet user interface including an application programming interface an advanced meter infrastructure AMI coupled to the internet user interface and a utility power grid an energy area network EAN coupled to the local data processing gateway and a utility enterprise database application.

In another embodiment as shown in an energy management system for governing energy management resources comprises a power storage supply apparatus enclosure a power storage and supply device one or more alternate energy sources coupled to a user power system the user power system coupled to a utility power grid to distribute the required consumer power needed one or more sets of rules one or more sets of constraints and wherein the one or more sets of rules and the one or more sets of constraints allow a user to implement multiple sets of rules and constraints that govern various resources selected from the group consisting of power generation power storage power use and load control. In other aspects of the embodiment the one or more sets of rules and the one or more sets of constraints may allow a user to implement one or more sets of rules and constraints that dictate that if price of power from a utility power grid reaches one or more price points then a pre defined percentage of a maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules may be discharged in a single cycle. The pre defined percentage of a maximum capacity may correspond to the one or more price points.

In another embodiment as shown in an Intelligent Energy Storage Module Management System comprises a tamper resistant energy storage enclosure housed within an intelligent energy storage module management enclosure with security fastening members not shown . The tamper resistant energy storage enclosure includes connectors not shown for connecting one or more energy storage devices to a hybrid inverter converter via a solid copper bus bulkhead apparatus which further includes an electrically insulated escutcheon and associated cover to isolate a high current bus conductor from service personnel. An enclosure for one or more energy storage module management intelligent electronics and telemetry equipment within the intelligent energy storage module management enclosure simultaneously isolates one or more energy storage disconnecting switches and associated conductors not shown . A communications connection bulkhead housed within the intelligent energy storage module management enclosure allows the Intelligent Energy Storage Module Management System to communicate to a multi protocol data processing communication gateway device hybrid inverter converter and charge controller . One or more venting grid ports may be placed on the intelligent energy storage module management enclosure adjacent to one or more energy storage modules where the one or more venting grid ports cross ventilate and convection cool one or more of the one or more energy storage modules . One or more components of the energy storage module management intelligent electronics and telemetry equipment are communicably coupled to the multi protocol data processing communication gateway device to provide telemetry data to implement one or more processes to integrate with an Energy Area Network EAN . The Energy Area Network EAN may be communicably coupled to one or more appliances and electrical loads to aggregate locally stored control algorithms and remotely received control parameters.

In other aspects of the embodiment the Intelligent Energy Storage Module Management System may further include one or more CANBUS protocols to allow one or more components to communicate with each other without one or more host computers one or more DNP3 platforms to facilitate communication between the one or more data processing gateways and one or more components at least one NIST approved CIM model and at least one SE2 compliant platform. The Energy Storage Module Management System may be designed to prevent access by unauthorized personnel. In yet other aspects of the embodiment the Energy Area Network EAN may be a Home Area Network HAN comprising residential appliances and electrical loads . The one or more components of the energy storage module management intelligent electronics and telemetry equipment communicably coupled to the multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device may further integrate the intelligent charge controller and the intelligent inverter converter to the Energy Area Network EAN . The tamper resistant energy storage enclosure may house one or more energy storage components of the energy storage module management intelligent electronics and telemetry equipment . The one or more energy storage modules may be electrically connected in series. The one or more energy storage devices each may contain at least one energy storage module wherein one or more modules are connected to the tamper resistant energy storage enclosure and wherein the one or more modules comprise a string not shown .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for monitoring energy consumption comprises steps for providing one or more hybrid inverter converters wherein the one or more hybrid inverter converters are communicably coupled to one or more charge controllers and wherein the one or more hybrid inverter converters are further electronically coupled to an electrical bus providing one or more data processing gateways wherein the one or more data processing gateways are communicably coupled to one or more charge controllers and to one or more intelligent battery management systems providing one or more charge controllers providing one or more intelligent battery management systems coupled to one or more energy management devices providing one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint not to exceed 18 inches in depth associating an energy management device with a consumer unit said energy management device having a local data processing gateway device communicably coupled to the energy management device configuring said local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent battery management systems receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent inverter converters receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from a charge controller and viewing the plurality of telemetry data by accessing a consumer web portal .

In other aspects of a method for monitoring energy consumption the embodiment further comprises steps for retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and conducting one or more electric energy buy low sell high transaction wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price . In other aspects the embodiment may variously further comprise steps for retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and applying the amount of available stored energy to offset a need to purchase and install one or more new electricity generating means . In other aspects the embodiment may further comprise steps for retrieving the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy utilizing the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation marginal cost where said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance and applying the amount of available stored energy to reduce generation capacity cost wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity . In yet other aspects of the embodiment the method may variously include steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more rapid response energy storage modules and wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging . In other configurations of the method embodiment steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and itsing the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more electric supply reserve capacities wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves may be further provided. In another configuration the embodiment may variously further include steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and using the amount of available stored energy to offset one or more needs to use one or more large generation means of reactive power to the grid wherein the amount of available stored energy provides reactive power to a grid when one or more region wide voltage emergencies occurs . In other configurations of the method embodiment steps for monitoring energy consumption may be directed to transmission systems including using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and using the amount of available stored energy to increase a load carrying capacity of one or more transmission systems . Other applications of the method embodiment may further comprise steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy using the amount of available stored energy to increase a generation capacity of one or more utilities and using the amount of available stored energy to supply an amount of energy upstream from one or more sources of energy congestion . In other aspects the embodiment may variously include steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and using the amount of available stored energy to defer one or more transmission and distribution costs associated with one or more utilities . In yet another aspect of the embodiment electricity time of use TOU costs and real time price RTP energy costs may be analyzed by providing steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity time of use TOU costs and using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs . Another configuration of the method embodiment further includes steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy using the amount of available stored energy to reduce one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high and reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply . In yet another aspect of the embodiment the method further includes steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages . In other certain aspects the method may further include steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies . In another aspect of the embodiment the method further includes steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources and using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources . In another configuration of the embodiment the method may further include steps for using the plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules to calculate an amount of available stored energy and using the amount of available stored energy to firm output from renewable energy generation .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for providing wholesale energy services comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus for mounting in a compact workspace not to exceed eighteen inches in depth retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices in a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network applying the amount of available stored energy to one or more utility grids reducing generation marginal cost by associating the amount of available stored energy with corresponding telemetry data wherein said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance reducing generation capacity cost by associating the amount of available stored energy with corresponding telemetry data wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity providing one or more rapid response energy storage modules by associating the amount of available stored energy wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging providing one or more electric supply reserve capacities by associating the amount of available stored energy wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves reducing one or more users electricity time of use TOU energy costs by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules reducing one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules minimizing one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules and reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for providing renewables integration comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus for mounting in a compact workspace not to exceed eighteen inches in depth retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices in a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network making one or more electric energy buy low sell high transactions wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price reducing generation marginal cost by associating the amount of available stored energy with corresponding telemetry data wherein said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance reducing generation capacity cost by associating the amount of available stored energy with corresponding telemetry data wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity providing one or more rapid response energy storage modules by associating the amount of available stored energy wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging providing one or more electric supply reserve capacities by associating the amount of available stored energy wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric i reserves reducing one or more users electricity time of use TOU energy costs by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules reducing one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules minimizing one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources and using the amount of available stored energy to firm output from renewable energy generation .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for providing stationary storage for transmission and distribution T D support comprises steps 1 or providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus for mounting in a compact workspace not to exceed eighteen inches in depth retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices in a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network using the amount of available stored energy to provide one or more electric supply reserve capacities wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves using the amount of available stored energy to offset one or more needs to use one or more large generation means of reactive power to the grid wherein the amount of available stored energy provides reactive power to a grid when one or more region wide voltage emergencies occurs using the amount of available stored energy to increase a load carrying capacity of one or more transmission systems using the amount of available stored energy to increase a generation capacity of one or more utilities using the amount of available stored energy to supply an amount of energy upstream from one or more sources of energy congestion and using the amount of available stored energy to defer one or more transmission and distribution costs associated with one or more utilities .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for providing distributed energy storage systems comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus for mounting in a compact workspace not to exceed eighteen inches in depth retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices in a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network applying the amount of available stored energy to one or more utility grids reducing generation marginal cost by associating the amount of available stored energy with corresponding telemetry data wherein said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance reducing generation capacity cost by associating the amount of available stored energy with corresponding telemetry data wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity providing one or more rapid response energy storage modules by associating the amount of available stored energy wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging providing one or more electric supply reserve capacities by associating the amount of available stored energy wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one or more other electric reserves reducing one or more users electricity time of use TOU energy costs by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules reducing one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules minimizing one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources and using the amount of available stored energy to firm output from renewable energy generation .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for providing distributed energy storage systems comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus for mounting in a compact workspace not to exceed eighteen inches in depth retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices in a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network applying the amount of available stored energy to one or more utility grids reducing generation marginal cost by associating the amount of available stored energy with corresponding telemetry data wherein said generation marginal cost comprises a cost of fuel and a cost for variable maintenance reducing generation capacity cost by associating the amount of available stored energy with corresponding telemetry data wherein said generation capacity cost comprises one or more costs incurred in increasing generation capacity providing one or more rapid response energy storage modules by associating the amount of available stored energy wherein the rapid response energy storage modules can provide regulation of the amount of available stored energy while charging and while discharging providing one or more electric supply reserve capacities by associating the amount of available stored energy wherein the one or more electric supply reserve capacities reduce the need and cost for one of more other electric reserves reducing one or more users electricity time of use TOU energy costs by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules reducing one or more users electricity real time price RTP energy costs by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules minimizing one or more end users power draw on one or more utilities during times when electricity use is high by associating the amount of available stored energy with one or more energy storage modules reducing one or more demand charges from one or more utilities by storing energy in one or more energy storage modules at one or more times when low or no demand charges apply using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources and using the amount of available stored energy to firm output from renewable energy generation .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for providing power quality and reliability comprises providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices iri a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources and using the amount of available stored energy to firm output from renewable energy generation .

The photovoltaic cells may be an array manufactured by exemplary manufactures such as BP Solar a subsidiary of British Petroleum p.l.c. Kyocera Corp. Shell Transport and Trading Company p.l.c. or SolarWorld USA and operating normally at 90 VDC with a maximum output capacity at 2.5 kWp. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other multi voltages output capacities and photovoltaic array sizes are contemplated. Other photovoltaic cells produced by other manufacturers and operating at various currents voltages and power output capacities may also be used as alternate energy sources. Suitable forms of photovoltaic cells as well as other alternate energy sources e.g. wind or water based systems may also be used. The power storage and supply device also includes energy storage modules such as batteries fuel cells or any other suitable type of independent energy storage medium as appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Further the power storage and supply device includes a charge controller one or more energy storage modules one or more inverters a electromechanical isolation breaker a local data processing gateway with data logging capabilities a home area network HAN is Internet compatible contains a web portal and optionally communicates through an advanced meter infrastructure AMI all of which are preferably connected to or contained therein with a single enclosed cabinet such as the one discussed in more detail below. Furthermore an Independent service operator and or Utility Enterprise System may communicate with the energy storage and supply device via the internet user interface . In an embodiment of the present invention each array of photovoltaic cells acting as the alternate energy source has a dedicated charge controller though it is recognized that the charge controllers can be configured in a number of ways appreciable by one of ordinary skill in the art. The charge controller routes the electricity generated by the alternate energy source to one or any number size of the energy storage modules and the inverters . Alternatively the charge controller may be controlled by another device such as the local data processing gateway which makes this determination. In an embodiment of the present invention the inverter is a grid tied hybrid PV Schneider Electric XW4548 12 240 60 the charge controller is Schneider Electric charge controller XW MPPT60 150 but other suitable charge controllers and inverters may also be used.

Each energy storage model preferably contain a number of batteries which in turn each contain a number of cells for storing the DC voltage being generated by the alternate energy sources and power from the utility power grid . In an embodiment of the present invention each energy storage module includes one or more modules and make up what is referred to as a string. However one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate various amounts of cells may be included in a module various amounts of modules may be included in a string and other allocations and configurations of energy storage devices may be utilized in accordance with the present invention. The batteries may be nickel metal hydride NiMh nickel cadmium NiCd lithium Li lead pure proton or any other suitable type of battery appreciable by one of ordinary skill in the art. However other forms of energy storage other than batteries such as capacitors and flywheels may also be used as energy storage modules .

The inverters separate the DC output voltage into time varying segments to produce an AC alternating current power signal such as a 120 240 split phase load current which is typically the current supplied to a house. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention one inverter is used hybrid PV Schneider Electric XW4548 12 240 60 but other suitable inverters can also be used.

The electromechanical isolation breaker preferably includes one or more automated switches for dynamically directing the AC power signal from the inverters to a desired load. For example in the embodiment the power storage and supply device may be configured to send and receive power from the alternate energy sources or to from the utility power grid only.

The local data processing gateway monitors and controls most of the processes conducted by the power storage and supply device . The local data processing gateway is a computer implemented device that may include for example one or more processors a clock memory I O interfaces analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and operating system software. In addition the local data processing gateway includes a number of software modules for implementing the functionality discussed below with reference to . The local data processing gateway can be configured to monitor and control the processes and measurements conducted by the power storage and supply device in either a local or remote mode configuration and can be aggregated by a third party e.g. independent service operator etc. or utility for purposes of dispatching and controlling distributed power or stored energy.

For the communications within a residence or commercial site the local data processing gateway can further aggregate monitor and control the processes and measurements via the home area network associated with devices within the home using open standard communication methods at the transport transport application and object levels e.g. ZigBee HomePlug Intranet Web Services XML Based SEP MMS and IEC 61850 for user process measurement control and conservation of on premise power generated the resale of power to a utility via the utility power grid or advanced meter infrastructure power generated from energy storage modules alternate energy sources and devices capable of energy management HVAC Thermostats water heaters pool pumps etc. via the home are network or consumer web portal . Further the local data processing gateway uses open standard communication methods at the transport application and object levels e.g. Internet GPRS AMI Network Web Services XML Based DNP3 IEC 61850 for a utility aggregator or independent service operator to broadcast to a residence or commercial building site the processes and measurements relating to the control management and conservation of power generated on the premise the resale of power to a utility power generated from the energy storage modules and alternate energy sources .

The data collected by the utility console may be used to provide customers with on demand information regarding the consumer s energy usage. Via the EMSIS ES consumer web portal utilities may enable individual customer to monitor electrical consumption alternate energy sources and power storage devices their estimated savings and associated environmental impact. Access to the website can be limited to customer having power storage and supply devices. Statistics can be compiled and presented using a web accessible local data processing gateway controller and Internet to the consumer or utility visa a versus.

For example a homeowner who wants to ensure that his or her batteries are fully charged before offering any excess capacity to the grid can select a mode via the consumer web portal that prevents diversion by a utility until such charging has been completed. The consumer web portal may reflect this fact by not showing capacity for such units until a future time for example an estimated time after which the batteries would be fully charged. If the consumer changes a mode setting that potential capacity can be promptly reflected back to the utility enterprise system . A homeowner may also prevent the utility from reducing the thermostat beyond a certain point if a certain mode on the consumer web portal has been selected.

In another embodiment as shown in a method for providing energy management comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices in a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network making one or more electric energy buy low sell high transactions wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources and using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for providing home energy management comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices in a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network making one or more electric energy buy low sell high transactions wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price increasing the amount of available stored energy via one or more renewable energy sources using an amount of available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources at a later time when the cost of energy sold by one or more utilities is more expensive than the cost of said available stored energy provided by one or more renewable energy sources using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages and using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies .

In another embodiment as illustrated in a method for providing home backup comprises steps for providing one or more solar integrated energy management apparatus retrieving telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules physically coupled to one or more inverter converters and one or more data processing gateway devices in a single assembly to calculate an amount of available stored energy in an energy area network making one or more electric energy buy low sell high transactions wherein energy from a utility is purchased at a low price and stored in said one or more energy storage modules and wherein the available stored energy is sold back to the utility at a price higher than the low price using the amount of available stored energy to improve electric service reliability associated with one or more power outages such that one or more end users have reduced losses associated with the one or more power outages and using the amount of available stored energy to reduce financial losses associated with one or more power anomalies .

In another embodiment as shown in a system for monitoring energy consumption comprises one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint one or more memories for storing data one or more processors capable of executing processor readable code one or more communications means one or more databases one or more query processing modules one or more aggregation engines one or more execution engines one or more reference generating modules one or more user interfaces and one or more algorithm rules .

In another embodiment as shown in a computer implemented method including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform a method of monitoring energy consumption comprises steps for interfacing by the computer system with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint associating an energy management device with a consumer unit said energy management device having a local data processing gateway device communicably coupled thereto configuring said local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent battery management systems receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent inverter converters receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from a charge controller and viewing the plurality of telemetry data by accessing a consumer web portal .

In another embodiment as shown in a computer implemented apparatus for providing a method for monitoring energy consumption is an apparatus that comprises a processor an input device coupled to said processor a memory coupled to said processor an output device and an execution engine including a method for monitoring energy consumption to perform steps for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint associating an energy management device with a consumer unit said energy management device having a local data processing gateway device communicably coupled thereto configuring said local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent battery management systems receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent inverter converters receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from a charge controller and viewing the plurality of telemetry data by accessing a consumer web portal .

In another embodiment as shown in a computer readable medium for monitoring energy consumption comprises program code for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint program code for associating an energy management device with a consumer unit said energy management device having a local data processing gateway device communicably coupled thereto program code for configuring said local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device program code for receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent battery management systems program code for receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more intelligent inverter converters program code for receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from one or more energy storage modules program code for receiving and logging a plurality of telemetry data from a charge controller and program code for viewing the plurality of telemetry data by accessing a consumer web portal .

In another embodiment as shown in a computer implemented method including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform a method of storing excess energy generated in an energy management device in an application platform for performing steps for securing one or more energy storage modules in an energy storage module enclosure said energy storage module enclosure coupled to the inside of a Solar Energy Grid Integrated System with Energy Storage SEGIS ES Appliance wherein said Solar Energy Grid Integrated System with Energy Storage comprises one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint connecting said one or more energy storage modules to a SEGIS ES isolation switch panel board wherein said SEGIS ES isolation switch panel board provides a common integration point for components coupled to said SEGIS ES appliance configuring by the computer system a local data processing gateway to monitor and control processes and measurements conducted by said energy management device monitoring by the computer system the amount of power generated by one or more distributed energy sources monitoring by the computer system the rate of power generated by the one or more distributed energy sources controlling by the computer system the rate of power stored in said one or more energy storage modules controlling by the computer system the amount of power stored in said one or more energy storage modules monitoring by the computer system the health of one or more energy storage modules and operating by the computer system one or more devices capable of energy management .

In another embodiment as shown in a method for selling energy back to a utility power grid comprises steps for providing one or more hybrid inverter converters providing one or more data processing gateways providing one or more charge controllers providing one or more intelligent battery management systems providing one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules calculating the amount of available energy storage capacity based upon the current or expected price of power and implementing the one or more set of rules .

In another embodiment as shown in a computer readable medium for selling energy back to a utility power grid comprises program code for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint program code for processing the one or more set of rules on an Intelligent Energy Storage Module Management System program code for managing the one or more set of rules via a multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device communicably coupled to the Energy Storage Module Management System program code for monitoring the one or more set of rules via a multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device communicably coupled to the Energy Storage Module Management System and program code for modifying the one or more set of rules via a multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device communicably coupled to the Energy Storage Module Management System said multiprotocol data processing communication gateway device further communicably coupled to a consumer web portal .

In another embodiment a shown in a system for selling energy back to a utility power grid comprises one or more hybrid inverter converters coupled to an energy storage management system and charge controller module via a data processing gateway such that the data processing gateway implements one or more rule sets for selling energy back to a utility power grid to maximize the selling price of said energy one or more data processing gateways receiving signals from the energy storage management system and charge controller and sending instructions via processor readable code to implement one or more algorithms one or more charge controllers electrically coupled to the energy management storage management system to determine requirements for charging and discharging one or more intelligent battery management systems one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint not to exceed 18 in depth one or more memories for storing data one or more processors capable of executing processor readable code one or more communications means to send and receive instructions from the data processing gateway one or more hybrid inverter converters charge controllers energy storage management system and intelligent battery management system one or more operating system software systems and related databases one or more query processing modules one or more aggregation engines one or more execution engines one or more reference generating modules one or more user interfaces and one or more algorithm rules .

In yet a further embodiment as shown in a computer implemented method including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code for causing a computer system to perform a method of selling energy back to a utility power grid by sending instructions to implement steps including interfacing by the computer system with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining by the computer system price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining by the computer system a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating by the computer system said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring by the computer system said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules and implementing by the computer system the one or more set of rules .

In a further embodiment as shown in a computer implemented apparatus for selling energy back to a utility power grid is an apparatus that comprises a processor an input device coupled to said processor a memory coupled to said processor an output device and an execution engine including a method for peak shaving to implement steps for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules and implementing the one or more set of rules .

In another embodiment as shown in a method of peak shaving comprises providing one or more hybrid inverter converters providing one or more data processing gateways providing one or more charge controllers providing one or more intelligent battery management systems providing one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint connecting an energy management system with one or more integrated alternate energy sources and one or more energy modules storage to a utility grid monitoring energy demand on said utility grid calculating an amount of maximum energy that said energy grid can deliver determining a threshold energy demand on the grid wherein said threshold energy demand begins to stress onb or more components of said utility grid identifying one or more time periods when the threshold energy demand is met whereupon identification said energy management system with integrated alternate energy source and energy module storage sends power generated by one or more alternate energy sources to the utility grid and sending energy to the utility grid until said energy demand falls below said threshold energy demand .

In another embodiment as shown in a system for peak shaving comprises one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint not to exceed eighteen inches one or more memories for storing data one or more processors capable of executing processor readable code one or more communications means one or more databases one or more query processing modules one or more aggregation engines one or more execution engines one or more reference generating modules one or more user interfaces and one or more algorithm rules .

In another embodiment as illustrated in a computer implemented method including computer usable readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform a method of peak shaving comprises interfacing by the computer system with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining by the computer system price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining by the computer system a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating by the computer system said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring by the computer system said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules and implementing by the computer system the one or more sets of rules or algorithms .

In another embodiment as shown in and a computer implemented apparatus for providing a method for peak shaving comprises a processor an input device coupled to said processor a memory coupled to said processor an output device and an execution engine including steps for implementing a method for peak shaving including interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint defining price points of power obtained from a utility power grid at which a user will discharge energy stored in an energy storage module defining a percentage of maximum capacity of stored energy in one or more energy storage modules that may be discharged in a single cycle correlating said price points of power with said percentage of maximum capacity configuring said price points and said percentage of maximum capacity into one or more sets of rules and implementing the one or more set of rules .

In another embodiment as shown in a computer readable medium for peak shaving comprises program code for interfacing with one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage the one or more Solar Energy Grid Integrated Systems with Energy Storage comprising one or more hybrid inverter converters one or more data processing gateways one or more charge controllers one or more intelligent battery management systems and one or more energy management devices in a compact footprint program code for connecting an energy management system with integrated alternate energy source and energy module storage to a utility grid program code for monitoring energy demand on said utility grid program code for calculating an amount of maximum energy that said energy grid can deliver program code for determining a threshold energy demand on the grid wherein said threshold energy demand begins to stress one or more components of said utility grid program code for identifying one or more time periods when the threshold energy demand is met whereupon identification said energy management system with integrated alternate energy source and energy module storage sends power generated by one or more alternate energy sources to the utility grid and program code for sending energy to the utility grid until said energy demand falls below said threshold energy demand .

In another embodiment the EMSIS ES may further implement multiple sets of rules and constraints which govern how the combination of various resources e.g. energy storage plus load control may be used. For example if a utility desires to reduce its aggregated or individual load by 50 megawatts the EMSIS ES may process rules which indicate an optimal solution can be achieved via 30 MW of power through dispatching energy and 20 MW through load curtailment.

In another embodiment a rule set may dictate that if the price of power is less than 200 per megawatt day batteries may discharge up to 50 of their capacity in a single cycle if the price of power is greater than 200 per megawatt day but less than 400 per megawatt day batteries may discharge up to 65 of their available capacity in a single cycle and if the price of power is greater than 400 per megawatt day batteries may discharge up to 80 of their available capacity in a single cycle. They EMSIS ES may then calculate and display the amount of available energy storage capacity based upon the current or expected price of power.

In another embodiment by implementing peak load reduction and energy shaving the EMSIS ES may reduce incremental transmission and distribution investments for utility or independent service operator. For example the EMSIS ES may help relieve localized distribution issues by identifying an overstressed substation or feeder line. Deploying units to 5 of the affected areas may substantially increase reliability of the network. By controlling which loads reconnect to the grid the utility can stagger the reconnecting loads after brief and extended outages to assist with outage recovery management. In addition units with energy storage capacity can be instructed to discharge immediately after reconnecting the grid to less the impact of loads reconnecting.

The entire power storage and supply device is designed as a minimally invasive NEMA 3R Stainless Steel utility grade enclosure measuring 72 H 24 W 14 D designed as for outdoor application to be placed within the utility service area and easement of a residence or commercial building.

While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

In most embodiments the system includes some type of network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols GRPS GSM UMTS EDGE 2G 2.5G 3G 4G Wimax WiFi CDMA 2000 WCDMA the Bluetooth protocol known in the art und or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server computers which can be general purpose computers specialized server computers including merely by way of example PC servers UNIX servers mid range servers mainframe computers rack mounted servers etc. server farms server clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination. One or more of the servers e.g. may be dedicated to running applications such as a business application a Web server application server etc. Such servers may be used to process requests from user computers . The applications can also include any number of applications for controlling access to resources of the servers .

The Web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The Web server can also run any of a variety of server applications and or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers business applications and the like. The server s also may be one or more computers which can be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers . As one example a server may execute one or more Web applications. The Web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The system may also include one or more databases . The database s may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example a database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and or in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments the database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10g that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a digital signal processor DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the system .

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program which may be a client application Web browser mid tier application RDBMS etc. . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to store or transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

As discussed above embodiments are suitable for use with the Internet which refers to a specific global internetwork of networks. However it should be understood that other networks can be used instead of the Internet such as an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a non TCP IP based network any LAN or WAN or the like.

The security of a particular user system might be entirely determined by permissions permission levels for the current user. For example where a user account identification transaction may involve a portable identification alpha numeric data field physically or digitally linked to a personal primary identification device to request services from a provider account and wherein the user is using a particular user system to interact with System that user system has the permissions allotted to that user account. However while an administrator is using that user system to interact with System that user system has the permissions allotted to that administrator. In systems with a hierarchical role model users at one permission level may have access to applications data and database information accessible by a lower permission level user but may not have access to certain applications database information and data accessible by a user at a higher permission level. Thus different users will have different permissions with regard to accessing and modifying application and database information depending on a user s security or permission level.

A network can be a LAN local area network WAN wide area network wireless network point to point network star network token ring network hub network or other appropriate configuration. As the most common type of network in current use is a TCP IP Transfer Control Protocol and Internet Protocol network such as the global internetwork of networks often referred to as the Internet with a capital I that will be used in many of the examples herein. However it should be understood that the networks that the present invention might use are not so limited although TCP IP is a frequently implemented protocol.

User systems might communicate with a system using TCP IP and at a higher network level use other common Internet protocols to communicate such as HTTP FTP AFS WAP etc. In an example where HTTP is used a user system might include an HTTP client commonly referred to as a browser for sending and receiving HTTP messages to and from an HTTP server at System. Such HTTP server might be implemented as the sole network interface between a system and network but other techniques might be used as well or instead. In some implementations the interface between a system and network includes load sharing functionality such as round robin HTTP request distributors to balance loads and distribute incoming HTTP requests evenly over a plurality of servers. At least as for the users that are accessing that server each of the plurality of servers has access to at least one third party entity system data schema however other alternative configurations are contemplated.

According to one arrangement each user system and all of its components are operator configurable using applications such as a browser including computer code run using a central processing unit such as an Intel Pentium processor or the like. Similarly a computer system and additional instances of an enterprise database where more than one is present and all of their components might be operator configurable using application s including computer code run using a central processing unit such as an Intel Pentium processor or the like or multiple processor units. A computer program product aspect includes a machine readable storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program a computer to perform any of the processes of the embodiments described herein. Computer code for operating and configuring systems to intercommunicate and to process web pages applications and other data and media content as described herein is preferably downloaded and stored on a hard disk but the entire program code or portions thereof may also be locally stored in any other volatile or non volatile memory medium or device as is well known such as a ROM or RAM or provided on any media capable of storing program code such as any type of rotating media including floppy disks optical dises digital versatile disk DVD compact disk CD microdrive and magneto optical disks and magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data. Additionally the entire program code or portions thereof may be transmitted and downloaded from a software source over a transmission medium e.g. over the Internet or from another server as is well known or transmitted over any other conventional network connection as is well known e.g. extranet VPN LAN etc. using any communication medium and protocols e.g. TCP IP HTTP HTTPS Ethernet etc. as are well known. It will also be appreciated that computer code for implementing aspects of the present invention can be implemented in any programming language that can be executed on a client system and or server or server system such as for example in C C HTML any other markup language Java JavaScript ActiveX any other scripting language such as VBScript and many other programming languages as are well known. Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. .

The above illustrations provide many different embodiments for implementing different features of the invention. Specific embodiments of components and processes are described to help clarify the invention. These are of course merely embodiments and are not intended to limit the invention from that described in the claims.

