---

title: Method and apparatus for monitoring and adjusting multiple communication services at a venue
abstract: Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, initiating first and second groups of communication sessions according to testing criteria where the first group of communication sessions is established via a local area wireless access technology utilizing the distributed antenna system and the second group of communication sessions is established via the second radio access technology utilizing the distributed antenna system, and measuring performance data for the first and second groups of communication sessions according to the testing criteria. Other embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351182&OS=09351182&RS=09351182
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, LP
number: 09351182
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
The subject disclosure relates to a method and apparatus for monitoring and adjusting multiple communication services at a venue.

Venues such as stadiums arenas and so forth often have a large number of users accessing communication services at the same time. This can create stress on the communications network which may not only affect the users at the venue but can also affect users outside of the venue. Service providers can attempt to alleviate the stress on the communications network but this can be difficult given the number of different services being utilized and the large number of users that are being affected.

The subject disclosure describes among other things illustrative embodiments for a probe device s for measuring and communicating performance test results of communication services provided by a venue Distributed Antenna System DAS cellular network and or local area wireless networks e.g. WiFi to one or more service servers. Adjustments to the DAS and or network parameters for a network providing services to the venue can be made based on the performance test results. The probe device s can be in communication with a management portal server s for receiving various information including testing criteria e.g. test suites that indicate one or more of types of data to obtain types of tests to perform types of communication services to test testing schedules and so forth software updates recover commands to assist other probe devices following a failure of the other probe device and so forth.

In one or more embodiments the probe device can measure the performance of wireless networks in near real time and in a non intrusive manner so that the testing itself does not degrade the system performance. The probe device is flexible enough to work with multiple forms of radio technology including cellular as well as 802.11 networks and allows for the use of different types of antennas. The probe device can operate in either indoor or outdoor environments and is cost effective.

In one or more embodiments the probe device is a small low power Advanced Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC Machine ARM microprocessor based unit that functions as a wireless probe. The probe device can include a weather resistant enclosure configured for wall or pole mounting such as in exposed environments. The probe device can include a hardwire interface for an Ethernet link and or receiving power over its Ethernet link such as via a Power Over Ethernet PoE mechanism e.g. IEEE 802.3af compliant device . For instance the Ethernet interface can be a single interface of the probe device that can receive power e.g. via a PoE methods and components can receive command signals from a remote device e.g. a management portal server enabling management of the probe device and can provide test data to a remote device e.g. a database .

In one or more embodiments the probe device via communication with one or more other devices e.g. the service server a management portal server a database server and so forth can provide measurable quality of service statistics through monitoring of multiple wireless services e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE Universal Mobile Telecommunications UMTS Global System for Mobile GSM Global Position System GPS WiFi World interoperability for Microwave WiMAX and others during events at venues e.g. football or basketball game to ensure that the DAS is functioning correctly to support end user devices where voice calls text messaging with attachments photos videos or social media sites may be updated by large numbers of users simultaneously during the event.

In one or more embodiments the probe device can perform a series of automated tests on a user specified schedule by initiating voice calls sending and receiving Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messages and performing Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or File Transfer Protocol FTP uploads and downloads through the DAS network at the venue. This test data can be used such as by the probe device and or by a network server to map system performance to specific areas of the venue.

In one or more embodiments a system can utilize a group of the probe devices at a venue to obtain test results for various communication services provided at the venue. Based on the test results utilization of network resources and or network performance can be evaluated and various parameters of the DAS network and or macro cell s can be adjusted to provide improved network performance and a better user experience in the coverage area provided by the DAS network.

Other embodiments are described in the subject disclosure. Other embodiments that can be used in whole or in part with the embodiments described herein are described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 318 944 entitled A Method and Apparatus for Managing Wireless Probe Devices the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a probe device having a first wireless interface that enables communications via a first local area wireless access technology a second wireless interface that enables communications via a second radio access technology a processor coupled with the first and second wireless interfaces and a memory that stores executable instructions. The processor when executing the executable instructions performs operation including receiving testing criteria from a management portal server. The processor can initiate first and second groups of communication sessions according to the testing criteria where the first group of communication sessions is established via the local area wireless access technology utilizing a distributed antenna system and where the second group of communication sessions is established via the second radio access technology utilizing the distributed antenna system. The processor can measure performance data for the first and second groups of communication sessions according to the testing criteria.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure is a method including receiving by a system including a processor performance data from a probe device where the performance data is for first and second groups of communication sessions initiated by the probe device where the performance data is measured according to testing criteria where the first group of communication sessions is established via a local area wireless access technology utilizing a distributed antenna system and where the second group of communication sessions is established via a second radio access technology utilizing the distributed antenna system. The method can include analyzing by the system the performance data. The method can include adjusting by the system the distributed antenna system a network providing communication services to a location where the probe device is positioned or a combination thereof. The adjusting can be based on the analyzing of the performance data.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a machine readable storage medium having executable instructions that when executed by a processor of a probe device facilitate performance of operations including initiating by a first wireless interface of the probe device a first group of communication sessions according to testing criteria where the first group of communication sessions is established via a local area wireless access technology utilizing a distributed antenna system. The processor can initiate by a second wireless interface of the probe device a second group of communication sessions according to the testing criteria where the second group of communication sessions is established via a second radio access technology utilizing the distributed antenna system. The processor can establish a first thread for the first wireless interface and a second thread for the second wireless interface. The processor can measure first performance data for the first group of communication sessions according to the testing criteria utilizing the first thread. The processor can measure second performance data for the second group of communication sessions according to the testing criteria utilizing the second thread. The processor can provide the first and second performance data to a network server to enable adjustment of the distributed antenna system adjustment of a network providing communication services to a location where the probe device is positioned or a combination thereof.

System can include a group of probe devices that are positioned at various areas of the venue for monitoring communication services accessible in these areas. System can also include a management portal server a network e.g. a Radio Access Network RAN including a Network Operations Center RAN NOC a service server and a database server e.g. an SQL database server . In one or more embodiments the probe device can communicate with the management portal server and or the service server via a hardwire interface e.g. interface through use of routers and a site switch such as a Smart Integrated Access Device SIAD . For instance interface can be used as a command interface that enables remote management or control over the probe device such as through receiving command signals from a remote device e.g. the management portal server . In another embodiment the interface can also be utilized for providing power to the probe device . The probe device can perform a series of automated tests such as according to a user specified schedule by initiating voice calls sending and receiving SMS and MMS messages and or performing HTTP and or FTP uploads and or downloads through the DAS in order to enable mapping e.g. by the probe devices by the management portal server and or by the service server of system performance to specific areas of the venue .

In one or more embodiments the probe devices can be mounted or otherwise affixed to infrastructure of the venue such as a wall or ceiling or can be positioned on a pole at a height that prevents tampering or otherwise contact with persons. As an example and referring additionally to the probe device can be a small integrated unit based on an ARM family processor and associated peripherals which supports Mini PCIe compliant plugin cellular modems and a Mini PCIe 802.11 WiFi modem. Other types of modems that operate utilizing other access technology can also be utilized in addition to or in place of the modems of . The combination of small size low power and flexibility of communications types and bands e.g. UMTS GSM LTE GPS and or WiFi can enable the probe device to efficiently perform Quality of Service QoS testing for mobile communication services. The probe device can support new or emerging technologies via software updates and or component updates e.g. modular components that are removable from the probe device .

In one or more embodiments all of the onboard communication of the probe device between the control module and the various modems can be performed through interconnection of the internal mini PCIe cellular modems via USB 2.0 standard interfaces and a multi port USB hub. In one or more embodiments the probe device can support integration of a commercially available mobile handset e.g. an Android handset to provide additional testing capability. In one embodiment the probe device can include a single external hardwire connection or interface which can provide an Ethernet interface to the service server and or power via PoE circuitry. In one embodiment the enclosure or housing can satisfy Telcordia requirements for weather temperature dust intrusion and so forth for enclosures and can provide industry standard antenna connections for maximum flexibility in antenna selection.

In one embodiment the probe device can provide a visual indicator such as a single externally visible LED that flashes or otherwise emits an indication in a specified manner to represent operations of the probe device such as each time that power is applied after a period without power e.g. the LED can remain On when the probe device is booting a short flash when the IP address is enabled exhibit a long flash when the operating system is loading and turn Off when the probe device has been registered with the service server and or the management portal server . These LED or other visual indications can be visible at the time of installation to enable a determination that the probe device is functioning before the installation is completed.

The probe device can operate using various operating systems such as a Linux operating system to provide for flexibility and software compatibility. The probe device can accept external commands such as from the management portal server e.g. via interface for functions including starting and stopping the software rebooting reporting status and or enabling the management portal server to remotely initiate an upgrade to the software without a service call. The software of the probe device can accept Advanced Technology AT commands through the diagnostic maintenance port for administrative or troubleshooting purposes. In one embodiment a portal operator via the management portal server can upload new or unique test suites to each probe device at the venue such as based upon the features and function that needs to be tested.

Referring additionally to the functionality of the probe device is generally illustrated. The probe device software enables administration testing and or reporting of the status of the probe device itself and the results of the network testing to the service server and the database server . The software can also listen for commands from the management portal server that may change the status and or test regimen of the probe device as it runs on the probe device platform.

In one embodiment the probe device software can be composed of several separate functions that work together to provide the reliability test environment and flexibility to support continuous network operations. For example the probe device boot up sequence as illustrated in can include a first stage boot loader MLO that is loaded from ROM which in turn loads the second stage boot loader u boot . The u boot can be modified to allow the download of a kernel from NAND ROM on the board or from the network using Trivial File Transfer Protocol TFTP in case of failure to load from ROM. During the initialization process an automatic login can be performed using ttyO0 script. On login the probe device can execute a .bashrc script that sets the probe device time zone to UTC and starts a watchdog process which can be a parent process. This sequence of boot up steps can enable the probe device software to auto start on every soft and or hard reboot.

In one embodiment the probe device software can include a watchdog process which can be for example a Linux process. The probe device can create a probe device agent and a controller child process such as by using fork and exec routines in Linux. The watchdog process can wait for an exit status of either of these processes using a waitpid process. If any of these processes exits with the status EXITED or SIGNALED it can recreate the process to ensure that the probe device agent and controller processes are always active.

In one or more embodiments the probe device has a controller process that can also be a Linux process and can be a supporting process to the probe device agent. The controller process main function is to send the status of the probe device to the database server and to the service server and to listen for new commands from the management portal server . The controller process can be comprised of four elements as shown in . The configuration parser can parse the probe device configuration file to read the service server URL and the probe device software FTP URL. The service server URL can be used to send a heart beat every two minutes to the service server . The probe device software can be downloaded from the FTP URL. The probe device can send a heartbeat to the service server at regular intervals e.g. every two minutes to indicate to the service server that the probe device is alive and online. The command receiver can be a thread which runs a TCP listener to receive commands from the management portal server . The command receiver can acknowledge a command request by sending an ACK response back to the management portal server . The command controller can parse the command and can determine whether the command is to be provided to the controller process or to the probe device agent for execution. Various commands can be handled or otherwise processed by the controller via the command handler such as software updates including downloading and installing the probe device software probe device reboot including performing a soft boot of the probe device which assists in recovering from a condition where the probe device software is stuck and has become inactive. In one embodiment all other commands can be forwarded to the probe device agent.

The probe device agent can be a Linux process and can be a main process of the probe device software which performs tests to capture and measure wireless network performance. The probe device agent can also be responsible to post the test results to the service server . The probe device agent can have a number of components illustrated in . In one embodiment the probe device agent can have a configuration parser that parses the probe device configuration file to read the service server URL test schedule and test case configuration. The registration component can perform initialization and registration of the probe device to the service server . The registration component expects to detect all or at least one of the LTE modem UMTS modem WiFi modem or Android handset connected to the probe device hardware. The registration component can read the model manufacturer IMEI ICCID IMSI MSISDN of the LTE and or UMTS modems. The registration component can read the model manufacturer IMSI and or serial number of the Android handset. The registration component can read the model and manufacturer of the WiFi card. The registration component can also capture the MACID IP Address probe device software version and or current probe device configuration version of the probe device . All this information can be reported in the registration request. The probe device can perform registration even if none of these devices are detected. In one embodiment if the probe device is running a different configuration version than what is mapped in the management portal server the registration request s response can include a new mapped probe device configuration file. In one embodiment upon receiving the probe device configuration file the probe device agent can restart to interface with the new configuration file.

The probe device agent can have a peripheral initialization component that initializes the LTE modem UMTS modem WiFi cards and or Android handsets. All these devices can be connected to the probe device on the USB host port via the multi port USB hub so communication with all of the internal devices can occur using a USB protocol. The LTE and UMTS modem initialization can include setting up a data session with the network and assigning an IP address to the modem interface on the probe device . By setting up a data session at startup the probe device agent can be always ready to perform data related tests on the network it does not tear down the data session on every test. The probe device can also initiate a separate thread for each modem to read the response on the AT command interface. WiFi card initialization can include scanning of available WiFi hotspots and establishing connection with the SSID as configured in the probe device configuration file. This can supports WEP WPA and WPA2 authentication for connection. For accessing a WiFi Services network the probe device can implement an AAA specification and can also run a daemon which processes automatic re connection to a WiFi hotspot in case the connection fails.

In one embodiment the WiFi LTE and UMTS modems can each create one network interface on the probe device and there can always be an Ethernet network interface. In Linux there may only be one default network interface which is used when any application tries to communicate with another device. To enable simultaneous communication on these interfaces without changing from using the Ethernet as the default interface the probe device agent can perform IP rule setting for each of these interfaces. In one embodiment Domain Name Server DNS resolution takes place using the Ethernet interface even when using one of the other three interfaces. The Android handset can have two interfaces with the probe device agent. The first interface can be over USB which is used by the probe device agent to communicate with the probe device using ADB Android Debug Bridge and the interface is a General Purpose Interface Output GPIO to control the power ON OFF of the Android handset. During initialization the probe device agent can use ADB checks if the Android handset is connected. If the probe device agent does not detect the handset it assumes that it is OFF and can operate GPIO to perform a power cycle on the Android handset. The probe device agent can wait and recheck the connection to the Android handset. Once the connection is established the probe device agent can start the Android application which can be later instructed to perform some tests. The probe device agent can use the TCP port to establish socket communication with the Android application which can be listening on port 8888.

The probe device agent can have an AT handler that interacts with the modem using AT commands. The AT handler can support sending of AT commands to the modems and in reading both solicited and unsolicited responses. In one embodiment there can be a dedicated AT Handler for the UMTS modem and for the LTE modem. The probe device agent can have a test controller that is responsible for controlling and scheduling the test execution. The test controller can create a separate thread for each test execution and can wait for its completion. On completion the test controller can create a thread for the next test case. Each test case has an associated time period during which it is expected to complete the test. If a test takes more time it is abruptly terminated and the next test execution begins. The test controller can ensure that the tests are executed per the test schedule established in the probe device configuration file received from the management portal server . The probe device configuration file can support various types of scheduling including Microsoft Outlook scheduling. The test controller can store a sequence ID of the current executing test case and if for any reason the probe device agent experiences a failure on auto restart the probe device can start executing the next test case in the sequence.

The probe device agent can have a test executor that is responsible for test execution. Before commencing the actual test the network parameters can be captured. After each test execution the network parameters can again be captured and stored in a local database e.g. a memory device integrated into the probe device or coupled thereto along with the test results.

The test executor can perform various tests on a number of communication sessions utilizing various wireless access technologies. The tests can include a voice test SMS test MMS test HTTP download goodput test HTTP download throughput test HTTP upload goodput test HTTP upload throughput test FTP download test FTP upload test PDP context establishment test ping latency test microburst test and or DNS resolution test.

The probe device agent can have a database manager which can be an SQLite database application for storing the test results. For example the database can be created on an SD card. The data can have two parts test suite related data and test case related data. There can be one or more test cases in one test suite. Data can be stored in JSON encoded format in the database which is in the same format used for posting data to the service and database servers . This can assist in avoiding re encoding of the data while posting a previously failed post to the database server . After each successful post to the database server the corresponding data can be deleted from the local database. If the posting of data to the database server fails the data can be retained in the local database and can be queued to be retried for posting later.

The probe device agent can have a command handler. The probe device agent can process various commands such as via the command handler e.g. commands received from the management portal server stop probe device service stops the probe device agent from executing any test and the probe device then goes into IDLE state start probe device service starts the probe device agent and places the probe device in an ACTIVE state start monitor this command instructs the probe device agent to send the test results after each test execution is completed and this command is sent by the management portal server when a user is viewing the dynamic status of the probe device stop monitor this command instructs the probe device agent that the probe device s status is no longer being viewed dynamically so the probe device agent should stop sending the test results at end of each test execution stream software update updates the application on the Android handset stream reboot reboots the Android handset connected to the probe device stream start application starts the application on the Android handset stream stop application stops the application on the Android handset stream power cycle power cycles the Android handset via the probe device agent initiating a GPIO to power cycle the optional handset status post posts the current status of the probe device Active Idle to the database server result post posts the test results to the database server and or log post posts the debug logs to the database server for troubleshooting.

In one embodiment the probe device can utilize a configuration file such as in JSON format that includes a registration URL and port number of the service server test scheduling that allows setting the schedule for testing and which includes options for calendar invites test case details including details of the test case to be performed by the probe device such as test ID technology metadata specific to the test and or timeout and where the test cases can be listed in the order in which they are expected to be executed by the probe device and or a maximum size of log file where the probe device can purge the log file once it reaches this size.

In one embodiment the probe device can utilize a probe device recovery mechanism to address a failure of the probe device such as in booting up. If the probe device is not able to boot up it can become inaccessible remotely using Secure Shell SSH commands or telnet and it may not perform testing. In one embodiment another probe device that is properly functioning can be used to recover the faulty probe device in a same venue. For example the management portal server can send a command to the properly functioning probe device to change its role which sets an alias IP address such as 192.168.0.1. The management portal server can send a command to the faulty probe device to power cycle. Upon boot up the faulty probe device can sets its IP address as 192.168.0.2 and can download a kernel and a root file system from the properly functioning probe device at IP address 192.168.0.1 to recover itself.

Referring back to system of the system provides measurable quality of service statistics through the testing and monitoring of wireless services e.g. LTE UMTS GPS and WiFi using the probe devices and the service software described above. The probe devices each execute a series of test scripts the same scripts or different scripts that are part of a test suite that tests network services such as voice MMS and SMS messaging location based services loading soft handoff bandwidth and other criteria associated with the DAS . The probe devices can communicate through routers not shown and utilizing a site switch e.g. SIAD which can transfer the test results data and other network information to the database server to store the test information. In one embodiment the system can autonomously monitor the database of test data and can evaluate key performance indicators and send alarm to the management portal server and or to the RAN NOC to alert them to a change in the performance status of the probe devices . In one embodiment the service server can analyze the test data and may determine whether certain threshold s associated with key performance indicators that are unique to the network such as corresponding to a soft handover rate or latency are being met.

In one embodiment the system can use a REpresentational State Transfer REST RESTful Web service. The communication can be over the secure HTTPS protocol. Data can be exchanged in JavaScript Object Notation JSON format. Probe device postings can be in a distributed architecture. Bi directional communication can be performed with the probe devices . Synchronization can be performed of the time used by the probe devices in reporting test activities with the standard server UTC time. Registration of the probe devices can be performed. Updates can be performed for the database with the test results data. Purging of the database can be performed at regular intervals. Notification messages can be sent when a probe device is Offline or Inactive. Notification messages can be provided when any of the servers e.g. management portal server service server and database server is down or otherwise not functioning properly. Notification messages can be sent if the site switch e.g. SIAD is down or otherwise functioning improperly. Probe device Ethernet status can be shown or otherwise indicated as Online Offline and activity status as Active Idle Inactive.

In one embodiment the service server can be a primary interface to the database server which supports the central database with which the other devices and servers service server management portal server probe devices interact. In one embodiment the probe devices can report completion of the test suite to the service server and can post updates to the database server causing the service server to notify the management portal server that the test results information has been updated. In this example the management portal server can retrieve the new information from the database . Continuing with this example the probe devices may not respond directly to the management portal server commands.

System through use of active monitoring of communication services at the venue enables adjustments to the coverage of the antenna system of the DAS that can increase performance such as in certain high usage load areas thereby increasing call performance and customer satisfaction. Based on the test data collected by the probe devices and stored on the database server when the performance of the DAS reaches a specified threshold alarms can be issued such as to the network control component in the RAN NOC . These alarms or other notification information resulting from an analysis of the test results of the probe devices can be used to dynamically adjust parameters associated with neighboring macro cell towers and or the DAS inside the venue to increase performance. These changes or adjustments can include increasing or decreasing antenna amplification at the macro tower adding spectrum changing antenna tilt to provide better coverage and or splitting antenna coverage areas to balance the load. In one or more embodiments the RAN NOC can perform a number of mitigation strategies according to the test results of the probe device remotely changing antenna amplification adjusting antenna tilt in the affected DAS sector s adding antennas in the affected DAS sector s and or bisecting DAS sector s into additional DAS sectors to decrease the number of users on each antenna. Other parameters can also be adjusted to improve or otherwise alter system performance according to the test results of the probe devices depending on the particular system and the parameters available to tune system performance.

At the probe devices can initiate communication sessions according to the testing criteria. The communication sessions can be voice messaging video and or data services utilizing various wireless access technologies including LTE UMTS GSM GPS WiFi and so forth. At testing can be performed by the probe devices to obtain performance data. Examples of types of tests that can be performed by the probe devices are illustrated in . In one embodiment some or all of the initiation of the communication sessions and or the testing can be performed simultaneously or overlapping in time utilizing the multiple modems integrated into the probe devices . In one embodiment the testing can be done utilizing spate threads for each modem.

At a determination can be made as to whether a connection to a network server e.g. service server and or database server exists. For example each probe device can have a single hardwire interface enabling an Ethernet connection via SIAD to the network server. If the connection does not exist or is otherwise determined to be unavailable for use by the probe device the probe device can locally store the performance data and continue to perform tests on the various communication services at the venue . Once the connection with the network server is restored or if the connection was determined to be available the performance data or a portion thereof can be transmitted at for storage by the database server .

The stored performance data can be analyzed at e.g. by the management portal server to identify the performance of the DAS with respect to each of the communication services over the different wireless access technologies. If the QoS or other performance threshold is satisfactory then method can return to to continue the monitoring and collection of test data by the probe devices . If on the other hand the performance of the DAS is below a QoS threshold or below some other performance threshold then adjustments can be made at to improve or otherwise alter the performance associated with one or more of the communication services over one or more of the wireless access technologies. For example alarms may be issued to the RAN NOC for dynamically adjusting parameters associated with the neighboring macro cell towers and the DAS antenna system inside the venue to increase performance. As another example the system can increase or decrease antenna amplification at the macro tower add spectrum change antenna tilt to provide better coverage or split antenna coverage areas to balance the load. Other examples of mitigation actions responsive to detected performance issues include remotely changing antenna amplification adjusting antenna tilt in the affected DAS sector s adding antennas in the affected DAS sector s and or bisecting DAS sector s into additional DAS sectors to decrease the number of users on each antenna.

Multiple forms of media services can be offered to end user devices at the venue including voice video messaging and or data according to various wireless access protocols such as GSM Code Division Multiple Access or CDMA Time Division Multiple Access or TDMA UMTS WiMAX Software Defined Radio or SDR LTE WiFi WiMAX and so on. Other present and next generation wide area wireless access network technologies and or local area wireless access technologies can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

In one or more embodiments tracking and validating the correct operation of the hardware and software for each probe device can be performed as the probe device goes through the manufacturing and acceptance test phases before installation in a live venue. For example a test server system can be utilized as part of the manufacturing and acceptance process for each of the probe devices . The test server system can have a blend or portions of the three server management portal server service server and database server software suites to enable a full range of functional tests on the probe devices as they complete the manufacturing process. The test server system can have similar functionality to the management portal server in order to test the probe devices before they are deployed to the field. The test server system can have the ability to work continuously and can include the ability to auto start the software once the system boot is complete. The test server system can have the ability to auto recover from a failure condition and can provide support for various wireless technology testing including WiFi LTE UMTS and GSM.

The test server system can track the manufacturer and model of each of the installed radio modules of the probe devices their associated SIM cards and the activation of its International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI International Communications Committee Identity ICCID and Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number MSISDN . The test server system can also perform the functions of the service server of registering and identifying the probe device and recording the ICCID MSISDN and SIM card data for each of the modems wireless account activation for the UMTS modem LTE modem and the integrated handset verifying the correct software version initializing the test suite and monitoring the test suite completion. The probe device can run the assigned test suite for a specified burn in period during final manufacturing testing and report the results to the test server system. The service server can store all of the collected test results data on the database portion of the server.

In one embodiment the test server system can perform some of the functions of the database server to create a database record of the configuration of each new probe device including ICCID MSISDN and SIM card tracking by serial number MAC address of the processor board modem model identification and serial numbers software version number and test data as the probe device undergoes final testing at the manufacturing site. The test server system can record this information and can send a notification to the management portal software that the database data has been updated and is available for review. At this point the management portal software can create a new test suite for this probe device or assign an existing test suite for the functional testing of the probe device. The test server system can monitor the software version installed on each probe device to ensure that it is the latest released version. The portal software can control how many times each test of the test suite is run on the probe device and the time period between each different use case test that is part of the test suite and each iteration of that use case during acceptance testing. The test suite run on each probe device can consist of multiple use cases and each can be run multiple times as specified in the portal software. As each probe device completes the manufacturing cycle the portal can assign a test suite and those test results and the time of completion can be recorded along with the test result data to ensure that all of the major functional pieces of the probe devices are performing as specified for acceptance by a service provider. An example of use case tests that may be used to build a test suite is shown in . Not all of the available use cases need to be used in each test suite and the test suite contents can depend upon a number of different factors including the modem types installed in the probe device .

Active testing at the manufacturing and acceptance test phase for each production probe device can ensure that the highest quality and latest versions of the probe devices are available in the venues to monitor the DAS . The use of a test server system enables remotely manage probe devices since the portal is web based any user having proper privileges in the portal and access to the network can access the portal from a PC tablet cell phone or other connected mobile device and is not access platform dependent able to perform automated testing around the clock to keep the new production probe device s quality standards high analyze the test results in a graphical manner based on which technology is being monitored create and edit custom test suites for expanded testing of the probe devices before delivery download the use case test suites to the probe devices remotely update the probe device software remotely probe device tests can be monitored in near real time thus enabling the user to know the current status of the acceptance testing of each probe device and adjust the testing if any weak performing areas are identified during the tests ability to support testing on at least two radios simultaneously probe device auto registration with the service section of the test server system tests the operation of the registration routine where upon successful boot up the probe device begins reporting test results to the database portion of the server and then reporting the availability of the test results to the portal software when requested by the acceptance test operator. The portal software allows management of the test suite and test scheduling. Remote management of the probe devices is enables including reboot power cycle stop service and start service. The probe device status can be shown as Online or Offline and the state as Active Idle or Inactive.

Upon reviewing the aforementioned embodiments it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that said embodiments can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope of the claims described below. For example one or more of the components e.g. the probe device the management portal server and or the service server can be utilized for monitoring evaluating and adjusting communication services at a venue that does not include a DAS.

Active monitoring of the DAS of the venue allows adjustments to the coverage of the antenna system that can increase performance in certain high load areas thereby increasing communication service performance and customer satisfaction. Remote management of the probe devices through the management portal server can include auto recovery of firmware software failures so that physical intervention is not required monitoring test results posted over a reliable Ethernet network enabling troubleshooting using SSH scheduling testing hourly daily weekly or monthly retaining data on the probe device to avoid loss of data in the event that the probe device cannot download the test results to the database server remotely configurable test execution to be able to change the test suite as conditions change at the venue auto registration on startup for probe device detection real time status updates being available on the management portal server by using a start monitoring command supporting a scalable architecture to support new modem and technology with minimum changes to the software supporting self diagnostic testing to discover errors hardware assembly during manufacturing remotely managing Android handsets through the probe device software providing technology agnostic monitoring to support future growth in communications technology a scalable protocol to support additional test parameters without modification to the software interface supporting and controlling a probe device s ability to switch roles because it can act as a monitor to perform network testing or as a responder to serve as an auto reply system for multimedia and SMS text messages or as a mender to use to download the correct software to recover an unresponsive probe device the ability to support testing on multiple integrated radios simultaneously the ability to remotely upgrade the probe device software as well as firmware.

In one or more embodiments the probe device software can continuously run and can include the ability to auto start once the system boot is complete. The probe device can auto recover from a failure condition facilitate configuration provide support for various access technologies e.g. WiFi LTE UMTS and GSM provide an easy means to support new technologies and new communications bands and provide the ability to communicate over Ethernet and wireless network interfaces simultaneously. The probe device can be remotely configurable from the management portal server and have the ability to upgrade the software remotely. The portal device can process commands from the management portal server register with the management portal server synchronize the date and time with the management portal server communicate with an Android handset over ADB Android debug bridge power cycle an Android handset using General Purpose Input Output GPIO pins store test results in a local database in case of an error in reporting the test results to the service server or the database server report the test results to the database server over Ethernet report various requested or required network parameters including RSSI received signal strength indication SINR Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio BER bit error rate Reference Signal Received Power RSRP Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ band measure performance of voice call SMS MMS Packet Data Protocol PDP Context Establishment latency HTTP FTP upload download throughput goodput DNS resolution time apply a microburst method of measuring upload and download throughput and or apply a speed test method of measuring upload and download throughput.

The collection of test results from the probe devices situated in different areas of the venue allows the RAN operators to identify which parts of the system are suffering degraded performance and enables them to make the appropriate adjustments in that area to resolve the problem without disrupting other technology types or coverage areas.

In one or more embodiments the probe devices can operate independently and autonomously without centralized control. Various data compilation techniques can be utilized including a tree or hierarchy for test results. The probe device can be physically located in a particular sector of a venue and the probe device can know which sector and which macro cell tower it is associated with. Sector density may be different in different regions of a venue. Sector locations can distinguish areas of a venue such as seating area from a concession area. The probe devices can be used to monitor traffic in a particular region of the venue depending upon event timing such as the probe device focused on monitoring seating areas during periods of a game and can focus on concession lobby areas during intermission before after game. When making a change to a network the probe devices may perform more aggressive testing e.g. to verify a particular change was effective. Such probe device routines can be classified as special routines meaning they would only be implemented during special circumstances such as a network change. API s can be used to interface with management portal server or other network servers. Data can be collected from other carriers by the probe devices. In a comparative mode more than one probe device can be implemented within each sector e.g. two probe device to allow simultaneous testing to be performed same test case started at the same time. In this example a comparison between test results can be made to verify accuracy of data.

The exemplary embodiments can be applied to cell towers. Power can be provided on a POTs line e.g. on a telephone pole. In one or more embodiments the probe devices do not contain a battery. In other embodiments a backup power source can be used such as a battery or a hardwire connection with another power source. The antennas on the probe device can be positioned and spaced apart to enable simultaneous operation Simop of different modems. In one embodiment particular probe devices can be located based on the management portal server remotely turning on the LED indicator of the particular probe device. In one or more embodiments a venue can have more than one DAS e.g. a first service provider DAS a second service provider DAS and a third party DAS .

In one or more embodiments the test results collected enable a comparison of services between different service providers at the same venue. In one embodiment test results can be shared between probe devices so that data verification for accuracy can be performed locally by the probe devices. In one embodiment other data can be collected as part of the services analysis for the venue such as network traffic network resource usage historical network traffic historical resource usage predicted network traffic predicted resource usage for the network surrounding or in proximity to the venue. In one or more embodiments mitigation strategies resulting from an analysis of the test probe performance data can include adjusting network parameters to achieve a compromise between performance of different services at the venue. In one embodiment an analysis of test results collected from the probe devices can be used for generating testing criteria e.g. types of tests types of data to be collected and or schedules for the test to be provided to the same or different probe devices for future testing.

It should be understood that devices described in the exemplary embodiments can be in communication with each other via various wireless and or wired methodologies. The methodologies can be links that are described as coupled connected and so forth which can include unidirectional and or bidirectional communication over wireless paths and or wired paths that utilize one or more of various protocols or methodologies where the coupling and or connection can be direct e.g. no intervening processing device and or indirect e.g. an intermediary processing device such as a router .

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet a smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a communication device of the subject disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methods discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor or controller e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel or a solid state display . The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device . In distributed environments the embodiments described in the subject disclosure can be adapted to utilize multiple display units controlled by two or more computer systems . In this configuration presentations described by the subject disclosure may in part be shown in a first of the display units while the remaining portion is presented in a second of the display units .

The disk drive unit may include a tangible computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methods or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute tangible computer readable storage media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Application specific integrated circuits and programmable logic array can use downloadable instructions for executing state machines and or circuit configurations to implement embodiments of the subject disclosure. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure the operations or methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs or instructions running on or executed by a computer processor or other computing device and which may include other forms of instructions manifested as a state machine implemented with logic components in an application specific integrated circuit or field programmable gate array. Furthermore software implementations e.g. software programs instructions etc. including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein. It is further noted that a computing device such as a processor a controller a state machine or other suitable device for executing instructions to perform operations or methods may perform such operations directly or indirectly by way of one or more intermediate devices directed by the computing device.

While the tangible computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term tangible computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods of the subject disclosure. The term non transitory as in a non transitory computer readable storage includes without limitation memories drives devices and anything tangible but not a signal per se.

The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape or other tangible media which can be used to store information. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a tangible computer readable storage medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are from time to time superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Wireless standards for device detection e.g. RFID short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Zigbee and long range communications e.g. WiMAX GSM CDMA LTE can be used by computer system .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The exemplary embodiments can include combinations of features and or steps from multiple embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein can be used in the subject disclosure. In one or more embodiments features that are positively recited can also be excluded from the embodiment with or without replacement by another component or step. The steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can be performed in any order. The steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can be performed alone or in combination with other steps or functions from other embodiments or from other steps that have not been described .

Less than all of the steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can also be performed in one or more of the exemplary embodiments. Further the use of numerical terms to describe a device component step or function such as first second third and so forth is not intended to describe an order or function unless expressly stated so. The use of the terms first second third and so forth is generally to distinguish between devices components steps or functions unless expressly stated otherwise. Additionally one or more devices or components described with respect to the exemplary embodiments can facilitate one or more functions where the facilitating e.g. facilitating access or facilitating establishing a connection can include less than every step needed to perform the function or can include all of the steps needed to perform the function.

In one or more embodiments a processor which can include a controller or circuit has been described that performs various functions. It should be understood that the processor can be multiple processors which can include distributed processors or parallel processors in a single machine or multiple machines. The processor can be used in supporting a virtual processing environment. The virtual processing environment may support one or more virtual machines representing computers servers or other computing devices. In such virtual machines components such as microprocessors and storage devices may be virtualized or logically represented. The processor can include a state machine application specific integrated circuit and or programmable gate array including a Field PGA. In one or more embodiments when a processor executes instructions to perform operations this can include the processor performing the operations directly and or facilitating directing or cooperating with another device or component to perform the operations.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

