---

title: Configuration of a profile associated with a stylus
abstract: A stylus may comprise a configurable profile to control one or more local and remote operational features. One or more computing devices may be in communication with the stylus. The one or more computing devices may be configured to receive information relating to the reconfiguration of the settings of the operational profile, reconfigure the operational profile based at least in part on the received information, store the reconfigured operational profile, and associate the reconfigured operational profile with the stylus, wherein the at least one operational feature of the stylus is modified based on the reconfigured operational profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09383839&OS=09383839&RS=09383839
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09383839
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141208
---
Touchscreen displays or touchscreens are visual displays that allow user interaction with the displayed image by touching the screen. Touchscreens may sense one or more touches at any given time and interpret the touches as a user input. Touches of a touchscreen may include any number of gestures such as a point touch a swipe a pinch and the like. The different gestures may be interpreted as different user inputs such as a point touch to make a selection a swipe to scroll a pinch to zoom and the like. Touchscreens may provide users with the convenience of not needing large input devices such as a mouse a keyboard and the like to provide inputs to a user device.

Touchscreens are increasingly common in many computing devices such as tablet computers cell phones gaming machines laptop computers GPS devices car entertainment systems and the like. Many of these devices may be communicatively connected to communication networks such as WiFi networks cellular data networks and the like. Such devices may allow for convenient user input via a touchscreen while providing access to many computing resources accessible via a communication network.

There are many types of touchscreens. Regardless of the type of touchscreen used a user may interact with the touchscreen using a touchscreen input device. A touchscreen input device is a device that includes an end that may be used to interact with a touchscreen. The end may include a capacitive tip an electrical conductor on the tip an insert such as a nib and the like. The end may be configured to receive replaceable nibs. One example of a touchscreen input device is a stylus. As a further example the stylus may have a configurable profile for selectively controlling at least one operational feature of the stylus. As such the touchscreen responds to the stylus based on the settings established in the configurable profile. In an aspect one or more of a tactile audible and visual feedback may be implemented via the touchscreen and or the stylus based on the configurable profile. The configurable profile may travel with the stylus and may carry over between touchscreens or between various computer devices.

A stylus may also include any number of other features. For example a stylus may have features that may aid a computing device in determining an orientation of the stylus with respect to the device. For example the stylus includes a first color region and a second color region . These color regions and are shown as striped but could also be dots or any other shape. The color regions and may be different colors so that a camera or other light sensing component on a computing device may determine which end of the stylus is closest to the computing device. The stylus could also include a third color region or any number of other color regions to aid in determining the orientation of the stylus with respect to the computing device. Having more than two color regions may help determine orientation in the case where one of the color regions is obscured such as being obscured by the user s hand. In another example different ends of the stylus may emit light or other electromagnetic radiation at different wavelengths. In this example a stylus may emit red light from one end and blue light from the other end and the computing device may be able to determine the color of light emitted from the end closest to the computing device. Similar examples are possible with non visible electromagnetic radiation such as infrared or ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation. In yet another example a stylus may include reflective portions that reflect light or other electromagnetic radiation emitted by a computing device

Other features of a stylus may include magnetic ends that may be detected by a computing device buttons that allow for additional user inputs microphones that may record sound speakers that may play sounds haptic elements that may respond to user interactions lasers that may emit light in a particular direction or any other similar feature. Some features of such a stylus may require power and the stylus may include a battery or other power source. In one example a battery in a stylus may be charged inductively from a computing device that is in proximity with the stylus so that the stylus recharges as it is used to provide inputs to a computing device.

In the embodiment shown in the lines on the touchscreen for the letters are thinner than the line on the touchscreen . This difference may be due to the use of different ends of the stylus with the touchscreen . This difference may be due to one or more configurable profiles associated with each of the ends of the stylus . The one of the first and second capacitive ends and that is used to touch touchscreen may be determined in a number of ways. In one example the computing device may be able to determine an orientation of the stylus . The computing device may include a camera of the computing device that may take an image of the stylus during operation and processing the image to determine which of the first and second capacitive ends and is used to touch touchscreen . In another example the stylus may include a characteristic such as a magnet near one of the first and second capacitive ends and which may be detected by the computing device to determine which of the first and second capacitive ends and is used to touch touchscreen . In another example the stylus may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope an accelerometer and the like that may be used to determine orientation of the first and second capacitive ends and with respect to the computing device and the stylus may send an indication of the orientation to the computing device via a wireless communication link such as a Bluetooth communication link a near field communication NFC link a WiFi communication link and the like. In yet another example the first and second capacitive ends and may have different sizes such as in the case of the first and second capacitive ends and of stylus in . The touchscreen may be able to sense the different sizes of the first and second capacitive ends and to determine which of the first and second capacitive ends and is used to touch touchscreen . Any number of other ways could be used to determine which of the first and second capacitive ends and is used to touch touchscreen . The computing device may interpret the uses of the first and second capacitive ends and as different types of user inputs such as the thin lines of letters and the thick line .

While depict user inputs in the form of letters and a line many other user inputs are possible. A stylus may be used to select a group of items such as files songs and the like. A stylus may be used to make selections such as selecting a particular file or song selecting an option from a list of options and the like. In one example the first capacitive end of stylus may be used to copy text and or files and the second capacitive end of stylus may be used to paste the copies text and or files. In another example the first capacitive end of stylus may be used to input information such as text lines and the like and the second capacitive end of stylus may be used to navigate such as by scrolling zooming and the like.

In an aspect one or more of the inserts may have physical properties that are different from other inserts . For example one or more inserts may be formed from a material having a coefficient of friction length width shape and the like that is different from another of the inserts . The inserts may be formed from various materials and may have various physical properties. As a further example the identifier associated with a particular insert may represent information relating to the physical properties of the insert . In this way the physical properties can be selected to visually or physically more closely associate a particular insert with a particular real world input instrument such as a paint brush a pen a marker and so on.

As shown in the touchscreen input device is in the form of a dual end stylus with a first capacitive end and a second capacitive end . As an example the ends may comprise separate configurable inserts . The touchscreen input device also includes a wireless communication device . The wireless communication device may comprise a processor for executing operations beyond communication. The wireless communication device may be a Bluetooth transceiver a WiFi transceiver an NFC transceiver or transmitter a radio frequency identification RFID transceiver or transmitter or any other type of wireless communication device. In some embodiments such as in the case of a Bluetooth transceiver or a WiFi transceiver the wireless communication device may be a powered device that received power from a battery or other power source in touchscreen input device . In such a case the power source in touchscreen input device may be an inductively chargeable power source that is charged via an indication field generated by the computing device . In other embodiments the wireless communication device may be a passive device such as an NFC transmitter or an RFID transmitter which does not require a power source on the touchscreen input device .

The computing device includes a touchscreen and a wireless communication device . The first and second capacitive ends and of the touchscreen input device may be used to provide inputs to the touchscreen . Wireless communication device may be a Bluetooth transceiver a WiFi transceiver an NFC transceiver or receiver a radio frequency identification RFID transceiver or receiver or any other type of wireless communication device. The wireless communication device of the touchscreen input device may send a wireless signal to the wireless communication device . The wireless signal may carry an identifier of the touchscreen input device e.g. which may be defined by the configurable insert to the computing device . The touchscreen input device may be operable to send the wireless signal at particular times such as when the touchscreen input device is brought into proximity with the computing device when one of the first and second capacitive ends or of the touchscreen input device is brought into contact with the touchscreen of the computing device and the like. In an aspect the identifier of the touchscreen input device may be associated with a particular configurable profile. As such the computing device may respond to the touchscreen input device based on the settings established in the configurable profile. In an aspect one or more of a tactile audible and visual feedback may be implemented via the computing device and or the touchscreen input device based on the configurable profile.

The computing device may have configuration information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device . The configuration information may be associated with or defined by a particular user of the touchscreen input device . For example the computing device may include particular settings that may be set when the computing device receives the identifier of the touchscreen input device . If those settings had been defined by a user of the touchscreen input device the user may have those settings set merely by the computing device recognizing the identifier of the user s touchscreen input device . Other types of configuration information may be used by computing device when the computing device receives the identifier of the touchscreen input device .

After receiving the wireless signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device the computing device may send a signal via the network to the one or more servers . The network may include one or more of a wireless network such as a WiFi network or cellular data network and a wired network. The network may include in part the Internet a wide area network or a local area network. The signal may include the identifier of the touchscreen input device . The one or more servers may have configuration information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device . For example the user may have registered the identifier of the touchscreen input device with the user s account on the one or more servers . The user could also provide the one or more servers with configuration information to be provided to computing devices when the one or more servers receive an identifier of the touchscreen input device from the devices. The configuration information may include settings for controlling a sensory feedback of the touchscreen input device and or the computing device .

A plurality of inserts may be selectively received by the touchscreen input device . As such each other inserts may have an identifier associated therewith that can be transmitted via the wireless signal to identify the touchscreen input device . If the first computing device includes any configuration information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device the first computing device may implement changes indicated by the configuration information. Such changes may include modification of sensory feedback such as tactile visual and audio feedback. Such changes may include modification of operational characteristics of the touchscreen input device and its interaction with first computing device . For example the configuration information may determine an operation mode of the touchscreen input device such as a paint mode pen mode highlight mode cut and paste mode selection mode and the like. Other operations can be configured by the identifier and associated configuration information. The first computing device may also send a signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device to the one or more servers via the network .

The one or more servers may have configuration information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device . For example the user may have registered the identifier of the touchscreen input device with the user s account on the one or more servers . The user could also provide the one or more servers with configuration information to be provided to computing devices when the one or more servers receive an identifier of the touchscreen input device from the devices. The configuration information may include settings owned content and or one or more actions that may be performed as described above. The one or more servers may determine configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the first computing device . The one or more servers may send a signal via the network to the first computing device indicating the configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the first computing device .

The one or more servers may also determine whether the first computing device is owned by a user associated with the touchscreen input device . For example in addition to registering the identifier of the touchscreen input device with the user s account on the one or more servers the user may also have registered the first computing device with the user s account on the one or more servers as being a computing device owned by the user. If the one or more servers determine that the first computing device is owned by a user associated with the touchscreen input device the one or more servers may include in the signal to the first computing device an indication of additional actions that may be performed by the user. For example the additional actions may include an ability for the user to set configuration information on the one or more servers to make content or text on the first computing device available for use by the touchscreen input device on other computing devices and the like. The additional actions may include any number of other actions that could be performed by the user on a computing device owned by the user.

The user may use the touchscreen input device to interact with the first computing device . After using the touchscreen input device to interface with the first computing device the touchscreen input device may be used to interface with the second computing device . When the touchscreen input device is in proximity with the second computing device it may send a wireless signal that includes an identifier of the touchscreen input device to the second computing device . The identifier of the touchscreen input device may be associated with a configurable insert e.g. nib received by the touchscreen input device .

If the second computing device includes any configuration information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device the second computing device may implement changes indicated by the configuration information. Such changes may include modification of sensory feedback such as tactile visual and audio feedback. Such changes may include modification of operational characteristics of the touchscreen input device and its interaction with second computing device . For example the configuration information may determine an operation mode of the touchscreen input device such as a paint mode pen mode highlight mode cut and paste mode selection mode and the like. Other operations can be configured by the identifier and associated configuration information. The second computing device may also send a signal with the identifier of the touchscreen input device to the one or more servers via the network .

The one or more servers one or more servers may determine configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the second computing device . The one or more servers may also determine whether the second computing device is owned by the user of the touchscreen input device . The one or more servers may send a signal via the network to the second computing device indicating the configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the second computing device . Whether configuration information is applicable to the second computing device may be based at least in part on whether the one or more servers determines that the second computing device is owned by the user of the touchscreen input device . The one or more servers may send a signal via the network to the second computing device indicating the configuration information that is associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device and that is applicable to the second computing device .

In an aspect the touchscreen input device may be configured to interact with both of the first computing device and the second computing device in a joint configuration. For example the touchscreen input device may be configured to interact with the first computing device as a paintbrush and canvas respectively. As such the touchscreen input device may be used to apply programmatic graphics to the screen of the first computing device . Additionally the second computing device may be configured to supplemental or complement the programmatic operations of the first computing device .

In an embodiment of the supplement or compliment to the programmatic operations of the first computing device the touchscreen input device may contact or come within a threshold proximity of pre defined portions of the second computing device to change an attribute of the configuration information associated with the touchscreen input device and its interaction with the first computing device . As a further example the second computing device may be configured as a painter s palette e.g. a painter s palette to allow a user to maneuver the touchscreen input device to portions of the second computing device to change or select a color attribute associated with the touchscreen input device . As such when the touchscreen input device is brought back into proximity of the first computing device the updated color associated with the paintbrush feature of the touchscreen input device may be programmatically applied to the first computing device . In this way the touchscreen input device may interact with the second computing device to modify configurations of the touchscreen input device that may be applied to interactions between the touchscreen input device and the first computing device .

Although an example of a paintbrush and painter s palette is described it is understood that other programmatic operations may be used for other configurations of multiple computing devices such as a configuration in which the touchscreen input device emulates a fountain pen the first computing device emulates a writing surface and the second computing device emulates an inkwell.

In an aspect the configurations of the touchscreen input device may include a programmatic deterioration effect. As an example an operational profile may comprise settings to facilitate the deterioration effect. The operational profile may be stored remotely from the touchscreen input device such as at the servers . When the touchscreen input device begins to interact with the a computing device such as the first computing device the one or more servers may send the signal via the network to the first computing device indicating the configuration information that is associated with the operational profile of the touchscreen input device . A timer at the one or more servers may be referenced by the one or more servers to time stamp the transmission of the signal . Over a period of use the one or more servers may send additional signals via the network to the first computing device to update the configuration information that is associated with the operational profile of the touchscreen input device . As such the operation of the touchscreen input device may be modified to emulate the deterioration effect. For example when the touchscreen input device interacts with the first computing device the first computing device can access or receive the updated configuration information from the servers and can provide a visual feedback based at least in part on the updated configuration information. Over a continued time of interaction the programmatic visual feedback of the first computing device can fade in intensity as the touchscreen input device as a function of time. As a further example the deterioration effect may be reset to zero manually or based on a predefined event such as a user selection or gesture.

The deterioration effect may be applied to programmatic graphics e.g. paint where the input device is configured as a paintbrush or ink where the input device is configured as a fountain pen from the touchscreen input device begins to fade over time to emulate e.g. the effect of a real paintbrush running out of paint or a fountain pen running out of ink during use. To that end the touchscreen input device may be configured to contact the second computing device to cause the virtual paint of the touchscreen input device to behave in a manner to emulate the effect e.g. of a real paintbrush being replenished by dabbling it in real paint or a fountain pen in an inkwell.

As another example the select one of the configurable inserts may comprise multiple conductive bands disposed on a periphery thereof and representing the identifier . The conductive bands may be detected by electromagnetic sensors disposed in the touchscreen input device and configured to sense a conductive response caused by the conductive bands to determine the represented identifier. As another example the select one of the configurable inserts may comprise multiple graphical bands such as a barcode disposed on a periphery thereof and representing the identifier . The graphical bands may be detected by optical sensors disposed in the touchscreen input device . In yet another example a mechanical feature such as grooves or ridges embedded in a surface of the insert can be used to represent the identifier . The mechanical feature may be detected by a mechanical or electromechanical tumbler system. Other mechanisms for communicating the identifier of a select one of the configurable inserts can be used. The identifier may also be a secure identifier. As an example touchscreen input device may comprise a security feature configured to authenticate a user of the stylus. As such operation of the touchscreen input device may be dependent on authentication of the user. Such authentication may comprise facial recognition fingerprint credential authentication voice print or other authentication techniques. Other mechanisms for communicating the identifier of a select one of the configurable inserts can be used.

In certain aspects the identifier may be associated with a configurable profile including information for controlling at least one operational feature of the identified configurable insert . Since the profile is configurable a single identifier may be reconfigured to represent different operational settings. For example a first setting may be a default setting for using the touchscreen input device as a stylus for selection and manipulation of images on the computing device . Various settings of the configurable profile may comprise a configuration of a program executing via the computing device . For example a paint program executing via the computing device may be configured to recognize the touchscreen input device as an air brush tool under one setting but a pencil tool under another setting and a paint brush under yet another setting. Each setting may relate to various features such as frictional haptics that emulate a friction model visual feedback such as color line weight and line style pressure feedback controlling an amount of pressure required to cause certain operations to occur audio feedback and or programmatic features of a particular program executing via the computing device .

In certain aspects the profile associated with touchscreen input device e.g. dependent or independent of the configurable insert received by the touchscreen input device may be changed. For example the configurable profile may be changed by selectively cycling through a predetermined group of profile settings. As another example a button switch slider or other user engageable mechanism may be disposed on the touchscreen input device which allows a user to select a profile from the group of stored profiles. The configurable profile may also be changed by switching out the inserted configurable insert with another of the plurality of configurable inserts . Although each of the configurable inserts may have a default configurable profile associated therewith such configurable profiles may be modified and stored such that the modified profiles can be recalled at a subsequent time or by subsequent devices interacting with the touchscreen input device .

As more clearly shown in a sensor may be disposed in the main body and configured to detect the identifier associated with the one of the plurality of configurable inserts while the one of the plurality of configurable inserts is disposed in the main body . As an example the sensor may be or comprise electrical contacts configured to align with a portion of the configurable insert while the configurable insert is disposed in the main body . The electrical contacts may be configured to operate similarly to a tip ring sleeve in that each conductive band of the configurable insert may be detected by the aligned electrical contacts . The presence or absence of any particular conductive band of the configurable insert may corresponds to binary designation e.g. 1 or 0 to represent the identifier . As a further example the sensor may be or comprise an optical detector configured to align with a portion of the configurable insert while the configurable insert is disposed in the main body . The optical detector may be configured to operated similarly to a barcode reader or camera in that each graphical band of the configurable insert may be detected by the aligned optical detector . The pattern of the graphical bands of the configurable insert may corresponds the identifier . The identifier may represent other information about the configurable insert such as manufacturer or manufacture date and or physical properties such as color material and size for example. Other information can be represented by the identifier of each of the configurable inserts .

In an aspect a sensory feedback element may be disposed in the main body and may be configured to provide one or more of a tactile audible and visual feedback via the touchscreen input device . The sensory feedback element may be disposed remotely from the touchscreen input device and may be configured to provide a feedback via other devices. As an example the feedback provided may be based upon the settings of a configurable profile associated with the configurable insert currently inserted in the touchscreen input device . As the settings of the configurable profile are modified the feedback provided by the sensory feedback element may also be modified.

In an aspect a processor may be disposed in the main body and may be and in communication with the sensor and sensory feedback element . The processor may be configured to receive information from the sensor relating to the detected identifier . The processor may be configured to determine the configurable profile associated with the detected identifier . The processor may be configured to cause the sensory feedback element to provide the one or more of the tactile audible and visual feedback based on the configurable profile.

In an aspect the configuration device may be configured to receive at least one of the configurable inserts . As an example the configuration device may be configured to releasable secure a plurality of the configurable inserts . As more clearly shown in the configuration device may comprise at least one channel for releaseably securing at least one of the configurable inserts to a body of the configuration device . A securing mechanisms can be configured to slideably engage a portion of the body of the configuration device to facilitate a movement of the configurable insert relative to the body of the configuration device while the configurable insert is disposed in the channel . The securing mechanisms may be configured to selectively engage or release the configurable insert . The selective engagement or release of the configurable insert may be based on a wireless communication between the touchscreen input device and the configuration device . The selective engagement or release of the configurable insert may be based on a physical hardware setting of own or more of the touchscreen input device and the configuration device . Other configurations and mechanisms may be used to facilities the storage and removal of the configurable insert in the configuration device .

As more clearly shown in the configuration device may comprise a processor a user interface and or a plurality of tell tales . In an aspect the processor may be configured to determine which of the plurality of configurable inserts are disposed in the configuration device and which are removed. As an example the processor may be configured to detect the identifiers associated with each of the configurable inserts to determine whether the configurable inserts are disposed in the configuration device . The processor may be configured to generate store and or modify one or more of the configurable profiles associated with the configurable inserts . As an example while a select one of the configurable inserts is inserted in the touchscreen input device the processor may be configured to modify the configurable profile associated with the select one of the configurable inserts . As a further example the user may interact with the user interface to modify the configurable profile associated with the select one of the configurable inserts . The user interface may provide feedback to a user relating to the configurable profiles and may receive inputs from the user. As an example various settings relating to the configurable profile may be presented to the user via the user interface and changes to the settings may be made via the user interface or other interface such as via the computing device in communication with the configuration device . In certain aspects one or more tell tales or identifiers may be disposed on the configuration device to provide an indication to the user of a particular configuration profile default profile and or settings that are currently active. As the profile of a particular configurable insert changes the tell tales may be modified e.g. selectively illuminated to indicate such a change to the user. Any indicators or interfaces may be used to communicate information relating to the configurable inserts and or the associated configurable profiles. In certain aspects a gesture of the touchscreen input device may be used to configure the profile associated with the configurable insert disposed in touchscreen input device . As an example predefined movement may be executed to cause the profile to change configuration. As a further example the movement may relate to the configuration device . Similar to a fountain pen being moved to an ink well to replenish ink the touchscreen input device may be moved toward the configuration device and may contact the configuration device or come within a predefined proximity thereof. As such the ink well movement gesture may automatically configure the profile of the configurable insert disposed in touchscreen input device . Other gestures or mechanism may be used to configure the configurable insert disposed in touchscreen input device .

In an aspect the touchscreen input device and or the configuration device may send a wireless signal to the computing device . The wireless signals may be a Bluetooth signal a WiFi signal an NFC signal an RFID signal or any other type of wireless signal. The wireless signal may carry an identifier e.g. identifier of the touchscreen input device to the computing device . The identifier of the touchscreen input device may be associated with one of the configurable inserts e.g. nib received by the touchscreen input device . The computing device may have configuration information e.g. configurable profile associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device . The configuration information may be stored remotely from the computing device and transmitted thereto. The configuration information may be associated with or defined by a particular user of the touchscreen input device . For example the computing device may include particular settings that may be set when the computing device receives the identifier of the touchscreen input device . If those settings had been defined by a user of the touchscreen input device the user may have those settings set merely by the computing device recognizing the identifier of the user s touchscreen input device . Other types of configuration information may be used by computing device when the computing device receives the identifier of the touchscreen input device .

At block the one or more computing nodes such as servers may receive or access an identifier of a touchscreen input device. Other computing nodes such as the computing devices may receive or access the identifier. The identifier of the touchscreen input device may be received or accessed via a wireless signal such as an NFC signal a Bluetooth signal a WiFi signal and the like. The identifier of the touchscreen input device may detected by one or more of an electrical contact and an optical sensor. The identifier of the touchscreen input device may be stored in the one or more computing nodes. For example the one or more computing nodes may have stored profile information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device configuration settings associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device touchscreen input device or any other type of settings.

At block a first operational profile associated with the detected identifier may be retrieved by the one or more computing nodes. The one or more computing nodes may transmit settings e.g. based on the first operational profile to computing devices to control the feedback based on the interaction of the touchscreen input device and the computing devices . In an aspect the first operational profile may be retrieved from a data store e.g. at the server based on the detected identifier. The datastore may be disposed remotely from the touchscreen input device or integrated with the touchscreen input device. As an example the detected identifier may be used as part of a query or look up to retrieve the stored first operational profile. As another example the detected identifier may be mapped or linked to a location of the first operational profile. The first operational profile may be a configurable profile and may include first settings for controlling at least one operational feature of the stylus and or a computing device configured to interact with the stylus. The one or more computing nodes may implement the first settings associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device. Implementing the first settings may include prompting the user to indicate whether the first settings should be applied on the one or more computing nodes or automatically applying the first settings in response to receiving the identifier of the touchscreen input device. The first settings may relate comprise a visual feedback setting an audio setting a tactile setting or a programmatic setting or a combination thereof.

At block a reconfiguration gesture may be detected by one or more sensors and information relating to the detection of the reconfiguration gesture may be received by the one or more computing nodes such as servers . The reconfiguration gesture may be detected based on predefined movement of the touchscreen input device a predefined proximity to a configuration device an interaction with a select portion of a configuration device a button press an interaction with a mechanical interface an audible input a threshold temperature a threshold pressure an orientation of the stylus or a location of the stylus or a combination of the foregoing examples and so on thereof. Various sensors such as gyroscopes optical sensors proximity sensors and the like may be configured to measure a change in the position of the touchscreen input device. For example the reconfiguration gesture may comprise inverting the touchscreen input device. As such when the touchscreen input device is moved from a normal position to an inverted position the gyroscope or other sensor can detect the inversion. As another example the reconfiguration gesture may comprise contacting the touchscreen input device with a designated portion of a touchscreen. As a further example similar to a fountain pen being moved to an ink well to replenish ink the touchscreen input device may be moved toward a computing device e.g. configuration device and may contact the computing device or come within a predefined proximity thereof. As such the ink well movement gesture may be detected by one or more sensors disposed in the touchscreen input device or the computing device.

In certain aspects the reconfigure gesture may be implemented using the touchscreen input device. As an example the reconfiguration gesture may be used to configure the first operational profile associated with a configurable insert disposed in touchscreen input device. As another example predefined movement may be executed to cause the profile to change configuration. As a further example the predefined movement is defined relative to a computing device configured to interact with the stylus. Other gestures or mechanism may be used to configure the configurable insert disposed in touchscreen input device.

At block a second operational profile associated with the detected identifier may be received or accessed by one or more computing nodes such as the servers . The second operational profile may be applied to control a feedback based on the interaction of the touchscreen input device and the computing devices . The second operational profile may be accessed or received in response to the detection of the reconfiguration gesture. In an aspect the second operational profile may be retrieved from a data store based at least in part on the detection of the reconfiguration gesture. The datastore may be disposed remotely from the touchscreen input device or integrated with the touchscreen input device. As an example the once the reconfiguration gesture is detected then the second operational profile can be automatically accessed such as via an automatic download of the second operational profile from the datastore.

The second operational profile may be a configurable profile and may include second settings for controlling at least one operational feature of the stylus. The one or more computing nodes may implement the second settings associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device. Implementing the second settings may include prompting the user to indicate whether the second settings should be applied on the one or more computing nodes or automatically applying the second settings in response to receiving the identifier of the touchscreen input device. The first settings may comprise a visual feedback setting an audio setting a tactile setting or a programmatic setting or a combination thereof. As an example one or more of the first operational profile and the second operational profile further include information for controlling at least one operational feature of a computing device configured to interact with the stylus. Operational features can comprise at least one of a line width color graphical texture color decay pressure response curve interface layout mapping of physical location to screen location position mode program specific effects program specific behavior or tool type. As a further example one or more of the first operational profile and the second operational profile further includes information for controlling at least one operational feature of a program executing via the computing device.

At block the second operational profile may be associated with the detected identifier by the servers. As an example associating the second operational profile to the identifier may comprise logically mapping or linking the second operational profile to the identifier. Mapping may comprise the modification of metadata and or a database relating to the second operation profile. As such when the identifier is subsequently detected the second operational profile may be automatically accessed to control operations of at least the touchscreen input device.

At block the one or more computing nodes such as servers may access or receive an identifier of a touchscreen input device. The identifier of the touchscreen input device may be received or accessed via a wireless signal such as an NFC signal a Bluetooth signal a WiFi signal and the like. The identifier of the touchscreen input device may detected by one or more of an electrical contact and an optical sensor. The identifier of the touchscreen input device may be stored in the one or more computing nodes. For example the one or more computing nodes may have stored profile information associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device configuration settings associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device touchscreen input device or any other type of settings.

At block an operational profile associated with the detected identifier may be accessed or received by the servers for example from a datastore disposed locally or remotely to the touchscreen input device. As an example the detected identifier may be used as part of a query or look up to retrieve the stored first operational profile. As another example the detected identifier may be mapped or linked to a location of the first operational profile. The operational profile may be a configurable profile and may include first settings for controlling at least one operational feature of the stylus. The one or more computing nodes may implement the first settings associated with the identifier of the touchscreen input device. Implementing the first settings may include prompting the user to indicate whether the first settings should be applied on the one or more computing nodes or automatically applying the first settings in response to receiving the identifier of the touchscreen input device. The first settings may relate comprise a visual feedback setting an audio setting a tactile setting or a programmatic setting or a combination thereof. The first settings may relate to at least one of a line width color graphical texture color decay pressure response curve interface layout mapping of physical location to screen location position mode program specific effects program specific behavior or tool type.

At block the operational profile may be reconfigured by the servers . In certain aspects the reconfiguration of the operational profile may be implemented using the touchscreen input device. As an example one or more of the first settings may be manually modified to result in second settings different from the first settings. Various events may be defined to trigger the modification of the first settings resulting in reconfiguration of the operational profile. Such events may comprise a time period a particular position of the touchscreen input device a particular movement of the touchscreen input device and the like. Such events may be detected by one or more sensors such as proximity sensors optical sensors gyroscopic sensors timers etc. At block a reconfiguration of the operational profile may be detected. In certain aspects the reconfiguration of the operational profile may be implemented using the touchscreen input device. As an example one or more of the first settings may be modified to result in second settings different from the first settings.

At block the reconfigured operational profile may be stored by the servers . As an example the reconfigured operational profile may be stored in a datastore where the original operational profile is stored. At block the stored reconfigured operational profile may be associated with the detected identifier. As such when the identifier is subsequently detected the reconfigured operational profile may be accessed to control operations of at least the touchscreen input device.

Computing device may also include one or more hard buttons integrated into housing . In one embodiment the one or more hard buttons may include a single button such as a home button or a power button. In another embodiment the one or more hard buttons may include a small set of buttons such as a power button a home button and a back button. In yet another embodiment the one or more hard buttons may include a large set of buttons such as a full QWERTY keyboard a keypad and the like. The one or more hard buttons may be part of the user interaction system of the computing device .

Computing device may also include a speaker configured to emit sounds and a microphone configured to receive sounds. In the embodiment where computing device is a cell phone speaker and microphone may be used to carry on a telephone call. In one embodiment speaker may be configured to play sounds associated with graphics displayed on display such as during play of audiovisual material on computing device . In another embodiment microphone may receive audio sounds which the computing device may interpret as user inputs. In addition while not depicted in computing device may also include an audio port which may be connected to an external microphone and or an external speaker or speakers. Computing device may send and receive audio signals via the audio port and interpret the received audio signals via the audio port just as it would interpret audio signals generated from sounds received by the microphone .

Computing device may also include one or more optical devices . In one embodiment an optical device may include an optical sensor such as an infrared sensor a visible light sensor and or any device that may sense light and or electromagnetic energy. The detection of light and or electromagnetic energy may be used by the computing device to control components of the computing device such as a level of light emitted by a backlight of display illumination of one or more hard buttons and any other aspect of computing device . In another embodiment an optical device may include an image capturing device such as a digital camera. An image capturing device may include any device configured to capture an image such as a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS active pixel sensor APS and a charged coupled device CCD . Images captured by one or more optical devices may be stored by the computing device as individual images or as a series of images in a video. Individual images and or video images may be processed by computing device and interpreted as user inputs. While depicts one of the optical devices pointing in the same direction as the display it is possible for computing device to have any number of optical devices and it is possible for one or more optical devices to be pointed in other directions such as a rear facing camera pointing in the opposite direction of display .

Computing device may include a power source . Power source may provide power to any or all of the other components in computing device . As depicted in power source may be connected to and provide power to each of processor memory display network interface and user interface . Power source may be any type of power source such as one or more disposable batteries a rechargeable battery and the like. In the embodiment where computing device is a portable device such as a laptop computer a tablet computer a cell phone a hand held computer and the like the power source may need to provide power for a period of time between recharging of the power source . When power source is not connected to an external power source computing device is drawing on the power stored in power source . The capacity of power source may vary with the type and size of power source . The rate at which power source discharges depends on a number of factors such as which components of computing device are active how much power each of the active components are drawing from power source and the like.

Each type or configuration of computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity. Customers may choose to allocate a number of small processing resources as web servers and or one large processing resource as a database server for example.

Data center may include servers which may be referred herein singularly as server or in the plural as servers that provide computing resources. These resources may be available as bare metal resources or as virtual machine instances and which may be referred herein singularly as virtual machine instance or in the plural as virtual machine instances . The availability of virtualization technologies for computing hardware has provided benefits for providing large scale computing resources for customers and allowing computing resources to be efficiently and securely shared between multiple customers. For example virtualization technologies may allow a physical computing device to be shared among multiple users by providing each user with one or more virtual machine instances hosted by the physical computing device. A virtual machine instance may be a software emulation of a particular physical computing system that acts as a distinct logical computing system. Such a virtual machine instance provides isolation among multiple operating systems sharing a given physical computing resource. Furthermore some virtualization technologies may provide virtual resources that span one or more physical resources such as a single virtual machine instance with multiple virtual processors that spans multiple distinct physical computing systems.

Referring to communications network may for example be a publicly accessible network of linked networks and possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet. In other embodiments communications network may be a private network such as a corporate or university network that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users. In still other embodiments communications network may include one or more private networks with access to and or from the Internet.

Communications network may provide access to computers . User computers may be computers utilized by users or other customers of data center . For instance user computer or may be a server a desktop or laptop personal computer a tablet computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA an e book reader a game console a set top box or any other computing device capable of accessing data center . User computer or may connect directly to the Internet e.g. via a cable modem or a Digital Subscriber Line DSL . Although only two user computers and are depicted it should be appreciated that there may be multiple user computers.

User computers may also be utilized to configure aspects of the computing resources provided by data center . In this regard data center might provide a gateway or web interface through which aspects of its operation may be configured through the use of a web browser application program executing on user computer . Alternately a stand alone application program executing on user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by data center for performing the configuration operations. Other mechanisms for configuring the operation of various web services available at data center might also be utilized.

Servers shown in may be standard servers configured appropriately for providing the computing resources described above and may provide computing resources for executing one or more web services and or applications. In one embodiment the computing resources may be virtual machine instances . In the example of virtual machine instances each of the servers may be configured to execute an instance manager or which may be referred herein singularly as instance manager or in the plural as instance managers capable of executing the virtual machine instances . The instance managers may be a virtual machine monitor VMM or another type of program configured to enable the execution of virtual machine instances on server for example. As discussed above each of the virtual machine instances may be configured to execute all or a portion of an application.

It should be appreciated that although the embodiments disclosed above discuss the context of virtual machine instances other types of implementations may be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For example the embodiments disclosed herein might also be utilized with computing systems that do not utilize virtual machine instances.

In the example data center shown in a router may be utilized to interconnect the servers and . Router may also be connected to gateway which is connected to communications network . Router may be connected to one or more load balancers and alone or in combination may manage communications within networks in data center for example by forwarding packets or other data communications as appropriate based on characteristics of such communications e.g. header information including source and or destination addresses protocol identifiers size processing requirements etc. and or the characteristics of the private network e.g. routes based on network topology etc. . It will be appreciated that for the sake of simplicity various aspects of the computing systems and other devices of this example are illustrated without showing certain conventional details. Additional computing systems and other devices may be interconnected in other embodiments and may be interconnected in different ways.

It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. These network topologies and devices should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

It should also be appreciated that data center described in is merely illustrative and that other implementations might be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality disclosed herein might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art. It should also be appreciated that a server gateway or other computing device may comprise any combination of hardware or software that may interact and perform the described types of functionality including without limitation desktop or other computers database servers network storage devices and other network devices PDAs tablets cellphones wireless phones pagers electronic organizers Internet appliances television based systems e.g. using set top boxes and or personal digital video recorders and various other consumer products that include appropriate communication capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated modules may in some embodiments be combined in fewer modules or distributed in additional modules. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated modules may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

In at least some embodiments a server that implements a portion or all of one or more of the technologies described herein may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. depicts a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. In the illustrated embodiment computing device includes one or more processors and or which may be referred herein singularly as a processor or in the plural as the processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computing device further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computing device may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing one or more desired functions such as those methods techniques and data described above are shown stored within system memory as code and data .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripherals in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computing device and other device or devices attached to a network or networks such as other computer systems or devices for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as types of Ethernet networks for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs storage area networks or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for implementing embodiments of the corresponding methods and apparatus. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include non transitory storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computing device via I O interface . A non transitory computer accessible storage medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. that may be included in some embodiments of computing device as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as those that may be implemented via network interface . Portions or all of multiple computing devices such as those illustrated in may be used to implement the described functionality in various embodiments for example software components running on a variety of different devices and servers may collaborate to provide the functionality. In some embodiments portions of the described functionality may be implemented using storage devices network devices or special purpose computer systems in addition to or instead of being implemented using general purpose computer systems. The term computing device as used herein refers to at least all these types of devices and is not limited to these types of devices.

A compute node which may be referred to also as a computing node may be implemented on a wide variety of computing environments such as commodity hardware computers virtual machines web services computing clusters and computing appliances. Any of these computing devices or environments may for convenience be described as compute nodes.

A network set up by an entity such as a company or a public sector organization to provide one or more web services such as various types of cloud based computing or storage accessible via the Internet and or other networks to a distributed set of clients may be termed a provider network. Such a provider network may include numerous data centers hosting various resource pools such as collections of physical and or virtualized computer servers storage devices networking equipment and the like needed to implement and distribute the infrastructure and web services offered by the provider network. The resources may in some embodiments be offered to clients in various units related to the web service such as an amount of storage for storage processing capability for processing as instances as sets of related services and the like. A virtual computing instance may for example comprise one or more servers with a specified computational capacity which may be specified by indicating the type and number of CPUs the main memory size and so on and a specified software stack e.g. a particular version of an operating system which may in turn run on top of a hypervisor .

A number of different types of computing devices may be used singly or in combination to implement the resources of the provider network in different embodiments including general purpose or special purpose computer servers storage devices network devices and the like. In some embodiments a client or user may be provided direct access to a resource instance e.g. by giving a user an administrator login and password. In other embodiments the provider network operator may allow clients to specify execution requirements for specified client applications and schedule execution of the applications on behalf of the client on execution platforms such as application server instances Java virtual machines JVMs general purpose or special purpose operating systems platforms that support various interpreted or compiled programming languages such as Ruby Perl Python C C and the like or high performance computing platforms suitable for the applications without for example requiring the client to access an instance or an execution platform directly. A given execution platform may utilize one or more resource instances in some implementations in other implementations multiple execution platforms may be mapped to a single resource instance.

In many environments operators of provider networks that implement different types of virtualized computing storage and or other network accessible functionality may allow customers to reserve or purchase access to resources in various resource acquisition modes. The computing resource provider may provide facilities for customers to select and launch the desired computing resources deploy application components to the computing resources and maintain an application executing in the environment. In addition the computing resource provider may provide further facilities for the customer to quickly and easily scale up or scale down the numbers and types of resources allocated to the application either manually or through automatic scaling as demand for or capacity requirements of the application change. The computing resources provided by the computing resource provider may be made available in discrete units which may be referred to as instances. An instance may represent a physical server hardware platform a virtual machine instance executing on a server or some combination of the two. Various types and configurations of instances may be made available including different sizes of resources executing different operating systems OS and or hypervisors and with various installed software applications runtimes and the like. Instances may further be available in specific availability zones representing a logical region a fault tolerant region a data center or other geographic location of the underlying computing hardware for example. Instances may be copied within an availability zone or across availability zones to improve the redundancy of the instance and instances may be migrated within a particular availability zone or across availability zones. As one example the latency for client communications with a particular server in an availability zone may be less than the latency for client communications with a different server. As such an instance may be migrated from the higher latency server to the lower latency server to improve the overall client experience.

In some embodiments the provider network may be organized into a plurality of geographical regions and each region may include one or more availability zones. An availability zone which may also be referred to as an availability container in turn may comprise one or more distinct locations or data centers configured in such a way that the resources in a given availability zone may be isolated or insulated from failures in other availability zones. That is a failure in one availability zone may not be expected to result in a failure in any other availability zone. Thus the availability profile of a resource instance is intended to be independent of the availability profile of a resource instance in a different availability zone. Clients may be able to protect their applications from failures at a single location by launching multiple application instances in respective availability zones. At the same time in some implementations inexpensive and low latency network connectivity may be provided between resource instances that reside within the same geographical region and network transmissions between resources of the same availability zone may be even faster .

Thus as set forth above a content provider may provide content to a destination over a network such as the Internet using for example streaming content delivery techniques. A content provider may for example provide a content delivery service that may reside on one or more servers. The service may be scalable to meet the demands of one or more customers and may increase or decrease in capability based on the number and type of incoming client requests. The content delivery service may in some cases process a content item in parallel across multiple nodes of the content delivery service. This may be done in one embodiment to reduce the latency for rendering the content item. Portions of the content delivery service may also be migrated to be placed in a position of reduced latency with a requesting client. In some cases the content provider may determine an edge of a system or network associated with the content provider that is physically and or logically closest to a requesting client. The content provider may then for example spin up migrate resources or otherwise employ components associated with the determined edge for interacting with requests from the client. Such an edge determination process may in some cases provide an efficient technique for identifying and employing components that are well suited to interact with a particular client and may in some embodiments reduce the latency for communications between a content provider and one or more clients.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers or computer processors. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory optical disc and or the like. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto may be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

It will also be appreciated that various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used and that these items or portions of thereof may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other ways such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission media including wireless based and wired cable based media and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Conditional language used herein such as among others may could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

