---

title: Updating point of interest data using georeferenced transaction data
abstract: Georeferenced transaction data is harvested (“crowd-sourced”) from client devices and sent to a network-based map service. The map service performs cluster analysis on location data points in the harvested data, resulting in one or more clusters representing local densities of transaction occurrences. Data vectors including supplemental data are obtained from one or more vendors. Location data points included in the data vectors are compared to center coordinates of the one or more clusters and the closest matching cluster/vector pair provides a mapping to POI data in a POI database. The mapped POI data is updated with the supplemental data. In some implementations, transaction timestamps in the harvested data are used to estimate the business hours of a business POI.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646318&OS=09646318&RS=09646318
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09646318
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140930
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 006 021 entitled Updating Point of Interest Data Using Georeferenced Transaction Data filed May 30 2014 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Web based mapping services provide satellite imagery street maps and street view perspectives to vehicle navigation systems and location aware client devices e.g. smart phones computer tablets wearable computers including providing services such as route planning and turn by turn directions. Web based mapping services maintain a map database of map data representing road networks and associated features such as points of interest. A point of interest POI is a specific point location that someone may find useful or interesting including but not limited to historical landmarks parks museums hospitals schools and businesses. POIs in map datum typically include latitude and longitude of the POI. A name or description for the POI may also be included in the map datum. Navigation applications typically use icons to represent different categories of POIs on a map graphically.

Commercial POI collections can be purchased by map service providers on a subscription basis or obtained from a royalty free collection. Such POI collections may be inaccurate and or incomplete. Map service providers may have to rely on third party vendors to update their POI collections to correct for errors or to identify new POIs thus preventing map service providers from controlling the quantity and quality of the POI data served to client devices.

Georeferenced transaction data is harvested crowd sourced from client devices and sent to a network based map service. The map service performs cluster analysis on location data points in the harvested data resulting in one or more clusters representing local densities of transaction occurrences. Data vectors including supplemental data are obtained from one or more vendors. Location data points included in the data vectors are compared to center coordinates of the one or more clusters and the closest matching cluster vector pair provides a mapping to POI data in a POI database. The mapped POI data is updated with the supplemental data. In some implementations transaction timestamps in the harvested data are used to estimate the business hours of a business POI. In some implementations a process is disclosed for describing a cluster of data with a limited set of parameters.

In some implementations a method comprises receiving at a network based service georeferenced transaction data harvested from wireless devices during transaction events performing cluster analysis on the georeferenced transaction data the cluster analysis resulting in one or more clusters associated with the georeferenced transaction data mapping supplemental data to one of the one or more clusters and updating point of interest POI data with the supplemental data.

In some implementations a method comprises determining by a wireless device a location of the wireless device operating in a vicinity of a business performing a wireless financial transaction with the business receiving a non unique transaction description determining a time of the transaction sending a data log to a network based service the data log including the location of the wireless device the transaction data and the time of the transaction receiving point of interest POI data associated with the business where the POI data includes supplemental data associated with the business where the supplemental data is obtained by the network based service independent of the financial transaction with the business replacing the non unique transaction description with the supplemental data and displaying the supplemental data on the device.

Other implementations are directed to systems devices and non transitory computer readable storage mediums. Particular implementations disclosed herein provide one or more of the following advantages. A customer using a client device to perform a transaction at a business POI is provided with non cryptic business information e.g. business name street address rather than receiving a cryptic transaction description such as is typically provided on a credit card receipt.

The details of the disclosed implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages are apparent from the description drawings and claims.

Client devices can be any wireless communication device including but not limited to smart phones tablet computers and wearable computers. Map service can include one or more server computers and other infrastructure for communicating with client devices over wide area network . Map service can access database to read and write map data to support map services provided to client devices . For example database can include a road network model that represents features e.g. nodes links and areas and properties e.g. location coordinates shape addresses road class and speed range of road networks. Database can also store other data associated with the road network including but not limited to POIs. The road network model and POI data can be used by map service to provide various map services to applications running on client devices including but not limited to navigation friend tracking and other location based applications.

In addition to providing map services to client devices map service receives harvested or crowd sourced anonymous transaction data from client devices for use in updating POI data stored in database . The transaction data can be harvested by client devices operating in the vicinity of POI which can be associated with a business hereinafter referred to as business POI . For example POI can be a retail store where users of client devices can perform wireless financial transactions using wireless technology e.g. Near Field Communication NFC technology such as mobile payments.

In an example use scenario a user can scan a barcode e.g. QR code displayed on their smart phone with a barcode reader at a check out counter. Such wireless financial transactions are often documented with an electronic receipt sent to the client device that includes a non unique cryptic transaction description. The cryptic transaction description often does not provide a complete business name and or street address. For example a fictitious retail chain Acme Inc. may provide an electronic receipt with the cryptic transaction description ACM 2358. Such cryptic transaction descriptions are not meaningful to users. In the discussion that follows cryptic transaction descriptions collected at a point of sale will be referred to as Level One data or simply L1 data.

At the point of sale and assuming the user has opted in anonymous L1 data logs can be created by a daemon running on the device and sent to map service in a manner that is transparent to the user. In some implementations the L1 data logs include a non unique cryptic transaction description a location data point e.g. latitude longitude and corresponding location and transaction timestamps. At map service a search engine maps the non unique L1 cryptic transaction description to a unique POI identifier ID L1 POI ID using for example a look up table. The POI ID is used by the search engine to index a POI database to retrieve POI data as described in reference to . The POI data includes information about the business POI including but not limited to business name street address telephone number customer ratings e.g. Yelp ratings content e.g. digital photos video Web address and any other information associated with the business POI that may be of interest to a user. The POI data can be aggregated and conflated by map service from a number of data sources.

Harvested L1 data logs can be sent to system on a scheduled basis or in response to a trigger event. An example trigger event could be a transaction event e.g. a mobile payment event at a business location. Each L1 data log can include a location data point latitude longitude which can be determined by a global navigation satellite system GNSS receiver embedded in or coupled to the client device such as a Global Position System GPS receiver. The location data point can also be determined by trilateration of radio frequency RF signals from cell towers or beacons e.g. WiFi or Bluetooth beacons .

The harvested L1 data logs are received through client interface and processed by analytics module . In some implementations analytics module performs a cluster analysis on the L1 location data points included in a set of L1 data logs that include a common cryptic transaction description. An example cluster analysis algorithm is the k means algorithm. The k means algorithm calculates the centers latitude longitude of k clusters of L1 location data points and assigns each L1 location data point to a nearest cluster center in an iterative manner such that the squared distances of the L1 location data points from a nearest cluster center are minimized. The result of the k means algorithm is a set of k clusters of L1 location data points that have a common L1 cryptic transaction description. The center coordinates of each cluster are represented by a single L1 location data point e.g. mean latitude mean longitude . The cluster center coordinates can be stored in analytics database for further processing by map services module .

Vendor interface receives supplemental data from vendors. A vendor can be for example a business or a broker. The supplemental data can include but is not limited to business name and street address. In the description that follows supplemental data is also referred to as Level 2 or L2 data. In addition to business name and street address each L2 data hereinafter referred to as L2 data vector includes a cryptic transaction description and optionally geographic coordinates latitude longitude for the street address. L2 data vectors can be provided electronically to vendor interface for example by a data feed or delivered on a computer readable medium. In the latter case vendor interface represents a conceptual function rather than an electronic interface.

In some instances there may be multiple L2 data vectors that map to a single L1 data log due to the non uniqueness of the shared cryptic transaction data. For example a single non unique cryptic transaction description may be included in multiple L2 data vectors. This may occur for example if the business is a chain with multiple stores located within close proximity of each other creating a one to many mapping between L1 data clusters and L2 data vectors. To reduce the one to many mapping L1 L2 for i 1 to N where N 1 to a one to one mapping L1 L2 map services module reads the cluster data stored in analytics database and compares the cluster center coordinates of each of the k clusters to the location data point in each of the L2 data vectors. If the L2 data does not include location coordinates the business street address included in the L2 vector can be geocoded into latitude and longitude using for example a geographic information system GIS . The L2location data point that most closely matches the center coordinates of a cluster j for j 1 . . . k where j

In some implementations in the absence of L2 data fuzzy matching can be used to match L1 to an existing set of POIs L1 to POI name with a defined radius around the location of the transaction.

When at a different time another client device performs a transaction event the L1 cryptic transaction description is sent to map service where system uses the L1 POI ID mapping and in some cases a reasonably accurate location estimate for the POI to map the cryptic transaction description to a POI ID in POI database . To map the cryptic transaction description to a POI it is usually the case that both the L1 cryptic transaction description e.g. which includes a cryptic name of the business and reasonably accurate location data for the POI are needed to perform the L1 PO ID mapping because the cryptic transaction description may not be unique preventing lookup of POI data in the POI database without additional location context. In many cases the street address included in the L2 data vector is inaccurate so the POI data cannot be retrieved from the POI database without the benefit of harvested georeferenced data to improve the location accuracy of the POI.

The POI data indexed by the POI ID is updated with the supplemental data provided by the associated L2 data vector. System provides the L2 enriched POI data to client device where it can be displayed in a user interface of an application running on client device e.g. mobile payment application . The improved accuracy and or completeness of the L2 enriched POI data can then be used by other applications running on client device that may benefit from complete and accurate POI data e.g. navigation map application .

In some implementations process can begin by receiving at a server computer harvested L1 data from a plurality of client devices . In some implementations the harvested L1 data can include cryptic transaction descriptions and corresponding transaction timestamps. The harvested L1 data may also include a location of the client device and a corresponding location timestamp.

Process can continue by performing cluster analysis on location data points included in the harvested L1 data . For example an analytic module implemented on the server computer can perform a cluster analysis on the location data points using the k means clustering algorithm as described in reference to . The result of the cluster analysis includes clusters of location data points each having center coordinates represented by a latitude and longitude.

Process can continue by mapping one of many L2 data vectors to one of the L1 data clusters resulting in any one to one relationship between L1 and L2 data . For example location data points included in the L2 data vectors can be compared to the center coordinates of each cluster and the closest matching cluster can be selected for mapping to a POI database based on the comparison.

If the L1 data e.g. the cryptic transaction description is mapped to POI data in a POI database e.g. mapped to a POI ID then the POI data is updated with the supplemental data contained in the selected L2 data vector . If the L1 data is not mapped to POI data in the POI database then a new business POI can be added to the POI database and a new L1 to POI ID mapping is created in the L1 to POI ID table.

In some implementations the street address included in the POI data can be augmented with an L2 street address if available and cluster center coordinates based on the L2 L1 mapping .

In some implementations the transaction timestamps in the L1 data logs are used to estimate the business hours for the business . For example the server computer can perform a histogram analysis on the timestamps to determine a distribution of transactions timestamps over a desired time period e.g. a 24 hour time period as shown in .

As a result of process client devices performing transactions at the POI can now receive accurate and complete information for the transaction including an accurate and complete business name and street address and any other information included in the supplemental data.

In practice an L2 data vector may not include a location data point. In such a case clustering analysis may not be helpful. In some implementations if no location data points are included in an L2 data vector then the cryptic transaction descriptions in the L2 data vectors can be compared directly to the cryptic transaction descriptions included in the POI data in the POI database by string matching. If a one to one string match can be found then the matched POI data can be updated with the supplemental data included in the matched L2 data vector. Otherwise the POI data is not updated due to a high probability of error in the L2 to L1 data mapping.

If there are multiple cryptic transaction descriptions for a business and the string matching results in some but not all of the cryptic transaction descriptions being resolved to POI data then the unresolved cryptic transaction descriptions can be resolved to the POI data by first comparing the unresolved cryptic transaction descriptions with previously resolved cryptic transaction descriptions.

In some implementations the location and transaction timestamps can be blurred using 15 minute time windows for privacy reasons before the timestamps are sent to service . For example timestamps in the time window of 13 01 13 04 can be clamped to 13 00 and timestamps in the time window 13 05 13 14 can be clamped to 13 15 therefore blurring the true timestamps of the location and transaction. Also timestamps can be stored in a separate table from the location data. Using these techniques if the system knows what time a user made a purchase that purchase cannot be mapped to the location of that purchase. In some implementations short term logs are used to store individual transactions and long term logs are used to store aggregated transactions with a minimum density of individual transaction data to aggregate.

In some implementations in addition to updating a business name in the POI database other databases can be updated as desired including but not limited to street address information in a map database. For example the latitude and longitude of the street address 123 Main St of a business POI can be corrected regardless of or in addition to correcting the business name of the POI.

In the example shown the first row of the database table includes a cryptic transaction description ACM 2358. The transaction occurred at the location data point 37.53 latitude and 122.24 longitude Redwood City Calif. at time 13 12 military time where the location data was determined at time 13 04. For privacy reasons these timestamps were stored as 13 15 and 13 00 respectively using the 15 minute blurring time window previously described. Note that ACM 2358 can be mapped to a POI ID for indexing a POI database as described in reference to .

In the example shown the L1 cryptic transaction description ACM 2358 maps to POI ID 33421 row of table which includes the full and correct name of the business Acme Inc. and its street address 123 Main St Redwood City Calif. 94064 which was provided by an L2 data vector as described in reference to .

Sensors devices and subsystems may be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example motion sensor light sensor and proximity sensor may be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate orientation lighting and proximity functions of the device. For example in some implementations light sensor may be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of touch surface . In some implementations motion sensor e.g. an accelerometer gyros may be utilized to detect movement and orientation of the device. Accordingly display objects or media may be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape .

Other sensors may also be connected to peripherals interface such as a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

Location processor e.g. GPS receiver chip may be connected to peripherals interface to provide georeferencing. Electronic magnetometer e.g. an integrated circuit chip may also be connected to peripherals interface to provide data that may be used to determine the direction of magnetic North. Thus electronic magnetometer may be used with an electronic compass application.

Camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor may be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions may be facilitated through one or more communication subsystems . Communication subsystem s may include one or more wireless communication subsystems. Wireless communication subsystems may include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. Wired communication system may include a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or some other wired port connection that may be used to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving or transmitting data.

The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem may depend on the communication network s or medium s over which the device is intended to operate. For example a device may include wireless communication subsystems designed to operate over a global system for mobile communications GSM network a GPRS network an enhanced data GSM environment EDGE network 802.x communication networks e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max code division multiple access CDMA networks NFC and a Bluetooth network. Wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices. As another example the communication subsystems may allow the device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP protocol HTTP protocol UDP protocol and any other known protocol.

Audio subsystem may be coupled to a speaker and one or more microphones to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

I O subsystem may include touch controller and or other input controller s . Touch controller may be coupled to a touch surface . Touch surface and touch controller may for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a number of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch surface . In one implementation touch surface may display virtual or soft buttons and a virtual keyboard which may be used as an input output device by the user.

Other input controller s may be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown may include an up down button for volume control of speaker and or microphone .

In some implementations device may present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG video files. In some implementations device may include the functionality of an MP3 player and may include a pin connector for tethering to other devices. Other input output and control devices may be used.

Memory interface may be coupled to memory . Memory may include high speed random access memory or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . Memory may store operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. Operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations operating system may include a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

Memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers or servers including peer to peer communications as described in reference to . Communication instructions may also be used to select an operational mode or communication medium for use by the device based on a geographic location obtained by the GPS Navigation instructions of the device. Memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing including a touch model for interpreting touch inputs and gestures sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and other instructions for performing some or all of the processes as described in reference to .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications may correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. Memory may include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution including without limitation non volatile media e.g. optical or magnetic disks volatile media e.g. memory and transmission media. Transmission media includes without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics.

Computer readable mediums or memory can further include operating system e.g. Mac OS server Windows NT server network communication module analytics module and map services module . Operating system can be multi user multiprocessing multitasking multithreading real time etc. Operating system performs basic tasks including but not limited to recognizing input from and providing output to devices keeping track and managing files and directories on computer readable mediums and memory controlling peripheral devices and managing traffic on the one or more communication channels . Network communications module includes various components for establishing and maintaining network connections e.g. software for implementing communication protocols such as TCP IP HTTP etc. . Analytics module performs statistical analysis on harvested transaction data such as cluster analysis e.g. k means clustering . Map services module performs various map services including associating supplemental data with clusters and updating POI database entries with the associated supplement data.

Architecture can be included in any computer device including one or more server computers each having one or more processing cores. Architecture can be implemented in a parallel processing or peer to peer infrastructure or on a single device with one or more processors. Software can include multiple software components or can be a single body of code.

A probability distribution of a cluster data points can be described by mean X mean Y and a covariance matrix for X and Y. This information allows an ellipse abstraction representation of a cluster to be fitted to the clustered data. Parameters of an ellipse can be derived that describe a maximally informative Cartesian plane rotated degrees from the original X and Y axes and also describes standard deviations in both the horizontal and vertical directions of the rotated Cartesian plane.

As time passes disjoint clusters representing the same data entity will need to be added without losing the accuracy of the entire data history. In some implementations a union is formed of multiple cluster descriptions mean X mean Y covariance matrix corresponding to a same region in space over disjoint time periods. Covariance matrices of disjoint clusters are stored rather than the raw data points. This makes the original data points non recoverable to comply with privacy requirements while retaining the ability to combine the covariance matrices and derive an ellipse that is equivalent to the ellipse that would have been obtained if the raw data points from all clusters were stored and used. In some implementations older clusters may contribute less to the export according to a decaying function to reflect trends in the current data.

To calculate a union between covariance matrices derived from two disjoint clusters representing the same data entity the following six properties for each cluster are determined count of points sum of squared of x sum of squared of y sum of x y mean x and mean y. Given these properties a weighted union of two or more cluster descriptions can be obtained by producing a product equivalent to having the entire distribution of original data points without recreating the data points involved in the calculation.

Given set A having ndata points set B having ndata points and set C having ndata points a covariance matrix covMfor set C that is the weighted union of set A and set B is given by equations 1 4 

The features described may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The features may be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps may be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output.

The described features may be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that may be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program may be written in any form of programming language e.g. Objective C Java including compiled or interpreted languages and it may be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer may communicate with mass storage devices for storing data files. These mass storage devices may include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with an author the features may be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the author and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the author may provide input to the computer.

The features may be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system may be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system may include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

One or more features or steps of the disclosed embodiments may be implemented using an Application Programming Interface API . An API may define on or more parameters that are passed between a calling application and other software code e.g. an operating system library routine function that provides a service that provides data or that performs an operation or a computation.

The API may be implemented as one or more calls in program code that send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure based on a call convention defined in an API specification document. A parameter may be a constant a key a data structure an object an object class a variable a data type a pointer an array a list or another call. API calls and parameters may be implemented in any programming language. The programming language may define the vocabulary and calling convention that a programmer will employ to access functions supporting the API.

In some implementations an API call may report to an application the capabilities of a device running the application such as input capability output capability processing capability power capability communications capability etc.

As described above some aspects of the subject matter of this specification include gathering and use of data available from various sources to improve services a mobile device can provide to a user. The present disclosure contemplates that in some instances this gathered data may identify a particular location or an address based on device usage. Such personal information data can include location based data addresses subscriber account identifiers or other identifying information.

The present disclosure further contemplates that the entities responsible for the collection analysis disclosure transfer storage or other use of such personal information data will comply with well established privacy policies and or privacy practices. In particular such entities should implement and consistently use privacy policies and practices that are generally recognized as meeting or exceeding industry or governmental requirements for maintaining personal information data private and secure. For example personal information from users should be collected for legitimate and reasonable uses of the entity and not shared or sold outside of those legitimate uses. Further such collection should occur only after receiving the informed consent of the users. Additionally such entities would take any needed steps for safeguarding and securing access to such personal information data and ensuring that others with access to the personal information data adhere to their privacy policies and procedures. Further such entities can subject themselves to evaluation by third parties to certify their adherence to widely accepted privacy policies and practices.

In the case of advertisement delivery services the present disclosure also contemplates embodiments in which users selectively block the use of or access to personal information data. That is the present disclosure contemplates that hardware and or software elements can be provided to prevent or block access to such personal information data. For example in the case of advertisement delivery services the present technology can be configured to allow users to select to opt in or opt out of participation in the collection of personal information data during registration for services.

Therefore although the present disclosure broadly covers use of personal information data to implement one or more various disclosed embodiments the present disclosure also contemplates that the various embodiments can also be implemented without the need for accessing such personal information data. That is the various embodiments of the present technology are not rendered inoperable due to the lack of all or a portion of such personal information data. For example content can be selected and delivered to users by inferring preferences based on non personal information data or a bare minimum amount of personal information such as the content being requested by the device associated with a user other non personal information available to the content delivery services or publically available information.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. Elements of one or more implementations may be combined deleted modified or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

