---

title: Detecting resource consumption events over sliding intervals in cloud-based network
abstract: A processor accesses usage history data, which includes subscription events for a virtual machine, and generates translatable time periods to which the subscription events can be assigned. Each of the translatable time periods is temporally shifted and each of the subscription events is assigned to one or more translatable time periods. The processor generates translation outcomes for a user of the virtual machine for the translatable time periods in view of assigned subscription events. The translation outcomes include an identified change in subscription costs of the user over the translatable time periods. The processor identifies a translated base period from the translatable time periods for which the subscription parameters will be applied to the usage history data in view of applying selection criteria to the translation outcomes and tracks resource usage of the user in view of the identified translated base period to determine an alternate set of subscription costs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219669&OS=09219669&RS=09219669
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09219669
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140710
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 149 235 filed May 31 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to detecting resource consumption events over sliding intervals in cloud based network and more particularly to platforms and techniques for generating translatable or shiftable time periods for the evaluation of resource consumption by virtual machines in a cloud based network.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets social networking sites and many other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks services or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes and so forth. Due in part to the user s requirements and overall usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud at any given instant and the user s deployment of virtual machines software and other resources can change dynamically over time. In cases the user may also utilize multiple independent host clouds to support the user s cloud deployment. That user may further instantiate and use multiple applications or other software or services inside or across multiple of those cloud boundaries and those resources may be used or consumed by multiple or differing end user groups in those different cloud networks.

In terms of the administrative capture of a user s resource consumption history and the metering billing and other subscription consequences that result from recording that information in conventional cloud platforms or other virtual platforms the consumption periods or intervals over which user activity may be tracked may be set or configured at fixed or regular intervals such as fifteen minutes or one hour periods. Moreover in conventional systems those intervals may be configured or set to start at default time points such as every hour on the hour or others and those intervals may not be adjusted or offset. In such situations and others a user whose resource consumption history demonstrates bursty activity that crosses or straddles those default intervals may therefore not be assessed any over consumption fees or receive any other subscription consequences even if the consumption or other events would exceed subscription limits if the time periods were aligned to start at different time points.

It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for detecting resource consumption events over sliding intervals in cloud based network in which an administrator and or other user can select or configure the time periods for a user s consumption tracking to be translated or shifted to different starting and ending time points and consequently produce different groupings of consumption events depending on how the time periods are translated.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of hardware software services and or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process service or other resource. For example one group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve an operating system and or components utilities or interfaces related to that operating system to deliver to a virtual target and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time memory allocations communications ports or links and or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications software or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers and or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds along with the set of instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware services and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all servers in set of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines virtual appliance machines consisting of special purpose or dedicated task machines as understood in the art and or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested in that platform s associated cloud. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of hardware software service and or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example and as noted comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts Web pages and or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines services or processes is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a month or other interval of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user s instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input output I O throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines software and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. It may be noted that user herein can include a network level user or subscriber to cloud based networks such as a corporation government entity educational institution and or other entity including individual users and groups of users.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally the cloud management system can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines services or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as optical storage or hard disk arrays may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds acting as hosts and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines or users. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds acting as hosts or native clouds for instance on an on demand subscribed or event triggered basis.

With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.

After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers the cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user s requested virtual machine service or other resource. The cloud management system for the one or more clouds acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population services or other cloud based resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various selected sets of resource servers in set of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines services or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. In aspects different sets of servers in set of resource servers can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and or for different applications. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines services or processes.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines processes services and or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth services and or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.

As shown for example in after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer selected software and or other resources the cloud management system can then instantiate a set of virtual machines and or other appliances services processes and or entities based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers registered to support the one or more clouds in a multiple cloud network . According to aspects cloud management system can access or interact with a virtualization module platform or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines such as the kernel based virtualization manager KVM available from Red Hat Inc. of Raleigh N.C. or others. In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 20 000 or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects users may access the one or more clouds via the Internet or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally the cloud management system can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage each user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and or other privileges entitlements or actions. The cloud management system associated with the virtual machine s of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings the tracking of usage activity for one or more user including network level user and or end user can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds as described herein. In embodiments the cloud management system of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription and or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription billing entitlement and or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines to be made available to users via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interface via an application server such as a Java server via an application programming interface API and or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system and the registered servers in set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls protocols and or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds or between those or other clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other services machines or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront messaging site and or any other application. Likewise one or more clouds can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds themselves.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical or virtual level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify install or configure any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes services and or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the set of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support the set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system and or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities on a dynamic basis.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the one or more cloud management systems associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example install initiate suspend or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate an application identified as infected or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a network wide or other collective basis for instance to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system and or other associated logic.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time at overlapping times and or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud or other sub domain or partition of the one or more clouds acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds into distinct transient sub clouds sub components or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines services and or processes generated in a second third or further cloud in one or more clouds comprising a multiple cloud network . The cloud management system of a first cloud of one or more clouds can interface with the cloud management system of a second third or further cloud of one or more clouds to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines services and or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud on one or more clouds can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization government and or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application service and or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

Aspects of the present teachings relate to platforms and techniques in which the tracking of an event chronology reflected in a user s set of usage history data based on a set of translatable or slidable time periods. That is according to aspects there may be situations where it is advantageous to the user of a set of virtual machines to the provider of a cloud supporting or hosting the set of virtual machines and or other entities to be able to track and organize usage histories and subscription events and or other events or conditions according to time periods whose start point and end point can be translated or adjusted to more accurately and or differently account for the subscription effects or outcomes of those events. Thus for instance according to aspects a user s set of subscription parameters may specify that over consumption of processor or memory resources will constitute a chargeable event if for instance more than three such events occur in a given one hour interval. In aspects it could be the case that a user displays four or five processor or other consumption spikes above subscription limits in a row but if three of those consumption peaks take place near the end of the fixed one hour consumption interval while one or two others follow closely in a succeeding one hour interval the user s consumption behavior may not be accurately captured or reflected in any billing or other outputs. The ability of a schedule engine and or other logic to translate or shift those time periods to a point or position where billing or other subscription effects more faithfully reflect the actual consumption behavior can therefore enhance management and other operations for the set of virtual machines and or support cloud s .

Consistent with the foregoing in general shows an illustrative network configuration in which systems and methods for detecting resource consumption events over sliding intervals in cloud based network can be implemented according to various embodiments. In embodiments as shown one or more users can operate a user premise such as a local area network with a set of servers and client machines and or other machines or resources. In aspects a set of users can in addition or instead operate one or more sets of virtual machines appliances and or other virtual entities not shown in a set of host clouds . In aspects the set of users can be or include a collection of sub groups of users who are each affiliated with or a part of the same entity such as a corporation government entity and or other organization. In aspects the corporation and or other collective entity can establish overall subscription parameters to which its users are entitled on a collective basis. In cases the individual teams or users may not be aware or have a mechanism by which to track overall resource consumption on a collective basis for instance to maintain service or resource level limits.

According to aspects systems and methods according to the present teachings can permit. In aspects the set of host clouds hosting the set of users can include a set of diverse and or otherwise unrelated cloud based networks to which the set of users can subscribe for various resources under various subscription terms limits criteria service level agreements and or other conditions which can be recorded or reflected in a set of subscription parameters . The set of subscription parameters can for instance be stored in the cloud store hosted or accessed by a cloud management system and or in other storage resources or locations.

In embodiments as shown an administrator and or other user can operate a client or other interface or terminal for instance a client located in or communicating with the user premise to access the set of subscription parameters and other information related to the consumption of resources in the set of host clouds by the set of users . In aspects the consumption of resources in the set of host clouds and generation of related billing events and other subscription related activities can be tracked and managed by an entitlement engine which can be hosted in the cloud management system and or in other locations resources or services. According to aspects the entitlement engine can communicate with a one or more resource providers such as the vendors of software such as operating systems applications utilities and or other programs services and or related resources. The one or more resource providers can maintain part or all of the terms conditions limits criteria stipulations and or other parameters of the subscription of the set of users to one or more resources hosted or provisioned in the set of host clouds and for instance reflected in the set of subscription parameters .

In aspects each host cloud in the set of host clouds can capture and store a set of local usage data . The set of local usage data can record the consumption or use of resources in a local host cloud in the set of host clouds such as the number of instances of software including operating systems and applications processor resources memory resources communications resources storage resources and or other elements or resources. The set of local usage data can include usage data for one some and or all of the set of users operating virtual machines or otherwise consuming resources in each particular host cloud. The entitlement engine can periodically receive the set of local usage data and or updates to that information from one or more host clouds in the set of host clouds . The receipt of the set of local usage data or any portion of the set of local usage data can be performed in aspects on a pull or demand basis where the entitlement engine and or other logic can issue commands or instructions to one or more host clouds in the set of host clouds and receive that data back from the interrogated cloud or clouds. In aspects the set of local usage data can be transmitted to the entitlement engine on a push basis for instance on a scheduled predetermined event triggered and or other basis initiated by one or more of the host clouds in set of host clouds themselves. Other channels schedules and techniques for the collection of the set of local usage data from any one or more of the set of host clouds can be used.

After receipt of the set of local usage data any portion or component of the set of local usage data and or updates to the same the entitlement engine can collect and aggregate the set of local usage data from the various host clouds and organize that data in a set of aggregate usage history data . The set of aggregate usage history data can reflect recent and or accumulated usage consumption by the set of users user in all of the set of host clouds over comparatively short term periods or intervals such as minutes one or more hours one day a number of days a week a month or months and or other intervals or periods. In aspects the entitlement engine can collect the set of local usage data regardless of whether each of those clouds is configured to communicate with each other or not. In aspects the set of aggregate usage history data can present to the entitlement engine and or other logic the combined resource consumption by the set of users across the user premise and or all operating virtual machines or entities on an hour by hour day by day and or other relatively short term basis.

According to aspects the entitlement engine can thereby identify comparatively short term resource consumption by the virtual machines or other entities sites or nodes operated by the set of users and capture and track that consumption compared to the short term limits levels or caps that may be contained in the set of subscription parameters for that user. The entitlement engine can therefore generate or determine a short term consumption margin for each resource which the set of users consume and or subscribe to in each cloud in the set of host clouds indicating whether over the course of an hour or other period the consumption rates or values are over the subscription limit for a given resource under the subscription limit or at or nearly at the subscription limit for that resource.

Both the over and under consumption margins for each resource can be captured and calculated from which the entitlement engine can generate a set of short term user aggregated margins representing the collective short term consumption of that resource across the diverse host clouds in set of host clouds resulting in an offset or aggregate consumption value. Deviations from short term consumption caps limits service level agreements SLAs and or other criteria can therefore be combined averaged aggregated and or otherwise smoothed out to more accurately and or timely reflect the consumption patterns of the set of users as a whole on an aggregate basis. In aspects the resource provider the cloud operators or providers of the set of host clouds and or other entities can thereby charge bill or otherwise adjust the subscription costs or other factors encoded in the billing record sent to the set of users for instance via an administrator or other users so that their subscription obligations more closely track the actual consumption behavior demonstrated by the set of users . In aspects the set of short term user aggregated margins can for instance be used to establish short term marginal subscription costs based on short term deviations from any subscription consumption limits which costs can then be combined over different time periods to further average or aggregate the deviations in resource consumption. In aspects the detection of bursts and relaxations in resource consumption over relatively short term periods can thereby allow both positive and negative offsets or margins in subscription costs creating a more accurate assignment of subscription rates.

In implementations as shown after detecting the set of short term user aggregated margins for each resource of interest the entitlement engine can generate a billing record reflecting that event for purposes of notification to the user and collection of billing amounts or other responses. In aspects the entitlement engine can transmit or forward the billing record to the resource provider such as a software vendor to produce and transmit to the user under agreed billing arrangements. In aspects the entitlement engine can transmit or forward the billing record to one or more host clouds in set of host clouds including those in which an over limit resource usage or other event took place to potentially transmit to the set of users and or other recipient for similar purposes. In aspects the resource provider and one or more cloud operators or cloud providers of the set of host clouds can maintain agreements or arrangements for the capture and forwarding of the billing record and the collection of any billing amounts or credits paid by the user. In aspects the resource provider and the host cloud providers or operators can establish arrangements to share or distribute any overage payments or other payments or credits received from users between themselves. According to aspects the monitoring and billing capture of short or long term over limit resource consumption can therefore be conducted on a marginal offset or other basis even in instances where each host cloud in set of host clouds is not aware of subscription limits contained in the set of subscription parameters and or the local usage data of one or more of the set of host clouds is not visible to other host clouds and or all groups or sub groups of users within the set of users and or to other participants in the cloud based network.

In implementations the operator or operators of the set of host clouds the one or more users in the set of users and or other users or entities may wish to modify or enhance billing metering scheduling and or other operations by the introduction of non fixed and or translatable time periods. In aspects as shown the cloud management system supporting a set of host clouds can host incorporate and or access a schedule engine and use the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service to build maintain access and update a set of translatable time periods with which to analyze an event chronology for the resource consumption record s of the virtual machines of one or more users. The schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can generate a set of translation outcomes which are produced by introducing and analyzing the set of translatable time periods to determine the billing metering scheduling and or other effects that would be produced by shifting or changing the time period to which the user s event chronology is assigned. In aspects the shifting of subscription measurement and or other time periods can be cycled through an entire set of usage history and or set of translatable time periods recording the effects of those shifts one after the other. In embodiments as shown the set of translation outcomes can thereby reflect the collective or aggregate set of possible alternative billing and or other subscription effects caused by using those alternative time frames or periods to measure or assess the user s event chronology including resource consumption events. A translated base period can then be determine or selected based on the set of translation outcomes by applying a set of selection criteria to the set of translation outcomes to identify desired billing metering scheduling and or other ranges or outputs created by choosing an identified translated based period as described herein.

In terms of data capture of the usage subscription billing and related information used to detect and record resource consumption excess resource capacity flows one or more event chronologies and or other information and or other events illustrates an aggregate usage history record that can be used to store the set of aggregate usage history data which can store and encode various data attributes criteria and or other information used to track and manage the differential or marginal resource consumption in the set of host clouds and or other host sites by the set of users . In aspects the aggregate usage history record can be encoded as a relational or other database table tree file object and or other data store or data structure. In aspects as shown the set of aggregate usage history data encoded and stored in the aggregate usage history record can include tables entries values attributes and or other information including set of short term consumption data reflecting the usage of one or more resources in the set of host clouds by each user in the set of users over one or more short term consumption periods . In aspects the one or more short term consumption periods can be or include a variety of periods or intervals such as one hour intervals as shown but can also be or include other periods or intervals such as 1 5 10 15 and or 30 minutes 2 hours 8 hours 12 hours one day or 24 hours 3 days one week and or other time intervals or periods. In aspects the one or more short term consumption periods can reflect a period or interval or periods or intervals that is are shorter than the period called for in the set of subscription parameters as the basic or defined interval in terms of resource consumption limits or levels service level agreements SLAs and or other subscription criteria or settings. In aspects the short term subscription period can be defined to be equal to the subscription period s or interval s defined by the set of subscription parameters . In aspects the value length or short term nature of the one or more short term consumption periods can be configured as dynamic flexible or configurable units rather than defined as a strict number of minutes hours days and or weeks or other units. In aspects the short term subscription period can be set or configured by a user such as the cloud provider s or cloud operator s of the set of host clouds by the one or more resource providers by the set of users whose set of aggregate usage history data is being track and administered and or by other users or entities. In aspects a record can be kept in the aggregate usage history record recording for each cloud in the set of host clouds in which the set of users subscribes and or uses or consumes resources the short term consumption data indicating an amount rate or other metric of resource consumption over each of the one or more short term consumption periods .

In aspects as shown the aggregate usage history record can likewise include for each cloud in the set of host clouds and each resource consumed or used in that cloud the short term consumption limit for that user based on the set of subscription parameters and or other information for each user in the set of users . In aspects the entitlement engine and or other logic can generate and store a short term subscription margin reflecting the deviation in terms of under consumption or over consumption of each resource for which each user in the set of users has a short term consumption limit . The short term subscription margin can thereby reflect on a comparatively short term basis such as every 15 or 30 minutes hour 8 hour one day or other period the marginal amount by which the consumption of a subscribed resource by the set of users is fluctuating and possibly deviating from the short term consumption limit . In aspects the short term subscription margin can reflect a negative value indicating that a lesser amount of one or more resource is being consumed or has been consumed compared to limits or levels in the set of subscription parameters . In aspects the short term subscription margin can reflect a positive value indicating that a greater amount of one or more resource is being consumed or has been consumed compared to limits or levels in the set of subscription parameters .

In aspects the entitlement engine and or other logic can similarly collect and sum or aggregate the short term subscription margin over each host cloud in the set of host clouds in which the set of users is using or consuming the subject resource to generate a set of short term user aggregated margins representing the comparatively short term or immediate net consumption of the resource over the set of users . In aspects the set of short term user aggregated margins can also be aggregated over two or more clouds of the set of host clouds . The set of short term user aggregated margins can be calculated and stored for each hour and or other period represented by the one or more short term consumption periods for instance over the course of one hour day one week one month and or other period or interval. In aspects as shown the entitlement engine and or other logic or service can further calculate and store an aggregate consumption total over a defined period such as a one day or other period summing or aggregating the set of short term user aggregated margins for a resource for one user over that period. In aspects the aggregate consumption total can thereby encode the combined net averaged and or otherwise aggregated effect of the various under and over limit consumption events by the set of users in the set of host clouds over 12 hours 24 hours and or other predetermined interval. The entitlement engine and or other logic can in addition also calculate and store a set of offset subscription costs reflecting the costs surcharges credits and or other adjustments for each hour and or other period in the one or more short term consumption periods for a particular resource across the set of users . A resource provider cloud operator and or other entity may be entitled for instance to an overage subscription fee or charge at a rate of 0.50 per instance for operating system OS instances over the short term consumption limit based on that usage and or other adjustments or factors. In aspects the set of offset subscription costs can be computed at a fixed rate and or at a dynamically adjusted rate for instance based on time of usage total resource consumption and or other parameters. The entitlement engine and or other service or logic can also generate an aggregate offset subscription cost which combines or sums the set of offset subscription costs for each of the one or more short term consumption periods for a predetermined period such as one day one week one month and or other period or interval across the set of users . The aggregate offset subscription cost and other consumption variables and cost factors can in aspects thereby more accurately correspond to the overall rate or absolute amount of resource consumption in the set of host clouds by the set of users . In embodiments the entitlement engine and or other logic can in addition combine sum and or otherwise aggregate or net the aggregate offset subscription cost for multiple individual resources whose consumption data in turn has been aggregated across multiple host clouds in the corresponding aggregate offset subscription cost to generate a total offset subscription cost. In aspects the total offset subscription cost can encapsulate the net marginal resource usage by the set of users against all short term consumption limits with associated costs or credits across all host clouds in the set of host clouds all subscribed resources and or all daily or other operative time periods constructed from the one or more short term consumption periods .

In aspects and as likewise shown in the entitlement engine and or other logic or service can also capture identify and or record an event chronology for one or more users based on some or all of the foregoing consumption information and or other information or data. In aspects the translated base period can be derived and or extracted from the set of aggregate usage history data including tracked consumption records and or other data or sources. In aspects the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can scan or probe the effects of shifting or translating the set of translatable time periods across multiple time intervals to determine the effects of assigning the user s event chronology and or associated subscription events and or other consumption or other records conditions and or events to different periods or intervals. In aspects the set of translatable time periods can in one regard exhaustively probe the translated base period by bracketing the translated base period over successive time intervals from a first time point to a last time point available or reflected in the set of aggregate usage history data. In other aspects each time period in the set of translatable time periods can be configured or aligned to begin on the time point or timestamp of a first event in the event chronology . Other configurations of the set of translatable time periods can be used.

According to those and related aspects of the present teachings and as for example further shown in the schedule engine entitlement engine and or other logic application and or service can operate to generate manipulate and configure the set of translatable time periods to analyze the set of subscription events derived from and or contained in the event chronology for a user or more than one user of the set of users whose virtual machines and or other services or processes are hosted in the set of host clouds . In aspects the schedule engine entitlement engine and or other logic application and or service can generate the set of translatable time periods each of which can span a regular fixed and or predetermined interval such as two three four five and or other time increments periods and or intervals. In aspects the intervals can be or include intervals or seconds minutes hours days weeks and or other values intervals and or durations. In aspects as shown each time period in the set of translatable time periods can be shifted or translated by one time tick or increment but other shifts or translations can be used.

After generating the set of translatable time periods and as for instance shown in the schedule engine entitlement engine and or other logic application and or service can generate a set of translation outcomes that reflect the aggregate effects or results that arise from grouping the set of subscription events according to each time period in the set of translatable time periods . In aspects the set of translation outcomes that are created by grouping the set of subscription events according to each time period in the set of translatable time periods can be generated and or identified by analyzing the set of subscription parameters against the set of translatable time periods within each time period to determine for instance resource over consumption events resource under consumption events effects related to subscription costs and or other events effects and or occurrences. After the development or generation of the set of translation outcomes the schedule engine entitlement engine and or other logic application and or service can apply the set of selection criteria to the set of translation outcomes to identify and or select the translated base period . In aspects the set of selection criteria can be or include a set of rules thresholds functions logical relationships and or other criteria that can be used to select a time period in the set of translatable time periods for use as a base period to evaluate the user s set of subscription parameters in relation to the set of subscription events and or other usage information. It may be noted that according to aspects different service level agreements SLAs can be applied to different intervals or periods in the set of translatable time periods . Thus for example in the interval or period of 9 00 a.m. to 5 00 p.m. Eastern standard time an event trigger or marker in the event chronology and or other record can be 3 processor overages or other events per hour while the same event trigger can be changed to 5 processor overages or other events per hour during weekend or holiday times. Other events triggers and periods can be used and again different levels specified in SLAs or other subscription parameters can be applied to or over different periods and or to the same subscription period s based on changing consumption conditions and or other triggers or parameters.

Merely for example each short term consumption margin for a consumed resource that is positive either aggregate across clouds or within a singular cloud can be treated as a t0 to create a true sliding consumption period. Additionally a rule can be set that states if there is a consumption overage positive after X number of short term consumption margin events E0 . . . n after Y consumption period it is only then that the schedule engine and or other logic would be concerned with collecting a subscription cost. So for example if a consumption period Y is defined to be 15 minutes and there is a positive short term consumption margin event E0 then the system can start the clock for the Y period and wait to see if X number short term consumption margin events are recognized. If X 3 and E1 arrives at minute 9 and E2 arrives at minute 12 then the system can collect cost. However if X 3 and E1 arrives at minute 9 and E2 arrives at minute 16 then the system does not collect any cost. It may be noted that each event can restart a timer with respect to its occurrence. So in the noted instance E0 at t0 does not cause a collection event with E1 at 9 and E2 at minute 16. However if E3 arrived at 17 then there will be a collection event relative to E1 because X 3 and Y 15 . Other rules calculations and or outputs can be used.

In the entitlement engine and or other logic can sum the short term subscription margin across all users in the set of users and or all host clouds for each period of the one or more short term consumption periods to generate the short term user aggregated margin for that respective period. For instance in exemplary records as shown in the number of operating system OS instances instantiated and or run by the set of users in a given hour across the set of host clouds can be totaled so that instances of under limit consumption offset instances of over limit consumption resulting in a net short term user aggregated margin for the one or more short term consumption periods across all users in set of users for one or more all host clouds. In cases the set of short term user aggregated margins may reflect a net over consumption positive value for that hour or other period as illustratively shown or can reflect an under consumption negative value for that same period. A zero margin at limit value can also be reflected.

In the entitlement engine and or other logic can generate the set of marginal consumption totals 168 reflecting the total combined short term subscription margin for each resource being tracked over a 24 hour or other interval or period. For example and as shown for instance in the under limit e.g. recorded as a negative value and over limit e.g. recorded as a positive value margins or increments of consumption under or over the short term consumption limit for each one or more short term consumption periods can be summed or combined to determine the set of short term user aggregated margins for each respective resource over a 24 hour period again for one or more host clouds. In aspects other periods or intervals other than a 24 hour period can be used to sum the values reflected in the set of short term user aggregated margins . The values reflected in the set of short term user aggregated margins can thereby reflect the netting out of the under consumption and over consumption values for a given resource in two or more dimensions namely over multiple users and or two or more host clouds and over multiple instances of the one or more short term consumption periods averaging out consumption fluctuations by the set of users in relation to the set of short term consumption limits .

In the entitlement engine and or other logic can generate the set of offset subscription costs for each of the one or more short term consumption periods corresponding to the set of short term user aggregated margins for each subscribed resource. For instance if the record for a given one or more short term consumption periods reflects the over consumption of 20 operating system instances the assigned overage cost of that usage may be for instance 0.50 times 20 instances or 10.00 for that hour or other period. In the entitlement engine and or other logic can generate the aggregate offset subscription cost for one 24 hour or other period representing the combination of the set of offset subscription costs over a multiple number of the one or more short term consumption periods such as the combination of 24 one hour periods or other intervals periods or multiples. In the entitlement engine and or other logic can generate the billing record based on the aggregate offset subscription cost for each resource being tracked and or metered for the set of users and or based on other costs adjustments offsets and or factors. In the entitlement engine and or other logic entities or resources such as the operator of the set of host clouds can transmit the billing record to an administrator for the set of users and or other user or other recipient. In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

In the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can translate the first time period to generate a second time period in the set of translatable time periods . In aspects the first time period can be translated to the second time period by incrementing the first time point or timestamp in the first time period by one increment. In aspects the increment can comprise the smallest time interval or clock tick recorded in the set of aggregate usage history data and or other record such as merely for example 1 minute 15 minutes and or other intervals or values. In aspects the increment can comprise an increment which is larger than the smallest time interval or clock tick recorded in the set of aggregate usage history data and or other record such as merely for example 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes or an hour. Other increments functions and or techniques can be used to translate or slide the first time period by some amount or degree to create or advance to the second time period .

In the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can analyze the set of subscription events for the second time period in the set of translatable time periods . In aspects the set of subscription events can be or include events such as for example the reaching or exceeding of one or more resource consumption limits for a given user as encoded in the user s set of subscription parameters . In aspects the set of subscription events can be or include other events occurrences and or conditions and those events or occurrences can likewise be identified and analyzed for the second time period including to detect or identify effects and or changes to the subscription costs billing details metering and or other outcomes based on applying the set of subscription parameters to the user s set of usage history data in the second time period .

In the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can continue to translate time period or periods in the set of translatable time periods until the end of the set of translatable time periods is reached with the billing and or other effects or results from those time shifts analyzed for each translated time period. In the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can aggregate or combine the billing and or other effects or results of the time period translation for all of the translated time periods in the set of translatable time periods to generate the set of translation outcomes . In aspects the set of translation outcomes can represent or encode the set of all possible billing metering and or other effects or outcomes to the user s billing parameters and or other subscription arrangements due to the effects of translating and or shifting the subscription periods over the set of translatable time periods . In the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can identify and or select a translation base period and or associated subscription events based on a set of selection criteria which can include merely for example user selections or inputs automatic selection criteria and or based on other factors variables tests thresholds and or criteria applied to the set of translation outcomes . For instance the set of selection criteria can specify the selection of the translation base period to coincide with that one hour subscription period in which the user s subscription costs based on the occurrence or sequence of over consumption events is reduced or minimized. For further instance the set of selection criteria can specify the selection of the translation base period to coincide with that one hour subscription period in which the operator of the cloud or other or other network hosting the user s set of virtual machines realizes the greatest subscription fees or value based on identifying the occurrence or sequence of over consumption events whose fees or revenues are maximized over the translation based period . Other factors variables tests thresholds and or criteria and or combinations of those criteria can be applied to the set of translatable time periods to generate develop or identify the translation base period .

In the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can generate and or consolidate all billing metering and or other changes or updates due to translating or shifting the user s subscription period s to the translated base period . In the schedule engine and or other logic application and or service can align translate shift and or conform one or more remaining period or periods in the user s set of subscription periods to the translated base period as appropriate. For instance already recorded and or future subscription periods reflected in the user s set of usage history data can be updated to start at the same time point and or times offset from the same time point at which the translated base period was selected to begin. In processing can jump to a prior processing point proceed to a further processing point repeat or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers services or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines and or other machines entities services or resources. For further example while embodiments have been described in which a user connects to or accesses the entitlement engine via one client in embodiments multiple clients portals services and or other access points to the entitlement engine can be used. Likewise while embodiments have been described in which one entitlement engine and or schedule engine operate to manage the resource consumption billing and or other activities of one or more users in a set of host clouds in embodiments multiple deployment engines schedule engines and or other logic or services can perform the same or similar logic to manage deployment options. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

