---

title: Muzzle velocity sensor for smart ammunition
abstract: In a gun tube for firing rounds of smart ammunition, a sensor means applied to the ammunition which enables the calculation of muzzle velocity in the instant as the ammunition leaves the muzzle edge of the gun tube. The sensor relies on measurement of magnetic field induced voltages which are unique as the ammunition leaves the muzzle edge of the gun tube. Each round of ammunition has a planar transformer of wiring applied longitudinally on the side of the round, which aids in creating the necessary magnetic fields.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09255776&OS=09255776&RS=09255776
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09255776
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140915
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

This invention relates to linear velocity measuring sensors. In particular but not exclusively this invention is a device that allows gun fired smart ammunition to precisely measure its own muzzle exit velocity for use in precision guidance. This invention allows for the precise measurement of velocity in the axial direction of motion while cancelling the effects of motion in the radial direction.

Sensors are generally used in smart ammunition in order to improve precision especially at long firing ranges. The ultimate goal is to reduce target impact dispersior of a particular round. While in flight a smart round will use its sensors to determine if corrections are necessary to its trajectory. For instance GPS modules magnetometers and gyroscopes can be used to determine location heading and orientation respectively. The round s fuze will use that information to determine if maneuver needs to be performed if the round should recalculate a timer if the round should dud and the like.

It is sometimes necessary for a smart round to know its muzzle exit velocity. In smart rounds that use a timed detonation such as those that have an air burst mode the time set for detonation is computed from the range to target the expected trajectory of the round and an expected muzzle exit velocity. In order for the round to precisely detonate at a specific point in its trajectory especially for air burst mode all of these factors need to be precisely known.

Muzzle exit velocity is typically a value that is not measured rather it is estimated before the round is shot based on the type of round being fired its weight and the type and amount of propellant being used. This is contrary to the range to target and round trajectory both of which are already accurately determined by laser range finder and ballistic computer respectively.

While certain methods have been proposed to measure muzzle velocity each has certain shortcomings. For example in Apparatus for Measure the Muzzle Velocity of a Projectile U.S. Pat. No. 3 659 201 issued April 1972 Remo Vogelsang describes an invention where two coils sit co axially at the end of a gun tube each energized with a DC current source and connected electrical in series. When a bullet is fired it generates two voltage pulses as it passes through both coils. The time difference between each pulse is measured and combined with a temperature compensation technique for the spacing between each coil velocity is determined.

In Inductance Type Velocity Measuring Apparatus U.S. Pat. No. 3 824 463 issued July 1974 Kenneth L. Oehler describes a similar invention where again two coils sit co axially at the end of a gun tube. In his invention the both coils are electrically connected as frequency determining elements of an oscillator. When a bullet is fired through the coils the frequency of the oscillator is modulated twice. An FM discriminator circuit then detects the modulation subsequent pulse shaping circuits produce start and stop pulses whose time interval between along with the spacing of the coils is used to calculate exit velocity.

Finally in Device and Method for Determining the Muzzle Velocity of Projectile US 2004 0250615 A1 Pub Date December 2004 Aldo Alberti and Klaus Munzel describe an invention where a single coil is placed co axially at the end of a gun tube energized with a DC current creating small localized magnetic field. As a bullet is fired it changes the magnetic field within the coil which induces a voltage pulse across the terminals of the coil. This pulse is detected its pulse width measured and used to determine exit velocity.

Nonetheless there remains a need for a more accurate muzzle velocity measuring device as provided by this invention.

This invention allows a smart round to measure its own muzzle exit velocity by using the edge of the gun tube as a reference. The round s added sensor is a form of a special planar air core sensing transformer placed on the side of the round together with associated drive and measurement electronics also added to the round. As the sensor moves past the edge of the tube its displacement can be determined from the sensor s voltage output. From the point of view of the round by measuring the amount of time it takes for the edge of the tube to undergo a set displacement relative to the sensor the velocity of the round itself can be determined. The geometry of the air core sensing transformer additionally cancels motion in radial directions allowing for very precise axial displacement measurements and hence precision velocity measurements.

The sensor makes use of interference between a metal surface with an abrupt ending and an oscillating magnetic field at a fixed frequency to determine how fast that ending is moving relative to the sensor past the sensor. In the case of a smart round the metal surface would be the inner surface of the gun tube firing the round and the edge would be the end of the tube at the muzzle. The oscillating magnetic field is created by a planar air coil transformer attached to the side of the round whose primary winding is energized with an ac current. As further explained herein the secondary of the transformer has a particular geometry that will allow the position of the gun tube edge to be determined relative to the location of the round

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a sensor means which enables the calculation of muzzle velocity in the instant as a smart ammunition leaves the muzzle edge of a gun tube from which it is fired.

Another object of the present invention is to provide measurement of magnetic field induced voltages which are unique as a round of smart ammunition leaves the muzzle edge of a gun tube from which it is fired.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide each round of smart ammunition with a planar transformer of wiring applied longitudinally on the side of such round which aids in creating necessary magnetic fields to measure exit velocity as the smart ammunition leaves the muzzle edge of a gun tube from which it is fired.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Referring to a first embodiment of the invention includes a planar loop of several turns of wire referred to now as the primary of this air coil transformer. The primary coil is a planar loop of several turns whose terminals are located at the right end of the figure. The secondary coil is a single loop a single wire with multiple twists. This single loop wire has its terminals shown at the right side of the figure. Within single loop the twists form multiple minor loops and end minor loops . The end loops have half the area of a minor loop . The primary is used to generate an oscillating magnetic field while the secondary is used to measure that field by making a voltage available at its terminals when connected to a high impedance amplifier. This voltage is dependent on the strength of the field the oscillating frequency and the position of the edge of the gun tube relative to the secondary e.g. as will now explained.

A sinusoidal current of a specific frequency is set up through the primary loop which creates an oscillating magnetic field surrounding the loop. If the loop were located in free space the geometry of the field could be determined by the Biot Savart law. However as shown in the metal body of the round and the metal inner surface of the gun tube act to interfere and reshape the field. This is due to the eddy currents that are set up in the metal that act to buck out the field from entering. The geometry of the field can be approximated using the method of image currents.

The presence of the inner surface of the gun tube acts to reduce the magnitude of the magnetic field perpendicular to the surface of the round to a value B. The metal body of the round also has the same effect but since the round and the loop move as one solid piece this effect is immaterial to the velocity measurement process.

As the round moves toward the edge of the tube the edge of the gun tube starts to move past the loop relatively speaking . As a result two regions of the magnetic field are created one of a large perpendicular magnitude B and one of the said smaller magnitude B. Once the round is fully out of the tube the magnitude is once again entirely Bover the surface of the sensor.

This entire effect as mentioned is diagrammed in with magnetic field intensities Band Bdepicted as arrows in region . Rectangle depicts the current carrying region of the primary loop in side view while rectangle depicts the region of the inner surface of the gun tube that carries image currents.

As mentioned the secondary sits entirely within the primary and is exposed to both oscillating field intensities Band B. The turns of the secondary are arranged such that when it is exposed to uniform field intensity throughout its entire length the sensor is nulled and ideally no voltage appears at the secondary terminals. This is because all of the EMFs around each of the turns of the secondary cancel. The turns can be viewed as loops of equal area exposed to equal magnetic field intensities but wired in criss cross.

As mentioned as the sensing transformer is swept past the edge of the gun tube this null condition is upset. The output voltage of the secondary becomes amplitude modulated with an amplitude that swings from positive to negative in an oscillating manner. The zero crossings of the amplitude of this AM signal are illustrated in . As the transition region from Bto Bpasses between areas aand a the EMFs around the loops cancel. Even with balloting modeled as modulating Bto b y B with y being the amount of balloting off axis the EMFs around the loops still cancel.

The voltage signal from the secondary is then synchronously demodulated using the original AC drive signal as a reference. This recovers the amplitude modulation as shown in . This signal will go through a single temporal period as the edge of the gun tube passes through a single spatial period over the loops. The times between the zero crossings represent the flight time over fixed distances from which velocity can be calculated.

Other possible embodiments of the invention include the case where the planar air coil transformer comprises one primary and two or more secondary coils. As was mentioned with respect to the geometry of the planar air coil transformer with two secondary coils and are two subsections of the original secondary coil in the preferred embodiment. Each subsection consists of one zero crossing zone creating two displacement references. The electronic measurement circuitry can look for the zero crossings and determine the time between when the edge of the gun tube has crossed them relatively speaking yielding a velocity measurement.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

