---

title: Non-numeric personal identification
abstract: Various methods and systems are provided for allowing a user to select a non-numeric PIN or password and use that to access content instead of a conventional numerical PIN. A series of visual, textual, and/or audio “digits” form the PIN, where each succeeding digit may be related to and/or further limit one or more of the preceding digits.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411951&OS=09411951&RS=09411951
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09411951
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140915
---
This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 730 567 filed Mar. 24 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to personal identification and in particular to non numeric personal identification.

When conducting different types of transactions either in person or over a network a user is typically required to enter a personal identification number PIN or password to identify or authenticate the user. For in person transactions a user may present or enter account information of a payment instrument such as a debit card and then enter a PIN into a numerical keypad. Typical PINS are sequences of four numbers although the length may differ and symbols characters letters may also be used either alone or in combination. If the PIN matches the user s account information the user and financial instruction is validated authenticated and the transaction continues or completes.

Even though PINs are still used for in person transactions a vast majority of PIN use is with transactions over a network such as the Internet or other communication medium. Typically the user access a website such as of a financial institution merchant retailer on line market place social network payment provider or any other site that requests a PIN or password for access to the user s account or information. Access can be through almost any computer device e.g. a PC laptop smart phone PDA etc. Once a site is accessed the user is typically requested to enter one or more identifiers such as a PIN or password through the user device which again is normally a series of numbers but can also be characters symbols and or letters.

Such random sequences of numbers characters symbols and or letters make it increasingly difficult for the user to remember PINs as the number of different PINs increases. Therefore many users use the same PIN for most if not all of the user s accounts. However while easy to remember this practice is not the most secure. This is because if the user s PIN is discovered all of the user s accounts may be compromised.

Therefore a need exists for users to authenticate or identify themselves that overcomes the disadvantages mentioned above.

According to one embodiment of the disclosure a sequence of non numeric digits is used to create a PIN. The length of the sequence can be two or more digits. The digits comprising the PIN are words or pictures. In one embodiment each successive digit is a further limiter of the one preceding. For example with a three digit PIN the first digit may be a category or subject such as food the second digit may be a type of food such as fruit and the third digit may be a type of fruit such as mango. Other examples of different types of digits include colors vegetables cars shapes furniture utensils clothing desserts etc. In other embodiments the digits are related but not successive limiters or are unrelated to each other. The digits may be presented as words pictures videos animation or sounds.

When accessing a site or creating an account the user may be asked to select a PIN or password as part of the process. The user may be asked to choose a first digit such as from a drop down menu wheel or other type of listing or grouping. Next the user is asked to choose a second digit based on what was selected for the first digit. This continues until the desired number of digits is selected by the user. Note that in other embodiments the second and or any other successive digits need not be based on a preceding selected digit. Once the PIN is selected the user may be asked to confirm the selection. This PIN is then stored and associated with the user account such that when the user desires to access or log into a site or account the user will be asked to enter the selected PIN.

Using a non numeric PIN as described provides advantages over conventional numeric PINs. For example a non numeric PIN may be easier for the user to remember because of the visual nature of the PIN and in some embodiments the relationship between the digits. The non numeric PIN may also provide greater security for the user due to the larger number of combinations for the PIN when the number of choices for the digits is greater than 10 which is the number available for numeric PINs e.g. 0 to 9 .

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Once the access request is received a determination is made at step whether the user is registered with the entity or system. This may be done in any number of suitable ways including checking device or user information conveyed with the request such as a phone number email address or user name. The information may be conveyed automatically with the transmission or entered by the user prior to transmission. This information is checked to see if the user associated with the information is registered with the system or entity. In other embodiments the user is simply asked if he is a first time user or is registered.

If the user is not registered the user is requested to register and select a non numeric PIN or password at step . Details of this step will be discussed with respect to . Once the user is registered with a non numeric PIN access is granted at step . Access can be for any content that the site requires a user identifier to view or edit.

If as determined at step the user is already registered with the site user information is received at step . This user information may be anything required or requested by the entity that was not received at step . For example the user may be requested to enter a username email address or other identifier. Using this information the user may be identified as someone having previously registered with the system. If the user information does not match up with any previously registered user the user may be asked to re enter or enter new user information. Once the user is identified a counter is set to one at step to start the process for receiving a non numeric PIN from the user.

At step the user is presented with options for the first digit of the PIN. For example the user may be presented with a drop down menu wheel or other type if display showing the user different options available for the first digit. In one embodiment the options are the same for all users registered with the system entity or website. The options may be a plurality of general categories or subjects such as food cars clothing cities states countries colors shapes movies actors television shows etc. This may be shown to the user on the user device from display that allows the user to select one of the options such as clicking or tapping on the option or placing a check mark next to the desired option. The options may be presented as words sounds video animation and or other visual representations such as images. In this example the user selects movies. The selection may then be shown to the user. Note that digit refers to any non numeric representation such as an image a word or phrase a picture an audio clip a color animation video etc.

The user selected first digit is then communicated to and received by the system at step . A determination is made at step whether there are more digits in the PIN. Typically there are at least two digits that make up the PIN such as three digits in one embodiment. In another embodiment the PIN may be a single digit. If there are more digits in the PIN than what the system has received from the user the counter is incremented by one at step and a different set of options for the next digit is presented to the user at step .

In one embodiment the different set of options is based on what was received previously from the user although succeeding set of options may also be unrelated. For example if the user selected movies as the first digit the options for the second digit may be different movie titles such as Avatar The Godfather The Sound of Music Scarface Casablanca The Wizard of Oz Top Gun Halloween Saw Up Toy Story etc. Again the set of options may be presented as words and or visual images e.g. a movie poster to display movie titles . The user then selects the second digit from the list which is received by the system at step . Continuing the example the user may select The Sound of Music. At this point the user has selected movies The Sound of Music as the non numeric PIN. Note that in one embodiment the previous selection s remain on the page such that movies remains on the display while the user is presented with the next set of options.

If the PIN length is three digits the user is presented with a third set of options at step . The third set of options may also be based on what was received previously which may be just the first digit the second digit or both. In one embodiment if the third set of options is based only on the first digit the user may be presented with a different list of movie titles for the third digit although the list may include some or all of the same titles as from the previous list.

With the example above the third set of options may be different people songs images and other descriptors from The Sound of Music. This may include Julie Andrews Maria Christopher Plummer My Favorite Things Sixteen Going on Seventeen Max Do Re Mi Salzburg Von Trapp nuns and abbey. This set of options may also be presented as words and or visual images. Note that if appropriate an audio file may also be used such as when presenting audio clips or songs. In the above example the user may select Max. If the PIN requires additional digits another set of options may be presented to the user such as different roles the actor playing Max has taken different movies or shows the Max actor has been in physical or character descriptors of Max etc. The different options can continue until the desired number of digits has been reached with all of the previous input digits shown while the current set of options are displayed for selection.

For exemplary purposes after the user has selected Max and Max has been received by the system there are no more digits in the non numeric PIN as determined at step . Thus for this PIN there are three digits movie The Sound of Music Max. 

When the final digit is received by the system a determination is made at step whether the received non numeric PIN matches the non numeric PIN stored for the user. If one or more of the digits to not match access is denied for the user at step . A message to the user may be transmitted such as an indication of incorrect password or PIN. In different embodiments the user may be asked to enter the PIN again and be given a predetermined amount of attempts.

If the received PIN matches the stored PIN the user is granted access at step which may include access to the user s account private information non public content on the site etc. A final image or display may also be shown to the user if the PIN was correct e.g. a picture of Max from a Sound of Music scene in the above example along with an indication that the PIN was accepted or confirmed.

Once entered the user transmits the information such as by clicking a send or enter button to the site. At step the requested information is received by the site. A counter is initialized to one at step to start the PIN selection process. Thus once the site receives the requested user information the site presents the user with a set of options at step for selecting the first digit of the PIN. This may be similar to step in . For example the user may be presented with a drop down menu wheel or other type if display showing the user different options available for the first digit such as general categories or subjects. This may be shown to the user on the user device from display that allows the user to select one of the options such as clicking or tapping on the option or placing a check mark next to the desired option. The options may be presented as words and or visual representations such as images.

The user selected first digit is then communicated to and received by the system at step which may be similar to step in where it is stored or buffered. This process continues at steps whether the length has been reached incrementing a PIN counter of not presenting the next set of options and receiving the user selected option until the desired length of the PIN is reached. Note that as with each succeeding set of options for the user to choose from may depend on the one or more preceding digits although in some embodiments succeeding sets of options may be independent from each other. Each selected digit of the PIN may be displayed on the same page as the current set of options for the user to choose from.

Once the final digit of the PIN has been received and stored by the system the PIN is confirmed at step . Confirmation may be accomplished through different steps or altogether skipped of desired. In one example the user is shown the PIN stored by the system and asked to confirm that what is shown is the intended PIN such as by the user clicking or selecting a button or placing a check mark by a button. In another example the user is asked to select the PIN in sequence again similar to numeric PINs where the user is asked to re enter the PIN. If the re entered PIN matches what was stored the PIN is confirmed. If the system cannot confirm the just entered and stored PIN for whatever reason the user may be asked to select a PIN again through steps .

Once the user PIN is confirmed the PIN is stored at step . The PIN is associated with the user such as through an email phone number account number or other user identifier. The PIN may be stored locally on a server or off site where the PIN is accessible for comparison with a user entered PIN when needed such as if a user attempts to access a site using a non numeric PIN.

Next in the use is shown a color wheel and a list of colors . The user can then select a specific color either from the color wheel or the list. Note that in this example the user actually selects a new category before selecting the second digit of the PIN as opposed to the embodiments of in which each new set of options presented is a new digit for the PIN. Here options is not a digit but just a precursor for the options for the next digit. In the user selects the color purple as the next digit which may be highlighted in the list and on the color wheel and shown in the center circle of the color wheel.

Once the second digit is selected e.g. purple the user is shown a list of purple birds in . The user is also shown the first two selected digits i.e. a bird in field and the color purple in field . In the user selects Martin for the third digit. Thus at this point the user has selected a non numeric PIN of Birds Purple Martin. A visual and textual representation is shown in . Note that the user may be shown a bird in field the color purple in field and a Martin or purple Martin in field .

If the user is first selecting a non numeric PIN the user may then be asked to confirm that what is shown is correct and desired. The user may alternatively be asked to re enter the non numeric PIN by repeating the earlier process. If the user is entering the PIN to access a site the user may be given an indication that the non numeric PIN was correct e.g. Success or incorrect Try Again .

User device merchant server and payment service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a smart phone of user in communication with the Internet where user is typically a person. In other embodiments user device may be implemented as a personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer PC and or other types of computing devices having an interactive display and capable of wireless computing data transmission and data receiving.

As shown user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as from a merchant shopping financial or content provider site. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface for selecting or entering non numeric digits of a PIN and or in connection with browser application as further described herein.

In addition user device may include a payment application that enables payments to be processed sent and received by the device. Payment processing may be with a merchant or individual.

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include display and processing of text audio or visual images on the device display such as the above described display that allows the user to select and enter non numeric digits for a PIN. User device may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device such as passwords and PINs or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment service provider as further described herein.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by an on line merchant or shopping site offering various products and or services in exchange for payment which may be received over network . Merchant server may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of user device . In one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products or services identified in database .

Merchant server may also include a checkout application configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services identified by marketplace application . Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from user and or from payment service provider server through any number of different funding sources over network . If desired checkout application or another application may also be configured to process or recognize non numeric PINs from user that is conveyed through user device to merchant server . Note that merchant server may be replaced with any suitable server maintained by an entity or system that requires a password or PIN from a user to access at least a portion of the system. Examples include financial institutions medical companies government agencies social sites education companies and institutions and the like. Thus servers would communicate content and other information based on authentication through a non numeric PIN or password.

Payment service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment on behalf of user to the operator of merchant server or to another user such as for person to person payments. Payment service provider server may include one or more payment applications configured to interact with user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services by user of user device from merchant server or another user as well as transfer money between entities or individuals.

Payment service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example account information may include private or sensitive information of users of devices such as non numeric PINs account numbers phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases or money transfers made by users.

Payment application may include a mobile payment processing application which may be configured to receive information from a mobile user device and or merchant server for storage in a payment database . Payment application may be further configured to match data received from a mobile device with information stored in payment database for payment authentication and processing. This data may include the user s device phone number email password and or non numeric PIN.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . A transceiver transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as a merchant server payment provider server or another user device. In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A display such as an LCD or touch screen is suitable for displaying non numeric digits receiving a user input or selected non numeric digit and processing the selection such as described above. An optional audio component such as a microphone may process voice or audio signals e.g. in making calls or speaking a non numeric PIN digit s . A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes various signals from display audio component input component for transmission within computer system or to other devices via a communication link through a network interface .

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM and a static storage component e.g. ROM which can be used to store non numeric PINs or passwords associated with a user. Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. Secure storage elements may be present within or apart from a main storage.

In various embodiments execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another such as processing free form actions performed by the user as part of a transaction process.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example selection of a non numeric PIN was described above as being based on options provided to the user by the system. In other words the user selects from a closed list of options. However a non numeric PIN may be selected from specific non numeric digits from the user such as downloaded or selected from the user. In addition a non numeric PIN may be used for purposes other than accessing content such as confirming a user when a user has forgotten a password or identifier. This can be used in place of or in addition to security questions. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

