---

title: Method for rapid charging and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method and an apparatus for rapid charging in an electronic device are provided. In a method for charging a battery of an electronic device, an operation environment of the electronic device is determined. A charging current corresponding to the operation environment of the electronic device is set. Battery charging is started using the set charging current. The battery is charged using a maximum allowed charging current, such that a battery charging time may be reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09634509&OS=09634509&RS=09634509
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD
number: 09634509
owner_city: Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-Do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141105
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Nov. 5 2013 and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0133791 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure relates to a method for rapid charging and an electronic device thereof.

Generally a portable electronic device such as a cellular phone a notebook computer a camcorder a Personal Digital Assistant PDA and the like has a secondary cell such as a rechargeable battery for example Nickel Cadmium battery a lead storage battery a Nickel Metal Hydride Battery NiMH a Lithium Ion Battery a Lithium Polymer Battery a metal lithium battery an air zinc storage battery and a user may charge and use a battery by connecting the portable electronic device mounting the battery thereon to a charger. The charger may exist inside the portable electronic device or exist as a separate external device. The charger may be connected to an external power terminal to supply power applied from the external power terminal to the battery thereby charging the battery. Also the charger may control power applied from the external power terminal to be supplied constantly to the battery. Here the external power source may be DC power output from an adapter for example Travel Adapter TA .

For example the adapter converts AC power of 220V to a voltage of 5V to provide the same to a charger or a charging IC inside an electronic device and the charger or the charging IC inside the electronic device converts a DC voltage of 5V provided from the adapter to a DC voltage of 2.8 V 4.35 V to control a charging current. Also the charger or the charging IC may provide a controlled charging current to an internal battery inside the electronic device to charge the battery.

A charging current of the battery is set in advance and fixed by a manufacturer of an electronic device. The manufacturer may set a charging current in advance with consideration of an expected charging time heat emission and the like. Recently as an electronic device such as a smartphone has a high performance in order to provide various functions for example an Internet search service a DMB service a location based service and a multimedia service heat emission problem emerges. To solve this problem the manufacturer sets a charging current passively. In other words the manufacturer sets a charging current in advance such that surface heat emission of the electronic device does not exceed 45 degree with consideration when charging a battery under a state referred to as a heavy use where applications that cause much heat are executed inside the electronic device by a user.

However since charging is performed using the same charging current set in advance even when a user does not use relevant applications it is inefficient. In other words since a charging current is set in advance with reference to an environment where predetermined heat emission occurs due to execution of an application a battery may be charged using the charging current set in advance even under an environment where applications are not executed by a user.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to provide a method and an apparatus for rapid charging in an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method and an apparatus for determining whether an electronic device is in heavy use and controlling a charging current.

Still another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method and an apparatus for displaying a popup window or a message window asking a user whether to perform charging in a rapid charging mode to control a charging current.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method provides for charging a battery of an electronic device. The method includes determining an operation environment of the electronic device. The method also includes setting a charging current corresponding to the operation environment of the electronic device. The method also includes starting battery charging using the set charging current.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the operation environment of the electronic device may include at least one of a processor occupy ratio a set display brightness a current consumption current Radio Frequency RF transmission power and a sensor operation for determining movement of the electronic device. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the current consumption current comprises a consumed current inside the electronic device when an adapter is connected.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further include measuring a current supplied from the adapter or a battery of the electronic device to an inside of the electronic device.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further include setting a small charging current when the consumed current inside the electronic device is large and setting a large charging current when the consumed current inside the electronic device is small.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure setting the charging current corresponding to the operation environment of the electronic device may include when it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is not a heavy use state setting the charging current to a first charging current and when it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is a heavy use state setting the charging current to a second charging current lower than the first charging current.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the first charging current may be a maximum charging current that may be raised up to a heat emission range allowable inside the electronic device and the second charging current may include a charging current value set in advance by a manufacturer.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further include displaying a popup window asking execution of a rapid charging mode wherein the setting of the charging current corresponding to the operation environment of the electronic device may be performed when the rapid charging mode execution is not selected.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further include when the rapid charging mode execution is selected entering a forced sleep mode to stop an application being executed or limit use of an application and setting the charging current to a third charging current during the forced sleep mode.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the third charging current may be a maximum charging current that may be raised up to a heat emission range allowable inside the electronic device during the forced sleep mode.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further include displaying a popup window informing information regarding stoppage of an application being executed limit of application use or a battery charging time reducible when the rapid charging mode is executed before entering the forced sleep mode.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus provides for charging a battery of an electronic device. The apparatus includes a controller for determining an operation environment of the electronic device. The controller also sets a charging current corresponding to the operation environment of the electronic device. The apparatus also includes a charging unit for starting battery charging using the set charging current.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the operation environment of the electronic device may include at least one of a processor occupy ratio a set display brightness a current consumption current Radio Frequency RF transmission power and a sensor operation for determining movement of the electronic device.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure when it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is not a heavy use state the controller may set the charging current to a first charging current and when it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is a heavy use state the controller may set the charging current to a second charging current lower than the first charging current.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the first charging current may be a maximum charging current that may be raised up to a heat emission range allowable inside the electronic device and the second charging current may include a charging current value set in advance by a manufacturer.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller displays a popup window asking execution of a rapid charging mode and the setting of the charging current corresponding to the operation environment of the electronic device may be performed when the rapid charging mode execution is not selected.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure when the rapid charging mode execution is selected the controller may enter a forced sleep mode to stop an application being executed or limit use of an application and set the charging current to a third charging current during the forced sleep mode.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the third charging current may be a maximum charging current that may be raised up to a heat emission range allowable inside the electronic device during the forced sleep mode.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may display a popup window informing information regarding stoppage of an application being executed limit of application use or a battery charging time reducible when the rapid charging mode is executed before entering the forced sleep mode.

In accordance with still another aspect of the present disclosure a method provides for charging an electronic device. The method may include determining whether an adapter is connected when the adapter is connected. The method may also include measuring a consumed current inside the electronic device. The method may also include setting a charging current corresponding to the consumed current inside the electronic device. The method may also include starting battery charging using the set charging current.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the measuring of the consumed current inside the electronic device may include measuring a current supplied from the adapter or a battery of the electronic device to an inside of the electronic device.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the setting of the charging current corresponding to the consumed current inside the electronic device may include setting a small charging current when the consumed current inside the electronic device is large and setting a large charging current when the consumed current inside the electronic device is small.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further include when the battery charging is completed displaying a popup window or a state display informing ending of the battery charging.

In accordance with further another aspect of the present disclosure a method provides for charging an electronic device. The method may include determining charging starts. The method may also include determining an active inactive state of a display of the electronic device. The method may also include when the display of the electronic device is in the inactive state setting a charging current to a first charging current. The method may also include when the display of the electronic device is in the active state setting a charging current to a second charging current lower than the first charging current. The method may also include starting battery charging using the set charging current.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the first charging current may be a maximum charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range inside the electronic device in the inactive state of the display of the electronic device and the second charging current may be a maximum charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range inside the electronic device in the active state of the display of the electronic device.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further include when rapid charging mode execution is selected entering a forced sleep mode to stop an application being executed or limit use of an application and setting a charging current corresponding to the forced sleep mode.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further include when the battery charging is completed displaying a popup window informing ending of the battery charging or a state display.

In accordance with yet further another aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus provides for charging a battery. The apparatus includes a controller for determining charging starts. The controller also when the charging starts determine an active inactive state of a display of the electronic device. The apparatus also includes a charging unit for when the display of the electronic device is in the inactive state setting a charging current to a first charging current. The charging unit also when the display of the electronic device is in the active state sets a charging current to a second charging current lower than the first charging current. The charging unit also starts battery charging using the set charging current.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the first charging current may be a maximum charging current that may be raised to an allowable heat emission range inside the electronic device in the inactive state of the display of the electronic device and the second charging current may be a maximum charging current that may be raised to an allowable heat emission range inside the electronic device in the active state of the display of the electronic device.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure when rapid charging mode execution is selected the controller may enter a forced sleep mode to stop an application being executed or limit use of an application and set a charging current corresponding to the forced sleep mode.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure when the battery charging is completed the controller may display a popup window informing ending of the battery charging or a state display.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

Hereinafter a method and an apparatus for rapid charging in an electronic device according to the present disclosure are described.

The electronic device may be a device such as a portable terminal a mobile terminal a mobile pad a media player a tablet computer a handheld computer or a Personal Digital Assistant PDA and the like. Also the electronic device may be an arbitrary electronic device including a device combining two or more functions among these devices.

Referring to the electronic device may include an application processor AP a communication processor CP a memory a speaker a microphone a camera module a display a touch panel a Power Manager Integrated Circuit PMIC a battery a cellular antenna a Front End Module FEM a short distance communication antenna a short distance communication unit a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit RFIC and a charging unit .

The application processor AP performs an overall role of the electronic device and may support an operation processing function a function of reproducing contents of various formats such as audio image video and the like a graphic engine and the like. The AP may drive an Operating System OS applied to the electronic device and various functions and the like and integrate all of numerous functions such as a core a memory a display system controller a multimedia encoding decoding codec a 2D 3D accelerator engine an Image Signal Processor ISP a camera an audio a modem various High and Low speed Serial Parallel connectivity interface and the like into one chip. The AP drives an OS and applications and may be a System On Chip SOC where functions for controlling various system devices interfaces are gathered as one chip.

The CP may enable voice communication and or data communication and compress or decompress voice data or image data. The CP may be a baseband modem or a baseband processor BP and the like. The CP may perform communication using a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM communication scheme an Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE communication scheme a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA communication scheme a W CDMA communication scheme a Long Term Evolution LTE communication scheme and an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA communication scheme.

The memory may store a software related program instruction set that may be executed by the above processors. The memory may include a high speed random access memory such as one or more magnetic disk storages and or a non volatile memory one or more optical storages and or a flash memory ex NAND NOR . A software may include an operating system program a communication program a camera program a graphic program one or more applications a user interface program a codec program and the like. A terminology of a program may be expressed as a set of instructions or an instruction set or a program. An operating system program may use various functions of a communication program a camera program a graphic program one or more applications and a user interface program a codec program via various Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The memory may further include an additional program instructions besides programs.

The speaker may convert an electric signal to a voice signal in an audible frequency band and output the same. The microphone may convert a voice signal to an electric signal.

The camera may convert light reflected by an object for shooting into an electric signal. The camera may include a Charged Coupled Device CCD or a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS and the like.

The display may output an electric signal in the form of visual information ex text graphics video and the like . The display may be one of an Electro Wetting Display EWD an E Paper a Plasma Display Panel PDP a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED and an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLED .

The touch panel may receive a touch. The touch panel may be one of a digitizer for a stylus pen a capacitive overlay touch panel a resistance overlay touch panel a surface acoustic wave touch panel and an infrared beam touch panel.

The PMIC may perform a function of receiving primary power for example a battery and converting the primary power into stable and efficient power used by a system and supplying the same. The PMIC may also perform a function of supplying power to a display such as an LCD and an AMOLED and a keypad and a lighting apparatus such as a flash and driving the same. Since a display or a lighting apparatus uses a high voltage efficient power management is used under a circumstance requiring a low power system such that not only simple power management but also power management via a smart function such as brightness adjustment by ambient light is performed.

Also the PMIC may perform a temperature protection function for protecting a circuit at a predetermined temperature or more an C interface function for communicating with a processor an overvoltage protection function an overcurrent protection function and a reverse battery protection function for protecting a circuit when electrodes of a battery are falsely connected.

The FEM may be a transceiver that may control a radio wave signal. The FEM may connect the cellular antenna and the RFIC and separate transmission reception signals. FEM may perform filtering and amplification and may include a reception end FEM mounting a filter that filters a reception signal therein and a transmission end FEM mounting a Power Amplifier Module PAM that amplifies a transmission signal therein.

The short distance communication unit may include various communication functions not processed by the processors and for example WiFi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC a Universal Serial Bus USB or Global Positioning System GPS and the like.

The RFIC ex an RF transceiver may receive a radio wave from a base station and convert a received high frequency wave into a low frequency band baseband that may be processed by a modem ex the communication processor . The RFIC may modulate a low frequency wave processed by the modem in the form of a high frequency wave in order to transmit the same to a base station.

The charging unit may supply a charging current to the battery to charge the battery . In detail the charging unit may charge the battery by converting power from an external apparatus ex a Travel Adapter TA into a charging voltage and a charging current used for charging a battery and supplying the same to the battery .

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the charging unit may supply a charging current to the battery depending on an operation environment of the electronic device . For example whether heavy use is currently performed is determined by a processor with consideration of whether one or more applications inside the electronic device are being executed by a user or whether background applications are being executed current consumption of an electronic device or a processor occupy ratio or RF TX power and a result thereof is provided to the charging unit and the charging unit may supply a relevant charging current to the battery depending on the heavy use state. The operation is described in detail with reference to flowcharts of .

Referring to the TA may convert AC power of 100 220 V into a DC rated voltage or rated current and provide the same to the electronic device .

The electronic device may include a charging unit a battery and a charging controller or a processor . The electronic device is briefly illustrated using the elements related to various embodiments of the present disclosure in the electronic device of .

In various embodiments the charging unit may control a charging current to charge the battery . The charging unit may convert a DC voltage provided from the TA into a charging voltage and a charging current used for charging the battery and charge the battery using the converted charging voltage and charging current. For example the charging unit may drop down a DC voltage of 5 V from the TA to a charging voltage of 4.2 V.

The charging unit may adjust the magnitude of a charging current using information regarding a charging current set in advance provided from the processor . The charging unit may perform a constant current charging operation and a constant voltage charging operation when charging the battery . The charging unit may proceed with the constant current charging operation that charges the battery using a constant current and the voltage of the battery may increase. When the voltage of the battery reaches a fully charged voltage ex 4.2 V the charging unit may make a transition to the constant voltage charging operation that charges the battery using a charging voltage 4.2 V of a constant voltage. While performing the constant voltage charging operation the charging unit reduces a charging current to the battery depending on time. When the charging current reaches a cut off current it may be recognized that the charging of the battery is completed.

The processor may determine whether the TA is connected via a power connection terminal. When the TA is connected to the electronic device the processor may determine an operation environment of the electronic device and set a charging current depending on the operation environment of the electronic device to provide information regarding the set charging current to the charging unit . Here the operation environment of the electronic device may be determined by one or a combination of at least two of whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates display brightness an average processor occupy ratio RF TX power and system current detection.

For example when it is not determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use the processor may set a charging current to a first charging current. When it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use the processor may set a charging current to a second charging current. The first charging current is greater than the second charging current and may be a charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range. The second charging current is smaller than the first charging current and may be a charging current that may be set with consideration when the electronic device is in heavy use. Also when the battery is charged using the first charging current a battery charging time may be shorter than a battery charging time when the battery is charged using the second charging current.

In various embodiments when the TA is connected to the electronic device the charging controller may display a popup window or a message window asking execution of a rapid charging mode. When the rapid charging mode is selected via a user interface the electronic device enters a forced sleep mode to end applications being executed or limit execution of an application. Before entering the forced sleep mode as illustrated in the electronic device displays a forced sleep mode entry guide popup window and sets a charging current to a first charging current. In contrast when the rapid charging mode is not selected via the user interface the electronic device determines an operation environment of the electronic device. When it is not determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is heavy use the electronic device sets a charging current to a second charging current. In contrast when it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is heavy use the electronic device sets a charging current to a third charging current. Here the magnitudes of the charging current have relation of the first charging current the second charging current the third charging current. The first charging current is greater than the second charging current and is a maximum charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range in a forced sleep mode. The second charging current is smaller than the first charging current and greater than the third charging current and is a maximum charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range in the current operation environment of the electronic device. The third charging current is smaller than the second charging current and is a charging current that may be set with consideration when the electronic device is in heavy use.

In other various embodiments when it is not determined that an operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use the charging controller sets a charging current to the second charging current. In contrast when it is determined that an operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use the charging controller displays a popup window or a message window asking execution of a rapid charging mode. When the rapid charging mode is selected via the user interface the charging controller enters a forced sleep mode to end applications being executed or limit execution of an application. Before entering the forced sleep mode as illustrated in the charging controller displays a forced sleep mode entry guide popup window and sets a charging current to a first charging current. Also when the rapid charging mode is not selected via the user interface the charging controller sets a charging current to a third charging current. Here the magnitudes of the charging current have relation of the first charging current the second charging current the third charging current. The first charging current is greater than the second charging current and is a maximum charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range in a forced sleep mode. The second charging current is smaller than the first charging current and greater than the third charging current and is a maximum charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range in the current operation environment of the electronic device. The third charging current is smaller than the second charging current and is a charging current that may be set with consideration when the electronic device is in heavy use.

Also in various embodiments the charging controller determines whether the TA is connected via a power connection terminal. When the TA is connected to the electronic device the charging controller detects a consumption current referred to as a consumption current of the electronic device hereinafter used inside the electronic device. The consumption current of the electronic device may be determined by detecting a current from a battery inside the electronic device or the TA to the main body of the electronic device. The charging controller sets a charging current corresponding to the detected consumption current. For example when the consumption current of the electronic device is large a charging current is set small. When the consumption current of the electronic device is small a charging current is set large.

Also in various embodiments the charging controller determines whether the TA is connected via the power connection terminal. When the TA is connected to the electronic device the charging controller may detect whether the display of the electronic device is turned on off and set a charging current corresponding to the display on off. For example when the display of the electronic device is in the off state the charging controller may set a charging current to a second charging current. When the display of the electronic device is in the on state the charging controller may set a charging current to a first charging current smaller than the second charging current.

Referring to the electronic device determines whether the TA is connected via a power connection terminal in operation and determines an operation environment of the electronic device when the TA is connected to the electronic device. Here the operation environment of the electronic device may be determined by one or a combination of at least two of whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates display brightness an average processor occupy ratio RF TX power and system current detection.

For example whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates may be used to determine a purpose ex games Internet search and the like for which a user uses the electronic device. The display brightness may be used for adaptively setting a charging current depending on display brightness with reference to display brightness setting. The average processor occupy ratio is determined by a processor operation clock for a predetermined time and may be used for determining whether lots of tasks are performed inside the electronic device. For example a fact that a processor occupy ratio is high may mean lots of tasks are being processed inside the electronic device. In contrast a fact that a processor occupy ratio is low may mean a few task is being processed inside the electronic device. Also the RF TX power may be used for determining whether heat emission inside the electronic device is high or low. For example under a weak electric field RF TX power may be set high such that heat emission may be high. Under a high electric field RF TX power may be set low such that heat emission may be low. Therefore when RF TX power is high a charging current may be lowered. When RF TX power is low a charging current may be raised. The system consumption current detection may be used for determining whether heat emission inside the electronic device is high or low or determining whether lots of task processings are performed inside the electronic device. For example when the system consumption current is high a probability that heat emission is high is high. When the system consumption current is low a probability that heat emission is low is low or when the system consumption current is high a probability that lots of task processings are performed is high and when the system consumption current is small a probability that lots of task processings are performed is low.

In other words the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is in heavy use currently with consideration of whether one or more applications are being executed by a user or whether background applications are being executed current consumption of the electronic device or a processor occupy ratio.

When it is not determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use in operation the electronic device sets a charging current to a first charging current in operation . In contrast it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use in operation the electronic device sets a charging current to a second charging current in operation .

After that the electronic device may start battery charging using the first charging current or the second charging current set in operation . Here the first charging current is greater than the second charging current and may be a charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range inside the electronic device. The second charging current is smaller than the first charging current and may be a charging current that may be set with consideration when the electronic device is in heavy use. Also a battery charging time when the charging is performed using the first charging current is shorter than a battery charging time when the charging is performed using the second charging current.

For example heat emission inside the electronic device corresponding to the current operation environment of the electronic device may be predicted and the first charging current that allows the electronic device to reach an allowable heat emission range under the current operation range of the electronic device may be predicted.

In various embodiments the first charging current corresponding when the electronic device is not in heavy use may be set in advance as an experiment value. Likewise the second charging current corresponding when the electronic device is in heavy use may be set in advance by a manufacturer with consideration of a battery charging time and heat emission.

When the battery charging ends in operation a popup window or a message window informing charge termination may be displayed. In various embodiments a state display indicating charge completion may be displayed instead of a popup window.

Referring to the electronic device determines whether the TA is connected via a power connection terminal in operation and displays a popup window or a message window asking execution of a rapid charging mode when the TA is connected to the electronic device in operation . Here the rapid charging mode is a mode where execution of an application is limited or an application being executed ends inside the electronic device and denotes a mode where charging is performed using a maximum charging current within an allowable heat emission range. illustrate a popup window or a message window asking execution of a charging mode.

When a rapid charging mode is selected via a user interface in operation operation may be performed. When the rapid charging mode is not selected via the user interface in operation operation may be performed.

In operation the electronic device enters a forced sleep mode to end an application being executed or limit execution of an application. Before entering the forced sleep mode the electronic device may display a forced sleep mode entry guide popup window as illustrated in . Also the electronic device sets a charging current to a first charging current in operation .

In operation the operation environment of the electronic device is determined. Here the operation environment of the electronic device may be determined by a combination of at least two of whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates display brightness an average processor occupy ratio RF TX power and system current detection. In another embodiment the operation environment of the electronic device may be determined by whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates display brightness an average processor occupy ratio RF TX power or system current detection.

For example whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates may be used to determine a purpose ex games Internet search and the like for which a user uses the electronic device. The display brightness may be used for adaptively setting a charging current depending on display brightness with reference to display brightness setting. The average processor occupy ratio is determined by a processor operation clock for a predetermined time and may be used for determining whether lots of tasks are performed inside the electronic device. For example a fact that a processor occupy ratio is high may mean lots of tasks are being processed inside the electronic device. In contrast a fact that a processor occupy ratio is low may mean a few task is being processed inside the electronic device. Also the RF TX power may be used for determining whether heat emission inside the electronic device is high or low. For example under a weak electric field RF TX power may be set high such that heat emission may be high. Under a high electric field RF TX power may be set low such that heat emission may be low. Therefore when RF TX power is high a charging current may be lowered. When RF TX power is low a charging current may be raised. The system consumption current detection may be used for determining whether heat emission inside the electronic device is high or low or determining whether lots of task processings are performed inside the electronic device. For example when the system consumption current is high a probability that heat emission is high is high. When the system consumption current is low a probability that heat emission is low is low or when the system consumption current is high a probability that lots of task processings are performed is high and when the system consumption current is small a probability that lots of task processings are performed is low.

In other words the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is in heavy use currently with consideration of whether one or more applications are being executed by a user or whether background applications are being executed current consumption of the electronic device or a processor occupy ratio.

When it is not determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use in operation the electronic device sets a charging current to a second charging current in operation . In contrast it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use in operation the electronic device sets a charging current to a third charging current in operation .

After that the electronic device may start battery charging using the first charging current the second charging current or the third charging current set in operation . Here the magnitudes of the charging currents may have relation of the first charging current the second charging current the third charging current.

The first charging current is greater than the second charging current and is a maximum charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range in a forced sleep mode the second charging current is lower than the first charging current and higher than the third charging current and is a charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range under the current operation environment of the electronic device and the third charging current is lower than the second charging current and is a charging current that may be set with consideration when the electronic device is in heavy use.

In various embodiments a first charging current within an allowable heat emission range may be set in advance during a forced sleep mode a second charging current corresponding when an electronic device is not in heavy use may be also set as an experiment value corresponding to a current operation environment of the electronic device and likewise a third charging current corresponding when the electronic device is in heavy use may be set in advance by a manufacturer with consideration of a battery charging time and heat emission.

When battery charging ends in operation a popup window or a message window informing charge termination may be displayed in operation . In various embodiments a state display indicating charge completion may be displayed instead of a popup window.

As described above when a user agrees with execution of a rapid charging mode explanation regarding the rapid charging mode is displayed as a pop up and then all applications excluding a charging function and a communication function are ended and a charging current may be set to a maximum charging current ex a first charging current within an allowable heat emission range.

When the user does not agree with the rapid charging mode whether the electronic device is in heavy use. A reference for determining this is a combination of whether a sensor operates a display brightness condition an average processor clock occupy ratio RF transmission power and a consumption current of the electronic device. Here when it is determined that the electronic device is heavy use a charging current may be set to a third charging current. When the electronic device is not in heavy use a charging current may be set to a second charging current greater than a third charging current and smaller than the first charging current.

Referring to the electronic device determines whether a TA is connected via a power connection terminal in operation . The electronic device determines an operation environment of the electronic device when the TA is connected to the electronic device. Here the operation environment of the electronic device may be determined by a combination of at least two of whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates display brightness an average processor occupy ratio RF TX power and system current detection. In another embodiment the operation environment of the electronic device may be determined by whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates display brightness an average processor occupy ratio RF TX power or system current detection.

For example whether a six axes sensor or an acceleration sensor operates may be used to determine a purpose ex games Internet search and the like for which a user uses the electronic device. The display brightness may be used for adaptively setting a charging current depending on display brightness with reference to display brightness setting. The average processor occupy ratio is determined by a processor operation clock for a predetermined time and may be used for determining whether lots of tasks are being performed inside the electronic device. For example a fact that a processor occupy ratio is high may mean lots of tasks are being processed inside the electronic device. In contrast a fact that a processor occupy ratio is low may mean a few task is being processed inside the electronic device. Also the RF TX power may be used for determining whether heat emission inside the electronic device is high or low. For example under a weak electric field RF TX power may be set high such that heat emission may be high. Under a high electric field RF TX power may be set low such that heat emission may be low. Therefore when RF TX power is high a charging current may be lowered. When RF TX power is low a charging current may be raised. The system consumption current detection may be used for determining whether heat emission inside the electronic device is high or low or determining whether lots of task processings are performed inside the electronic device. For example when the system consumption current is high a probability that heat emission is high is high. When the system consumption current is low a probability that heat emission is low is low or when the system consumption current is high a probability that lots of task processings are performed is high and when the system consumption current is small a probability that lots of task processings are performed is low.

In other words the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is in heavy use currently with consideration of whether one or more applications are being executed by a user or whether background applications are being executed current consumption of the electronic device or a processor occupy ratio.

When it is not determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use in operation the electronic device sets a charging current to a second charging current in operation .

In contrast when it is determined that the operation environment of the electronic device is in heavy use in operation the electronic device displays a popup window or a message window asking execution of the rapid charging mode in operation . Here the rapid charging mode is a mode where execution of an application is limited or an application being executed ends inside the electronic device and denotes a mode where charging is performed using a maximum charging current within an allowable heat emission range. illustrate a popup window or a message window asking execution of a charging mode.

When a rapid charging mode is selected via a user interface in operation operation may be performed. When the rapid charging mode is not selected via the user interface in operation a third charging current may be set in operation .

In operation the electronic device enters a forced sleep mode to end an application being executed or limit execution of an application. Before entering the forced sleep mode the electronic device may display a forced sleep mode entry guide popup window as illustrated in . Also the electronic device sets a charging current to a first charging current in operation .

After that in operation the electronic device starts battery charging using the set first charging current second charging current or third charging current. Here the magnitudes of the charging current may be the first charging current the second charging current the third charging current.

The first charging current is greater than the second charging current and is a maximum charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range in a forced sleep mode the second charging current is lower than the first charging current and higher than the third charging current and is a charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range under the current operation environment of the electronic device and the third charging current is lower than the second charging current and is a charging current that may be set with consideration when the electronic device is in heavy use.

In various embodiments a first charging current within an allowable heat emission range may be set in advance during a forced sleep mode a second charging current corresponding when an electronic device is not in heavy use may be also set as an experiment value corresponding to a current operation environment of the electronic device and likewise a third charging current corresponding when the electronic device is in heavy use may be set in advance by a manufacturer with consideration of a battery charging time and heat emission.

When battery charging ends in operation a popup window or a message window informing charge termination may be displayed in operation . In various embodiments a state display indicating charge completion may be displayed instead of a popup window.

Referring to the electronic device determines whether a TA is connected via a power connection terminal in operation . When the TA is connected to the electronic device in operation the electronic device detects a consumption current referred to as a consumption current of the electronic device hereinafter used inside the electronic device. The consumption current of the electronic device may be determined by detecting a current from a battery inside the electronic device or the TA to the main body of the electronic device.

In operation the electronic device may set a charging current corresponding to the detected consumption current. For example when the consumption current of the electronic device is large a charging current may become small. When the consumption current of the electronic device is small a charging current may become large.

In operation the electronic device starts charging using a charging current corresponding to the detected consumption current.

When battery charging ends in operation a popup window or a message window informing charge termination may be displayed in operation . In various embodiments a state display indicating charge completion may be displayed instead of a popup window.

Referring to the electronic device may determine whether a TA is connected via a power connection terminal in operation and determine a display on off state of the electronic device in operation . The display on off state may be used in the same meaning as a display activation deactivation state or a display wake up sleep state.

In operation when the display of the electronic device is turned on the electronic device may set a charging current to a first charging current in operation and when the display of the electronic device is turned off the electronic device may set a charging current to a second charging current. Here the second charging current is greater than the first charging current and may be a charging current that may be raised up to an allowable heat emission range inside the electronic device. The first charging current is smaller than the second charging current and may be a charging current that may be set with consideration when the display of the electronic device is turned on. Also a battery charging time when charging is performed using the second charging current may be shorter than a battery charging time when charging is performed using the first charging current.

For example heat emission inside the electronic device corresponding to the current operation environment of the electronic device may be predicted and the first charging current that allows the electronic device to reach an allowable heat emission range under the current operation range of the electronic device may be predicted.

When the battery charging is completed in operation a popup window or a message window informing charge termination may be displayed or a state display indicating charge completion may be displayed instead of a popup window in operation .

Referring to when a selection bar moves to rapid charging mode via the user interface on a screen of the electronic device the electronic device may enter the rapid charging mode. Here the rapid charging mode is a mode where an application being executed is stopped or execution of an application is limited and then the electronic device starts charging using a maximum charging current within an allowable heat emission range.

Referring to when the selection bar moves to general mode via the user interface the electronic device may enter the general mode. Here the general mode is a mode that starts charging using a charging current set on the assumption that the electronic device is in heavy use.

Referring to when an OK button is selected via the user interface on the screen of the electronic device the electronic device may enter the rapid charging mode . When a cancel button is selected the electronic device may enter the general mode .

Referring to when entering a forced sleep mode the electronic device may inform that a currently executed application is forcibly ended or information regarding a reduced battery charging time when charging is performed using the rapid charging mode may be provided.

Referring to a TA may convert AC power of 100 220 V to a DC rated voltage or rated current to provide the same to a charging unit and the charging unit may convert a rated voltage or a rated current of the TA to a charging current and provide the same to a battery to charge a battery. The battery supplies power used for an operation of the electronic device to a PMIC and the PMIC may convert power from the battery to stable and efficient power used by subsystems ex a processor a display a speaker a microphone and the like and supply the same. Therefore a consumption current inside the electronic device may be determined by detecting a current supplied from the battery to the PMIC or detecting a current supplied from the PMIC to a relevant subsystem.

Though various embodiments of the present disclosure have exemplarily described a charging environment that uses a TA it is obvious that the present disclosure is also applicable to an environment that uses a wireless charging method besides the TA charging method.

As described above a charging current is controlled with consideration of an operation state of the electronic device such that the battery may be charged using a maximum allowed charging current while a heat emission condition is met.

Also the battery is charged using a maximum allowed charging current while a heat emission condition is met such that a battery charging time may be reduced.

Also when a user desires rapid charging execution of an application may be limited or an application being executed may be stopped while the battery is charged such that a user interface that meets various consumer desires may be provided.

Methods according to embodiments described in claims and or the specification of the present disclosure may be implemented in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

In an embodiment a computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs a software module may be provided when having an implementation using software. One or more programs stored in the computer readable storage medium are configured for execution by one or more processors inside the electronic devices. One or more programs include instructions for executing methods according to embodiments described in claims and or the specification of the present disclosure.

This program a software module software may be stored in a random access memory a non volatile memory including a flash memory Read Only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM a magnetic disc storage device a Compact Disc ROM CD ROM Digital Versatile Discs DVDs or other types of optical storage devices and a magnetic cassette. Alternatively this program may be stored in a memory configured using a combination of a portion or all of these.

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Therefore the scope of the present disclosure should not be limited to the above described embodiments but should be determined by not only the appended claims but also the equivalents thereof.

