---

title: Predictive incident aggregation
abstract: In one embodiment, an incident report including a path segment identifier and an incident identifier is received at a computing device. The incident identifier is sent to a traffic prediction model. The traffic prediction model returns a traffic distribution value. The traffic distribution value identifies a portion of a traffic prediction distribution derived from historical data. The computing device accesses a lookup table according to traffic distribution value and the path segment identifier to receive a speed prediction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613529&OS=09613529&RS=09613529
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09613529
owner_city: Eindhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20140203
---
The following disclosure relates to traffic speed predictions or more particularly a traffic speed predictions in response to an incident.

Traffic Message Channel TMC and other traffic services deliver traffic information to customers. Traffic incidents and traffic flow are reported through broadcasts. Traffic delays may be caused by one or more of congestion construction accidents special events e.g. concerts sporting events festivals weather conditions e.g. rain snow tornado and so on.

In some areas broadcast messages contain up to the minute reports of traffic and road condition information. These systems broadcast the traffic data over traffic message channels on a continuous periodic or frequently occurring basis. Traffic message receivers decode the data and provide up to the minute reports of traffic and road conditions.

While near real time reports of traffic are useful challenges remain in the development of reliable and efficient predictive models for future traffic conditions.

In one embodiment an incident report including a path segment identifier and an incident identifier is received at a computing device. The incident identifier is sent to a traffic prediction model. The traffic prediction model returns a traffic distribution value. The traffic distribution value identifies a portion of a traffic prediction distribution derived from historical data. The computing device accesses a lookup table according to traffic distribution value and the path segment identifier to receive a speed prediction.

A relationship exists between traffic incidents and traffic speed. An accident on a roadway results in slower traffic speeds for a period of time along the roadway. In some circumstances the accident could result in delays on arteries leading to and even away from the roadway. Modeling this relationship has not been possible from data feeds due to the low quality of available traffic incident data and the lack of reliable prediction models.

If an accident occurs depending on the context of the incident and its severity there will be both an immediate and subsequent impact on traffic flow in the area of the incident and nearby connected roads. Even with high quality traffic incident data the breadth and sparseness in terms of descriptive detail how frequently any particular incident type occurs and in terms of frequency of events at a given location result in incident attributes that add noise to a predictive model of traffic flow conditions in the presence of an incident despite the colloquial expectation one might have to the contrary.

The following examples include traffic incident data of a higher quality and traffic speed modeling techniques tailored to the available traffic incident data. The traffic incident data may be divided into the type of incident. Example types of incident include road hazards vehicle accidents weather and other incidents. The type of incident may be further divided according to the location of the incident with respect to the roadway. Example locations include in a lane on the shoulder in a median and other locations. The data may also be divided as a function of distance from the incident or time since the incident. This multi layered approach to the incident data provides the requisite level of specificity to derive a predictive model for future traffic speed.

Traffic data collection system may include or receive data from an incident reporting device and or a speed data collection device. The incident reporting device may include a police scanner camera telephone text message a social networking service a mobile application or another incident reporting device for receiving incident data regarding incidents. The incidents may be reported by time and location. The speed data collection device may include a camera traffic sensors mobile probes e.g. executed by smartphones or another traffic collection device. Traffic data collection system collects the incident data and speed data and sends the data to the developer system directly or through network . The incident data and speed data may be compiled by the traffic data collection system or by the developer system as historical speed data and historical incident data.

The database stores the historical speed data and historical incident data. The server or another device at the developer system may develop a traffic prediction model based on the historical speed data and historical incident data. The historical incident data may be classified by type of incident location of the incident with respect to the center line of the path and or another factor. The historic incident data may include timestamps and or location stamps.

Later in time e.g. at any time after the traffic prediction model has been created the server receives an incident report including a path segment identifier and an incident identifier. The incident report may be generated by the traffic data collection system . The incident identifier includes an alphanumeric code that represents the type or category of incident. The alphanumeric code or another code may also describe a sub type or sub category. The path segment identifier describes the road and or portion of the road where the incident occurred or is occurring. The term path and path segments may include various types of pathways e.g. a highway city street bus route train route walking biking pathway or waterway . The term road and road segments may include paths for motor vehicles e.g. a highway a city street or a road .

The path segment identifier may include a road classification value. The road classification value may be a rank of a road segment that may correspond to its functional class. Example functional classes include arterial roads collector roads and local roads. The prerecorded path may include roads outside of the functional classification system. Alternatively an additional functional classification e.g. private roads temporary roads or personalized roads may be added to the geographic database to distinguish the prerecorded paths from other segments. Incident rates may be assigned to road segments based on functional classification.

The path segment identifier the incident identifier or both are sent to a traffic prediction model. The traffic prediction model may be executed on the server or an external device. The traffic prediction model may be a decision tree a neural network a fuzzy network or another type of machine learning algorithm. The path segment identifier the incident identifier or both are supplied to the traffic prediction model as inputs and a traffic distribution value is returned from the traffic prediction model. The traffic distribution value is a numerical representation e.g. single digit or decimal value of a traffic prediction based on the incident identifier. The traffic distribution value may be representative of the path described by the path segment identifier. Alternatively the traffic distribution value may be applicable to all path segments.

The traffic distribution value is a statistical place holder that represents the predicted traffic. For example a traffic distribution value of 1 may correspond to a predicted speed range of 30 40 miles per hour and a traffic distribution value of 2 may correspond to a predicted speed range of 17 29 miles per hour. Upon receipt of the traffic distribution value the server may access a lookup table that associates traffic distribution values with corresponding predicted speed ranges or ranges of percentage or fractional impact on speed or travel time. The lookup table may be selected or internally organized according to the path segment identifier.

The server may generate a message including data indicative of the predicted speed range and send the message to the mobile device . The mobile device may represent the speed range on a map including the path from the path segment identifier encoded with a graphical indicator. The graphical indicator may be one color e.g. green for high speeds a second color e.g. yellow for medium speeds and a third color e.g. red for low speeds. The graphical indicator may be directly tied to the traffic distribution value e.g. 0 green 1 yellow 2 red . As an alternative to color the graphical indicator may be a size of the path e.g. high traffic areas are shown constricted on the map the graphical indicator may be a vehicle animation e.g. vehicles are shown in animation at a speed proportional to the predicted speed the graphical indicator may be a speed value shown on the map with text or the graphical indicator may be shown in another fashion. Other application at the mobile device may utilize the predicted speed range. The mobile device may alter a route based on the predicted speed range. The mobile device may present a traffic warning the user. The predicted speed range may be set to decay over time according to the type of incident. The incident types may be assigned decay time periods from a few minutes to a few hours.

In another example the server may send the message including the predicted speed range to another device. One example application includes guidance for emergency vehicles delivery vehicles or another centrally controlled fleet of vehicles. In another example the server sends traffic reports including the predicted speed range to a television station a computer or a mobile device. The server may provide the predicted speed ranges to a traffic data application programming interface for various types of mobile applications executable by the mobile device .

The mobile device is a smart phone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer a notebook computer a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device and or any other known or later developed portable or mobile computing device. The mobile device includes one or more detectors or sensors as a positioning system built or embedded into or within the interior of the mobile device . The mobile device receives location data from the positioning system.

The optional workstation is a general purpose computer including programming specialized for the following embodiments. For example the workstation may receive user inputs for defining the number of traffic distribution value divisions or the statistical type of traffic distribution values. The workstation may receive user inputs for manually defining the speed ranges for the traffic distribution values. The workstation includes at least a memory a processor and a communication interface.

The developer system the workstation and the mobile device are coupled with the network . The phrase coupled with is defined to mean directly connected to or indirectly connected through one or more intermediate components. Such intermediate components may include hardware and or software based components. The computing resources may be divided between the server and the mobile device . In some embodiments the server performs a majority of the processing. In other embodiments the mobile device or the workstation performs a majority of the processing. In addition the processing is divided substantially evenly between the server and the mobile device or workstation .

Various types of distributions are possible for the historical traffic data. A normal distribution having a mean is shown in . The historical traffic data is divided by population into statistical groupings. For example illustrates five quintiles labeled through . The quintile corresponds to the fastest 20 of the speed data quintile corresponds to the next 20 of the speed data and so on until the quintile corresponds to the slowest 20 of the speed data. Other arrangements such as tertiles quartiles deciles centiles or any division of the data may be used.

In another example the limits of the divisions may be bound by standard deviations as shown in the alternative by the dotted lines in . Thus the divisions of data may not be evenly distributed by population. For example each of the regions between the mean to the first standard deviation may include 34 of the historical traffic data each of the regions between the standard deviation to the second deviation may include 13.5 of the historical traffic data and each of the region between the second deviation and the third deviation may include 2.5 of the data.

Other distributions are possible for the historical traffic besides a normal distribution. For example illustrate non gaussian examples. illustrates example set of traffic distribution values having a high traffic distribution . The high traffic distribution may include a quintile that is wide because proportionally less data is included at high speeds. The mean may be significantly lower than the speed limit of the path. The quintiles may be defined according to lower limits for the speed range e.g. and . illustrates another example set of traffic distribution values having a distribution . The distribution includes a majority of the speed data at or near the speed limit which creates narrow quintiles and . The distribution also includes a local peak . The local peak may correspond to the typical slow speed of a congested path. The local peak illustrates that distribution is bi modal and prone to congestion.

The chart may be set up in a variety of techniques. In one example each time epoch for each path segment for each traffic distribution value includes an entry in the chart . In another example each time epoch for each path across multiple path segments includes an entry in the chart . In another example each time epoch for each type e.g. functional classification includes an entry in the chart .

In the example of 15 minute epochs the speed data may be formatted into a 96 dimensional vector for each quintile or other division in which each of the 96 components describe speed data for a different 15 minute epoch. For example a quintile vector may have 96 components may be defined as right arrow over x x . . . x where n 96. A matrix may be formed of the five quintile vectors.

Multiple layers of incident attributes are possible. One example incident attribute includes location of the incident with respect to the roadway. Example locations include in a lane on the shoulder in a median and other locations. One example incident attribute may be the time since the incident occurred. Another example incident attribute may be the distance between the location of the incident and the location described in the path segment identifier. The traffic prediction model outputs a traffic distribution value which may be used to access a predicted speed.

For example the server may include a table of expected values for traffic that are indexed by traffic distribution value. The expected values may be organized by path segment and or time epoch. In order to account for the change in traffic when an incident occurs the expected value is adjusted. For example road X and 4 40 P.M. may have an expected traffic distribution value of 1. However when a road hazard in a traffic lane is reported as shown by entry in the traffic prediction model the expected traffic distribution is adjusted by 2 to an effective traffic distribution of 3.

Fractional adjustments are also possible. A fractional traffic distribution value may be interpolated. For example in a proportional interpolation when a traffic distribution value of 2 corresponds to a speed of 10 meters per second and a traffic distribution value of 1 corresponds to a speed of 20 meters per second a fractional traffic distribution value of 1.2 corresponds to a speed of 18 meters per second. Other interpolation techniques are possible.

The traffic distribution value adjustment may also increase the predicted speed value. In other words the traffic distribution value adjustment may be negative. Examples of incidents that cause increases in predicted speed resulting in negative traffic distribution value adjustments include upstream proximity from a hazard or accident opening of an additional lanes e.g. availability of express lanes or a high occupancy vehicle lane or a traffic volume decrease. The traffic volume may decrease in response to an event e.g. concert sporting event New Year s countdown or another event that encourages drivers to stay off of the roads. For example traffic may be light during the Super Bowl.

At act S the processor identifies a traffic incident type. The processor may extract the traffic incident type from a report received from another device. The traffic incident type may describe an accident a hazard a weather event a flow improving event or another event. The traffic incident type may describe more specific events such as an accident on the left lane an accident moved to the shoulder an accident with injuries accumulating snow high winds a tire in the road and other examples.

At act S the processor may perform a traffic prediction algorithm based on the traffic incident type. The traffic prediction algorithm may associate traffic distribution values with the various incident types. The traffic prediction algorithm may also adjust the traffic distribution values according to a time decay function because the traffic effects of an incident tend to decrease over time. The traffic prediction algorithm may also adjust the traffic distribution values as a function of the distance between the incident and the location for the traffic prediction.

At act S the processor receives the traffic distribution value from the traffic prediction algorithm. In some examples the processor receives the initial traffic distribution value and makes modification as time elapses. At act S the processor calculates a predicted traffic speed according to traffic distribution value. The memory may include a lookup table for various paths or path segments. The processor may identify a path to predict traffic for and select the lookup table or portion of the lookup table for that path. The lookup table associates the possible traffic distribution values with historical speeds for the path. The processor receives the speed that corresponds with the traffic distribution value output from the traffic prediction algorithm.

In addition the mobile device may provide location based services based on the predicted speeds. The controller and communication interface may receive speed predictions directly from the server . Alternatively the communication interface may receive traffic distribution values and the controller calculates the predicted speeds. The location based services may include map services routing services speed warnings incident warnings or other services.

For map services the controller may associate the predicted speed values with locations on the maps. The roads may be color coded as a function of speed or speed values may be displayed on the map. The input device may receive a selection of a road from the user and display a speed value in response to the selection.

For speed warnings the controller may receive the location of the mobile device from the position circuitry . When the mobile device is near or traveling toward a road segment in a low speed traffic distribution value e.g. 4quintile or 3quintile the controller may access a speed warning e.g. congestion ahead and present the warning on the display . The controller may compare the speed predictions for upcoming road segments to a congestion speed threshold. Example congestion speed thresholds include 20 miles per hour or 25 meters per second. When the predicted speed is less that the congestion speed threshold the display presents the speed warning.

The mobile device may also present incident warnings to the user. When the traffic distribution value is below a threshold e.g. 2quintile or any division the control may generate a message that there is a traffic impacting incident associated with a road segment ahead on in the route of the mobile device .

For routing services the controller or processor may calculate a route based on the traffic distribution values. For example when calculating a route between an origin and a destination many routes often exist. The shortest route may be selected. However when one or more segments of the shortest route are associated with a traffic distribution value below a threshold value because of an incident reported along or near the route the shortest route may not be selected. In some examples the controller or the processor may translate the traffic distribution value or associated speed with an equivalent additional time or distance that is added to the route.

The database may store or maintain geographic data such as for example road segment or link data records and node data records. The link data records are links or segments representing the roads streets or paths. The node data records are end points e.g. intersections corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records. The road link data records and the node data records may represent for example road networks used by vehicles cars and or other entities. The road link data records may be associated with attributes of or about the roads such as for example geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and or other navigation related attributes e.g. one or more of the road segments is part of a highway or tollway the location of stop signs and or stoplights along the road segments as well as points of interest POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The node data records may be associated with attributes e.g. about the intersections such as for example geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as for example gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The geographic data may additionally or alternatively include other data records such as for example POI data records topographical data records cartographic data records routing data and maneuver data.

The databases may be maintained by one or more map developers e.g. the first company and or the second company . A map developer collects geographic data to generate and enhance the database. There are different ways used by the map developer to collect data. These ways include obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities. In addition the map developer may employ field personnel e.g. the employees at the first company and or the second company to travel by vehicle along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and or record information about the features. Also remote sensing such as for example aerial or satellite photography may be used.

The database may be master geographic databases stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example a master geographic database or data in the master geographic database is in an Oracle spatial format or other spatial format such as for development or production purposes. The Oracle spatial format or development production database may be compiled into a delivery format such as a geographic data file GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats may be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases that may be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a physical storage format PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation device. The navigation related functions may correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases may be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer may perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

The input device may be one or more buttons keypad keyboard mouse stylist pen trackball rocker switch touch pad voice recognition circuit or other device or component for inputting data to the mobile device . The input device and the display may be combined as a touch screen which may be capacitive or resistive. The display may be a liquid crystal display LCD panel light emitting diode LED screen thin film transistor screen or another type of display.

The positioning circuitry is optional and may be excluded for the map related functions. The positioning circuitry may include a Global Positioning System GPS Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS or a cellular or similar position sensor for providing location data. The positioning system may utilize GPS type technology a dead reckoning type system cellular location or combinations of these or other systems. The positioning circuitry may include suitable sensing devices that measure the traveling distance speed direction and so on of the mobile device . The positioning system may also include a receiver and correlation chip to obtain a GPS signal. Alternatively or additionally the one or more detectors or sensors may include an accelerometer built or embedded into or within the interior of the mobile device . The accelerometer is operable to detect recognize or measure the rate of change of translational and or rotational movement of the mobile device . The mobile device receives location data from the positioning system. The location data indicates the location of the mobile device .

The controller and or processor may include a general processor digital signal processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA analog circuit digital circuit combinations thereof or other now known or later developed processor. The controller and or processor may be a single device or combinations of devices such as associated with a network distributed processing or cloud computing.

The memory and or memory may be a volatile memory or a non volatile memory. The memory and or memory may include one or more of a read only memory ROM random access memory RAM a flash memory an electronic erasable program read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory. The memory and or memory may be removable from the mobile device such as a secure digital SD memory card.

The communication interface and or communication interface may include any operable connection. An operable connection may be one in which signals physical communications and or logical communications may be sent and or received. An operable connection may include a physical interface an electrical interface and or a data interface. The communication interface and or communication interface provides for wireless and or wired communications in any now known or later developed format.

The network may include wired networks wireless networks or combinations thereof. The wireless network may be a cellular telephone network an 802.11 802.16 802.20 or WiMax network. Further the network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols.

While the non transitory computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP HTTPS represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

As used in this application the term circuitry or circuit refers to all of the following a hardware only circuit implementations such as implementations in only analog and or digital circuitry and b to combinations of circuits and software and or firmware such as as applicable i to a combination of processor s or ii to portions of processor s software including digital signal processor s software and memory ies that work together to cause an apparatus such as a mobile phone or server to perform various functions and c to circuits such as a microprocessor s or a portion of a microprocessor s that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present.

This definition of circuitry applies to all uses of this term in this application including in any claims. As a further example as used in this application the term circuitry would also cover an implementation of merely a processor or multiple processors or portion of a processor and its or their accompanying software and or firmware. The term circuitry would also cover for example and if applicable to the particular claim element a baseband integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in server a cellular network device or other network device.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and anyone or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a device having a display e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings and described herein in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein are apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it is understood that the following claims including all equivalents are intended to define the scope of the invention. The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

