---

title: Method and apparatus for notifying device users of a bottleneck status
abstract: An approach is provided for alerting device users engaged in various modes of travel they are creating a bottleneck. A notification platform causes, at least in part, a detection of movement pattern information associated with at least one device and at least one neighboring device. The notification platform also processes the movement pattern information to determine that the at least one device represents at least one potential bottleneck to a movement of the at least one neighboring device. The notification platform also causes, at least in part, a presentation of at least one message to the at least one device, the at least one neighboring device, or a combination thereof regarding the at least one potential bottleneck.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460617&OS=09460617&RS=09460617
owner: HERE GLOBAL B.V.
number: 09460617
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20140429
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been the development of location based services for improving the travel navigation experience. For instance some people get preoccupied with their mobile devices as they walk about a given area. Therefore they pay no attention to others nor are they aware of how their limited pace is affecting other pedestrians. Similarly in the case where a person is driving slowly along a narrow roadway the slow driver may adversely affect the pace of other travelers. Unfortunately there is currently no convenient means of alerting travelers that they are creating a bottleneck.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for alerting device users engaged in various modes of travel they are creating a bottleneck.

According to one embodiment a method comprises causing at least in part a detection of movement pattern information associated with at least one device and at least one neighboring device. The method also comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of the movement pattern information to determine that the at least one device represents at least one potential bottleneck to a movement of the at least one neighboring device. The method further comprises causing at least in part a presentation of at least one message to the at least one device the at least one neighboring device or a combination thereof regarding the at least one potential bottleneck.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to cause at least in part a detection of movement pattern information associated with at least one device and at least one neighboring device. The apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the movement pattern information to determine that the at least one device represents at least one potential bottleneck to a movement of the at least one neighboring device. The apparatus is further caused to present at least one message to the at least one device the at least one neighboring device or a combination thereof regarding the at least one potential bottleneck

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to cause at least in part a detection of movement pattern information associated with at least one device and at least one neighboring device. The apparatus also processes and or facilitates a processing of the movement pattern information to determine that the at least one device represents at least one potential bottleneck to a movement of the at least one neighboring device. The apparatus is further caused to present at least one message to the at least one device the at least one neighboring device or a combination thereof regarding the at least one potential bottleneck.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part a detection of movement pattern information associated with at least one device and at least one neighboring device. The apparatus also comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of the movement pattern information to determine that the at least one device represents at least one potential bottleneck to a movement of the at least one neighboring device. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a presentation of at least one message to the at least one device the at least one neighboring device or a combination thereof regarding the at least one potential bottleneck.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing a method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for alerting device users engaged in various modes of travel they are creating a bottleneck. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address this problem system of enables users of devices that are travelling by vehicle or foot along a travel path e.g. roadway walkway pathway to determine the source of a bottleneck. In addition system enables users to generate and transmit a message for alerting another device user that they are the source of the bottleneck for requesting an action be taken by this user to eliminate the bottleneck etc. Still further system enables users subject to the bottleneck to be presented with options for responding to the bottleneck. As will be discussed further the system may employ various location based detection techniques motion tracking techniques geometry determination techniques or the like for enabling one or more of the above described executions. The notification of devices determined to be the source of a bottleneck may be performed regardless of whether the source device is or is not configured to interact with the system .

In one embodiment a notification platform interfaces with one or more user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE configured with one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications . By way of example UE may include a mobile device tablet computer in vehicle navigation system or the like. Also the applications of the UE may be implemented as a notification application or service for presenting an interface for interacting with the notification platform . Alternatively the application may be a navigation application featuring various capabilities for generating and or acquiring navigation information e.g. driving and or walking directions maps location information as well as for interfacing with the notification platform . In the latter the notification platform may execute various application programming interfaces APIs for supporting the generation of notifications instructions and the like within the context of a navigation session of a user of a device i.e. UE .

In one embodiment the notification platform may also be configured to interface directly with a service platform which provides users of the applications with various location based services also collectively referred to as services . In addition the notification platform may interface with one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers that provide deliver content of various types and genres e.g. navigation content travel content locality content marketing content upon request. Requests may be initiated via communication network by way of the applications with respect to criteria and or request input. The criteria may include search criteria such as address information or point of interest information for accessing navigation information or relevant environmental information pursuant to a location based request.

By way of example the services may access turn by turn directions routing information maps driving instructions etc. In addition the services may maintain and or gather relevant point of interest information regarding different roadways lanes streets exits buildings landmarks bodies of water parks etc. The data may include specific geographic coordinates geospatial information and the like. It is further noted that the dataset maintained and or gathered by respective services may include information for supporting augmented reality applications or performing 3D interaction.

As another example a request may be initiated via the application with respect to content providers for determining information related to objects e.g. landmarks roadways buildings parks within a specific range of a user or UE . Content regarding one or more historical movement patterns of users bottleneck occurrences traffic patterns relative to a given location details regarding one or more vehicles etc. may also be accessed upon request. This may include municipality data or local ordinance data for conveying roadway speed limits bike lane locations and times commuter lane regulations traffic information content regarding local event or venue data crowd sourced information and the like. It is noted that the data accessed from or gathered by the services and content providers may be used by the notification platform to determine relevant environmental social locality or user related information.

In addition the platform may process the data to determine geometric and spatial relationships between respective users UE and objects for a given location or range of interest. Under this approach the relative positions orientations and placement of users UE may be determined. Furthermore changes or differences in the relative positions orientations and or placement of UE may be detected for distinguishing between users. As such in the case where a large queue of users are within range of one another the user at the front of the queue may be identified based on movement patterns of the UE prior to the movement. As such the platform may selectively transmit messages to only the UE associated with the bottleneck as opposed to all of the neighboring UE i.e. users at the end or in middle of the queue.

It is noted the UE may employ various range based protocols and or proximity detection techniques. As such the UE may determine the presence of other objects and their respective geometrical or spatial relationships. In one embodiment the range is based on local connectivity and therefore limited to a certain distance from the UE e.g. within sight of the user . By limiting the range the exchange of data between respective UE is also maintained locally thus ensuring the data of neighboring devices is between those within range of each other. In certain implementations this interaction may be based on permission settings privacy policies and the like as established by the users of UE per a user profile. Alternatively the interaction may be between UE configured to interact with the platform e.g. having established a user profile and UE that is not based on short range communication techniques.

It is further noted the UE can be configured to dynamically regulate the distance or range of local connectivity. This may include enabling the UE to switch between various connectivity protocols to more accurately detect the movement patterns of neighboring devices. For example the UE may dynamically switch between Bluetooth connectivity and Wi Fi connectivity both of which have different ranges for detecting neighboring devices and their relative direction position. If a neighboring device is initially detected by a UE via Bluetooth low range detection but later only capable of detection via Wi Fi long range detection this indicates to the platform the neighboring device is moving away from the user. As another example the UE may toggle between connectivity protocols in order to detect neighboring devices coming from behind the user as the user travel through a corridor. As yet another example when the user is in a crowded parking lot for a period of time the UE may detect the presence of an improperly parked vehicle creating the bottleneck. In each of these examples the notification platform processes the movement patterns then proactively notifies the user of the bottleneck the specific vehicle or UE their location direction etc. .

In one embodiment the notification platform uses the data provided by the services and or content providers to gather contextual information associated with users of UE other users of UE within a relative proximity of the user the location and or environment of the user or a combination thereof. The contextual information may include data for specifying the dimensions or spatial qualities of the travel path e.g. narrow versus wide roadway speed limit data relative to the travel path travel direction information relative to the travel path e.g. one way two way travel path type e.g. multi lane single lane dead end exit highway roadway or the like. In addition the platform may also identify obstructions along the travel path including those known in advance such as due to the presence of a building or landmark alternate paths and or routes for fulfilling a navigation session or a combination thereof. Still further the contextual information may specify information regarding vehicles associated with users along the travel path including vehicle dimension information vehicle type etc.

In addition to collecting static data the notification platform may also gather contextual information by way of the one or more sensors also collectively referred to as sensors of the UE and neighboring UE during navigation. For example the sensors may be used for determining unexpected obstructions that may occur along a travel path such as an accident roadwork construction stalled vehicle or other traffic encumbrances. It is noted that the gathering process may include both real time sensor based collection techniques along with static information culling based techniques.

In one embodiment the notification platform detects movement pattern information regarding a user of UE other users of UE within a relative proximity of the user or a combination thereof. By way of example the movement pattern information may include any data capable of being processed by the platform for determining a direction of travel speed of travel pace rate of travel path of travel type mode of travel a location and or proximity of travelers relative to one another or a combination thereof. The movement pattern information may be associated with pedestrian movement of a user e.g. walking or running a movement of a vehicle associated with a user e.g. bike car personal transport device an ad hoc movement of the user and or vehicle or a combination thereof.

Detecting of the movement pattern information may be carried out based at least in part on sensor data gathered by one or more sensors also collectively referred to as sensors of respective UE during travel along a travel path. By way of example sensors e.g. of a mobile device or embedded within the vehicle may be used as GPS receivers for interacting with one or more satellites for determining speed position and location data. In addition the sensors may gather tilt data e.g. a degree of incline or decline of the vehicle during navigation motion data temporal data sound data presence data and the like associated with the users members and or UE that comprise the group.

Still further the sensors may detect local or transient network and or wireless signals such as those transmitted by neighboring devices during walking of a user or driving of a vehicle to a destination. This may include for example network routers as configured within a premise e.g. home or business another UE or an intelligent communicable traffic system e.g. traffic lights traffic cameras traffic signals digital signage . It is further noted in certain implementations that the sensors of a vehicle may be identical to or configured to interact with the sensors of the UE for enabling data exchange and interaction. The exchange may be facilitated by way of any known or still developing range based or wireless communication protocols.

In one embodiment the notification platform processes the gathered movement pattern information and contextual information to determine a potential bottleneck along a given travel path. The processing may be performed after collection of the movement pattern information and contextual information for a period of time in order to build up a sufficient data set for characterizing the geometry of the environment the proximity of UE to one another motion tendencies speed characteristics etc. In addition the processing may be performed according to different groups of UE as classified by their proximity to one another. For example a first group may correspond to UE within a certain range of the user e.g. 10 feet while a second group corresponds to UE determined to be further away. By analyzing the movement patterns geometry and tendencies of UE on a group basis the platform may identify changes in speed of movement direction or timing that is most likely related to a bottleneck.

It is further noted that the platform may enable the storing of individual movement patterns. Under this scenario the movement patterns which may include a typical historic walking speed of the user a typical number of steps of the user a typical mode of transportation of the user etc. may be stored in connection with a profile of the user. As such this pattern information may be applied by the platform with respect to other neighboring users for a given location and context to readily determine if the user is causing a queue and or becoming the bottleneck. The user may also provide crowd sourced information regarding a particular bottleneck occurrence.

Furthermore the historical movement pattern information crowd sourced information or the like may be compiled for a plurality of users and subsequently analyzed by the platform as statistical data for predicting bottleneck locations venues or event types commonly associated with bottlenecks or the like. This corresponds to a feedback mechanism for enabling the notification platform to serve as a preventative tool. In addition the feedback information may be shared and or used in connection with a traffic service event service notification service etc. Based on this feedback the platform may cause the delay suspension or halting of certain executions of the UE or applications . As such an incoming notification e.g. SMS email launch of a messaging application or other execution may be delayed until the location and or venue statistically associated with a bottleneck occurrence is surpassed by the user.

In one embodiment the platform determines a difference in the speed of movement the direction of movement the timing of movement or a combination thereof between the at least one UE of a user and the at least one neighboring UE . The determination may be based on criteria information maintained by the notification platform via a criteria database . Criteria information may include one or more conditions or combinations of conditions that when fulfilled indicate the occurrence of a bottleneck. In addition the criteria information may specify one or more actions and or instructions to be applied by a user a UE or the neighboring UE responsive to a bottleneck.

For instance the criteria information may specify a minimum speed of movement to associate with a walking mode of travel for indicating a potential feedback. The criteria information may also specify a number of neighboring UE or positioning geometry of said neighboring UE relative to the UE of the UE in question for indicating a potential bottleneck. Still further the criteria information may specify an expected pace of travel of users for various types of vehicles and or modes of transportation. Hence processing of the criteria information may vary depending on the determined movement pattern information and contextual information i.e. narrowness of a roadway time of day motion types mode of transport vehicle type etc.

By way of example in the case where a user s walking pace is slower than the neighboring users this occurrence may indicate to the platform that the user is moving slowly enough to be a bottleneck. As another example the platform may utilize the criteria to detect an increase in the number of neighboring UE within the immediate proximity a first grouping range of a user of UE . Under this scenario continued entry of neighboring UE to within range of the user of UE with no change in the number of UE exiting this range i.e. into a more distant second grouping range may indicate a potential bottleneck i.e. diminished flow of users traffic.

As another example the platform may observe a change in positioning of neighboring UE wherein many are determined as being positioned behind the user. This tendency of the neighboring UE to not overtake the position of the user of UE may also indicate that the user is a potential bottleneck. As another example the platform may observe a stoppage of all users of UE at a point along the travel path where a known obstruction e.g. mechanical bridge or railroad tracks is located thus indicating that the obstruction is the potential bottleneck. Still further in the case where a movement of neighboring UE is to consistently go around the user of UE this may indicate to the platform that the user of UE is not a bottleneck as there is no significant reduction in the flow of neighboring users.

Hence it is noted that the gathering and subsequent processing of movement pattern information and contextual information per the notification platform enables applications to execute enable or fulfill navigation sessions upon request regardless the mode of travel. In addition the platform may process rich contextual details for supporting the identification of potential bottlenecks based on the real time movement of users along a travel path. Still further the platform determines based on the criteria information and gathered contextual data and movement pattern data which user of UE amongst a group comprising a specific range of UE is the source of the bottleneck.

In one embodiment the notification platform calculates a recommended action to be executed by a user the neighboring users or a combination thereof in response to a bottleneck. The platform may also calculate pertinent status information or details regarding the bottleneck for informing the user as they navigate the path of travel relative to the bottleneck. The recommended action or pertinent status information as may vary depending on the user in question the user that is the bottleneck versus the user subject to the bottleneck the mode of travel pedestrian versus vehicular travel the travel path airport walkway versus freeway or other factors. In addition the action to be executed may vary depending on the fulfillment of criteria.

An action database may be maintained by the platform for determining a particular action and or particular status information to apply for a given condition set of criteria being fulfilled and or a specific context of a bottleneck occurrence. Hence the action database may be accessed for correlating an action with a particular condition criteria a particular context or for supporting the calculation of an action to be taken. The calculation may be further performed in connection with the navigation service accordingly. It is noted that the action database may also maintain user specified action recommendation which may be applied and or recommended to the user based on the preferences of the user e.g. user established criteria .

By way of example the recommendation may include a suggested increase in speed of the user an alternate route or direction of the user for reaching the destination a stopping of the user until a later point in time etc. As another example the pertinent status information may include a suggestion of a point along the travel path for overtaking the bottleneck an expected duration of time of occurrence of the bottleneck an approximate destination of the user corresponding to the bottleneck an expected change in time of arrival information due to the bottleneck etc. This may correspond to travel management information for enabling the user to assess the severity of a bottleneck and its effect on the user or neighboring users during a navigation session.

In one embodiment the notification platform triggers the presentment of a message for conveying the recommendation the status information or a combination thereof. The message may be triggered to occur in response to the determining of the potential bottleneck in response to a change in status of the users due to the bottleneck or the like. In addition the message may also indicate feedback information regarding a bottleneck such as that gathered from other users along the travel path. The feedback information may include complaints user recommendations venue recommendations temporal recommendations or other details for enabling a user to manage the bottleneck.

As noted the message is context specific such that the message may be tailored to the context in which the bottleneck applies. Also in one embodiment the notification platform may be configured to only present the message in limited contextual scenarios such as only when the bottleneck applies to travel paths featuring limited space. Under this scenario the platform may cater the message and or limit the display of the message to instances where the user is in a corridor on an escalator travelling along a stairwell travelling along a narrow street travelling in a tunnel etc.

In one embodiment the notification platform may also trigger an enabling and or disabling of a function of the UE the neighboring UE or a combination thereof in response to the potential bottleneck. This may correspond to a safety function of the platform wherein the function of the UE is disabled to ensure the user is paying attention to the travel path or their immediate environment rather than the UE. By way of example in the case where it is determined the user is walking about an underground subway platform the UE may be temporarily disabled so that the user does not inadvertently walk off the ledge onto the electric tracks below accidently bump into other train goers on the platform etc. The safety preferences may be set as safety criteria per the criteria database accordingly.

It is noted that the presenting of messages to the UE the disabling of functions of the UE and the like are performed by way of one or more application programming interface API executions of the notification platform . In addition the platform may be configured to enable the presenting of messages atop other applications of the UE such that presentment of the message is prioritized over other messages user interface executions etc. Per this approach for example a message for indicating a user is a bottleneck to others as they walk along a narrow corridor of an airport may be caused to interrupt a user interface of a gaming application that is currently preoccupying the user. As another example the platform may detect and define the priority of the gaming application versus other applications of the device e.g. a messaging application . Based on the priority the platform may initiate an instruction to cause the game to pause until the user is no longer a bottleneck. It is also noted the platform may maintain a listing of priority actions services and applications to be invoked for defining the message content to be presented and or the criteria to be applied accordingly for responding to a bottleneck.

It is further noted that the determination of a bottleneck calculation of a recommended corrective action presentment of a message or the like need not be limited to UE that interact with the notification platform . Hence the notification platform may enable users to address bottleneck occurrences regardless of the configuration of the UE within a given local proximity. For example in the case where UE is capable of interacting with the platform while a neighboring UE causing the bottleneck is not the UE may transmit a local message to the neighboring device accordingly.

By way of example the notification platform may be implemented as a cloud based service hosted platform or the like for exchanging as well as receiving information from the services providers or applications . Alternatively the notification platform may be directly integrated for processing data generated and or provided by the services providers or applications . Per this integration or interface the notification platform may translate location based information navigation related content or the like as generated and exchanged during a navigation session into useful data for supporting the identification and notification of bottlenecks.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE notification platform the service platform and the content providers communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The authentication module authenticates users and UE for interaction with the notification platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to access the notification platform via an application . The request may be submitted to the authentication module via the communication module which enables an interface to the navigation application and the platform . Alternatively the communication module and user interface module may operate in connection with the authentication module to support execution of various APIs of a navigation application of the UE . Per these APIs for example the user may access the notification platform as a function of the navigation application accordingly.

The processing module may detect and subsequently process movement pattern information associated with a UE and or neighboring UE. By way of example the processing module processes the information to determine a grouping range of the respective neighboring UE to UE wherein the range indicates a proximity of the users to one another. A closer proximity of the users may correspond to a first range while a second and third range may correspond to successively lesser proximity of the neighboring UE to the UE of the user. In addition the module processing the movement pattern information to determine a speed of movement a direction of movement a timing of movement or a combination thereof of the UE and respective neighboring devices.

It is noted that the processing module may be triggered for execution based on the determined entry of another UE to within range of UE thus indicating the need for a bottleneck verification analysis. Furthermore the processing module may operate in connection with the authentication module to persistently collect historical movement pattern information crowd sourced information or the like. As such the processing module may receive and process this historical data as feedback for enabling subsequent analysis by the determination module .

The context module may process contextual information associated with one or more users the UE the neighboring UE or a combination thereof. For example the contextual information may include sensor information environmental condition information obstruction information and any other data capable of acquisition by way of the services and sensors of the UE and or vehicle. The context module may also operate in connection with the processing module to gather content from various content providers for determining information related to objects e.g. landmarks roadways buildings parks within a specific range of a user or UE . It is noted that the data accessed from or gathered by the services and content providers may be used by the context module to determine relevant environmental social locality or user related information. In addition the processing module and determination module may process the data to determine geometric and spatial relationships between respective users UE and objects for a given location or range of interest.

The determination module determines based on the criteria per criteria database whether a bottleneck condition is fulfilled. In addition the module determines which user and or UE is the source of the bottleneck. This determination may be performed by the module on the basis of determined difference in the speed of movement the direction of movement the timing of movement or a combination thereof between the UE of a user and the various neighboring UE . Also the determination module may access an action database for calculating one or more recommended actions or pertinent status information to convey to a user based on a determined bottleneck. The recommended action or pertinent status information as may vary depending on the user in question the user that is the bottleneck versus the user subject to the bottleneck the mode of travel pedestrian versus vehicular travel the travel path airport walkway versus freeway or other factors.

Still further the determination module may initiate various preventative measures at the UE or application based on historical movement pattern information. Per this information the platform may cause a delay suspension or halting of certain executions of the UE or applications . By way of this execution for example an incoming notification e.g. SMS email application launch or other execution may be delayed until the location and or venue associated with the bottleneck is surpassed by the user.

The user interface module may cause the presentment of messages to the display of the UE the neighboring UE or a combination thereof responsive to the determination of a bottleneck. This includes for example performing consistent updating of presentation elements and synchronizing the display of information to respective UE relative to their location along the path of travel whether they are the bottleneck etc. Of note the user interface module may operate in connection with the communication module for facilitating the exchange of navigation information via the communication network with respect to the services content providers and applications .

The above presented modules and components of the notification platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UE . As such the notification platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the application . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UE as a platform cloud based service or combination thereof.

In step of process the notification platform causes at least in part a detection of movement pattern information associated with at least one device and at least one neighboring device. In another step the platform processes the movement pattern information to determine that the at least one device represents at least one potential bottleneck to a movement of the at least one neighboring device. As noted the movement pattern information may be associated with a walking movement vehicle movement an ad hoc movement or a combination thereof. Furthermore the movement pattern information may include any data capable of being processed for determining a direction of travel speed of travel pace rate of travel path of travel type mode of travel a location and or proximity of travelers relative to one another or a combination thereof.

In another step the notification platform causes a presentation of at least one message to the at least one device the at least one neighboring device or a combination thereof regarding the at least one potential bottleneck. As mentioned previously the message may correspond to a recommendation of an action to be taken by a user in response to the bottleneck an instruction to be executed by the user or status information associated with the user as they travel along a travel path.

In another step of process the notification platform determines the at least one neighboring device based on at least one grouping range at least one grouping geometry or a combination thereof. In another step the platform processes the movement pattern information to determine a speed of movement a direction of movement a timing of movement or a combination thereof associated with the at least one device and the at least one neighboring device. As noted the geometry information may be based on the culling of data from various services and or content providers .

In step the notification platform determines contextual information associated with at least one environment associated with the movement pattern information. Per step the platform determines the at least one potential bottleneck based on a difference in the speed of movement the direction of movement and or the timing of movement between the at least one device and the at least one neighboring device. It is noted that the determining of the bottleneck is based at least in part on location information and or contextual information gathered in association with the user devices the users the neighboring devices or a combination thereof. Also the contextual information may indicate a narrowness of a travel path a presence of an obstruction a presence of an alternate path for passing or a combination thereof.

In step of process the notification platform determines one or more criteria for selecting the at least one neighboring device based at least in part on the speed limit the geometry of the at least one environment or a combination thereof. In step the platform causes at least in part a calculation of at least one recommended action at least one recommended alternate travel path at least one recommended overtaking point at least one expected duration of the at least one potential bottleneck at least one recommended movement speed or a combination thereof to avoid the at least one potential bottleneck. It is noted that the at least one recommended action the at least one recommended alternate travel path the at least one recommended overtaking point the at least one expected duration of the at least one potential bottleneck the at least one recommended movement speed or a combination thereof is presented in the at least one message.

Per step the notification platform causes at least in part a triggering of the presentation of the at least one message based at least in part on one or more travel management criteria one or more received complaints or a combination thereof. As mentioned previously the travel management criteria may correspond to information and or conditions for enabling the user to assess the severity of a bottleneck and its effect on the user or neighboring users during a navigation session. The alternate route information may be determined and conveyed based on this criteria as well. Also the complaints may include feedback information generated by various users along a travel path crowd sourced feedback information or the like.

In step the notification platform causes at least in part an enabling a disabling or a combination thereof of at least one function associated with the at least one device the at least one neighboring device or a combination thereof based at least in part on the at least one potential bottleneck. As noted the enabling and or disabling may be associated with a safety mode of execution of the user device with respect to the bottleneck or may include overriding a user interface execution of an application of the device to ensure display of the message.

Furthermore per this example the users employ different user equipment for interfacing with the notification platform and the associated navigation service. This includes for example a smartphone that executes a navigation application corresponding to user interface . In addition other users employ in vehicle navigation systems that feature a user interface . Still further other users operate in vehicle navigation systems corresponding to user interface . The notification platform performs one or more application programming interface executions for enabling the presentment of messages regarding a determined bottleneck.

In a device user as depicted by arrow is traveling along a path in a direction corresponding to the arrow. In addition other neighboring device users are also depicted as travelling within proximity of the user according to a second grouping range A for representing a greater distance from the user . The neighboring device users travel in the same direction along the same travel path i.e. as depicted by arrow . Per the notification platform the device of the user is configured to detect movement pattern information associated with the user and the neighboring users e.g. including walking pace information motion data speed information etc. In addition the platform may acquire contextual information regarding the users and neighboring users including location information travel path geometry information etc. It is noted that the movement pattern information is generated persistently as the various device users travel or remain in close proximity to the user .

In when the device user slows their walking pace such as due to their engagement with a friend via a video chat session as depicted in they inadvertently walk slower than other people around them. Resultantly the number of devices within a first grouping range B representing the closest proximity to the user increases as the neighboring users are subject to the bottleneck. In addition per the determined travel path geometry the platform identifies an obstruction which further limits the ability of the neighboring users to pass user . In response to the bottleneck the notification platform may be prompted automatically to generate a notification message to the device of the user responsible for the bottleneck. Alternatively one of the neighboring users may initiate transmission of a notification message for alerting the user .

In the notification platform triggers presentment of the message to the user interface of the user device of the user . In this case the notification message is presented atop the user interface of the video chat session as depicted per image to ensure the user views the message . As such the message intentionally interrupts the current view and or activity of the user for enabling the user to take action. The message specifies that the user is creating a bottleneck along with a few recommended actions the user can take to eliminate the bottleneck. As an alternate example the message may include content for indicating a time frame which the user has before they c

In response to the message and the recommendations the user decides to move to the side and cease moving. As a result this provides ample room for the neighboring users to pass by the user as well as the obstruction . As the user is standing still and to the side of the pathway to allow others to pass no further notification message is presented. This corresponds to an automatic closing of the notification message by the notification platform based on the persistent detection of the changing movement pattern information of respective users. Alternatively the user may close the message manually by selecting the close action button .

Of note in the case where the user does not respond to the message the message may be prevented from being closed per the close action button until the user performs at least one of the recommended actions. As another example the message may be presented repeatedly in the case where the user fails to comply. Thus the platform ensures the message is presented until the neighboring users are able to pass the user overcome the obstruction to pass the device user or a combination thereof.

In various users of vehicles and with in vehicle navigation systems are driving along a narrow roadway . The roadway is a two lane roadway that eventually merges per merge signals into a single lane. Under this scenario the lead vehicle is driving significantly below the allowed speed limit of the roadway and is a bottleneck to the drivers of vehicles and . The user of vehicle attempts to bypass vehicle but cannot due to the impending merging of the lanes.

The notification platform processes movement pattern information regarding the vehicles and contextual information regarding the roadway to determine that the user of vehicle is the bottleneck. By way of example the in vehicle navigation system user interface presents a message to the user of vehicle for indicating that the user of vehicle is the source of the bottleneck. The message also presents an option for the user of vehicle to send a message to the driver of vehicle for requesting they take action to eliminate or minimize the bottleneck. When the user selects the YES action button a message is sent to the in vehicle navigation system of the user of vehicle for presenting an alert message to the user interface . It is noted that car to car notification intelligent vehicle communication or various wireless communication techniques may be employed for transmitting the message. Still further the platform may initiate an instruction for disabling systems of the vehicle that may contribute to the preoccupation of the user of vehicle until the bottleneck is overcome. This may include disabling of an in vehicle entertainment system media player gaming system infotainment system or any other UE accordingly.

In this example the alert message indicates that user of vehicle has been identified as a bottleneck. In addition the message also presents various recommended actions the user may employ for responding to the bottleneck. A first action includes taking an alternate route by exiting a different road Hatfields Road than originally planned. The user may select this option by pressing action button which triggers rerouting of the navigation application per the newly selected route information. A second action button corresponds to a ignoring of the notification message . A third recommended action is also presented for indicating the user should speed up their pace so they at least match the speed limit of the roadway .

As the vehicles proceed along the roadway the user of vehicle merges into the open lane just behind the vehicle due to the impending merge . This corresponds to . In this case the user of vehicle ignores the navigation message or altogether fails to take any of the recommended corrective actions as presented per user interface . Resultantly the interface of the in vehicle navigation system of vehicle is caused by the platform to present status information regarding the current bottleneck per FIG. SI. The status information includes data for enabling the user to manage the bottleneck assess their options etc. In this case the status information includes details regarding the number of miles left before the user of vehicle can overtake pass up vehicle corresponding to the end of the merged lane . Also presented are details for indicating the time delay created by the bottleneck as well as possible exit routes for the driver of vehicle .

In addition the notification platform presents a recommendation for enabling the user to reroute the current navigation session based on the best available rerouting options. The best available routing options may be determined in conjunction with the navigation application based on current contextual information and motion pattern information pertaining to the current formation and or movement of the vehicles at this time along the roadway . Under this scenario when the user selects the YES action button the platform operates in connection with the navigation application to determine an option for the user to reroute via the Hatfields Road exit . While not shown a message may be generated for indicating to the user that selection of this routing option will result in the user reducing their delay time by 10 minutes as opposed to subjecting themselves to the anticipated 25 minute delay caused by the bottleneck.

It is contemplated in certain embodiments that the notification platform may also present messages for warning the driver they are an on the verge of creating a bottleneck. For example a message may be generated for indicating that incoming rain could cause a bottleneck at an upcoming viaduct that user is approaching. In this case the platform may process weather temporal and location information for determining the impending bottleneck. As another example in the case where the user is parked improperly the platform may generate a message that reads If the user remains parked improperly here for 3 more minutes it will create a bottleneck. Again this may be based on location information municipality information temporal information traffic data or other contextual information.

As another example the notification platform may also present messages for indicating that a driver attempting to park is inadvertently becoming a bottleneck. In this case the platform may analyze the movement pattern information to determine intermittent stopping reversal or other movement of the vehicle in addition to location and temporal information for determining parking activity. In response the platform may recommend a travel route that may unblock other drivers while still enabling the driver to find a parking space. Hence the notification platform enables users to detect pre empt and respond to bottlenecks.

The processes described herein for alerting device users engaged in various modes of travel they are creating a bottleneck may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network either use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to adapt navigation notifications based on a level of compliance of users to the notifications. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of adapting navigation notifications based on a level of compliance of users to the notifications. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to adapt navigation notifications based on a level of compliance of users to the notifications. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

