---

title: Adjusting data storage allocation for access point information
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media are disclosed for dynamically adjusting the amount of mobile device data storage allocated for storing information associated with wireless access points. The amount of allocated data storage may be determined or adjusted based on storage allocation parameter data such as AP density data, device mobility data, route data, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578596&OS=09578596&RS=09578596
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09578596
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140509
---
Information associated with Wi Fi access points APs such as Media Access Control MAC addresses of APs may be received and stored on a mobile device for a variety of reasons. For example Wi Fi AP information may be stored on a mobile device to reduce the number of server requests needed to calculate Wi Fi based locations for the device to facilitate faster authentication with an AP and so forth. Embodiments discussed herein improve these and other types of systems.

This disclosure relates to among other things systems methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for determining an amount of device data storage to allocate for the storage of wireless access point AP information. Due to limited storage on a mobile or other type of device Wi Fi tile data may need to be deleted in order to accommodate additional Wi Fi tile data. As such the same Wi Fi tile data may be deleted and re downloaded if device storage that is allocated for Wi Fi tile data is exhausted. Accordingly advantages of storing Wi Fi tile data locally on a device e.g. faster local look ups are negated by the increased bandwidth use and latency associated with the increased number of Wi Fi tile data downloads.

In one or more example embodiments a user device such as a mobile device may receive information associated with an AP e.g. a MAC address a Service Set Identifier SSID header information etc. from a server. Such AP information may be received for multiple APs in order to facilitate faster local device lookups in connection with for example Wi Fi based location services.

A geographic region that includes various APs may be referred to herein as a tile or a Wi Fi tile if the AP communicates with user devices wirelessly using any of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 communication standards . The receipt and storage of Wi Fi AP information on a device may be referred to as tiling. In certain example embodiments a certain amount of device data storage may be allocated for each tile e.g. 50 kilobytes . Further AP information associated with a particular AP may require some smaller portion of data storage e.g. 6 10 bytes . In such example embodiments the geographic region associated with a tile may vary in size in order to encompass a number of APs corresponding to the per tile storage allocation.

For example in a densely populated area e.g. Midtown Manhattan a geographic region of a certain size may include a far greater number of APs than a geographic region of the same size in a less densely populated area e.g. a suburb of Atlanta . In those example embodiments in which a fixed amount of data storage is allocated per tile the number of APs per tile may be relatively uniform. The actual geographic region covered per tile however may differ based on the AP density of the geographic region.

In other example embodiments a tile may refer to a geographic region of a fixed size e.g. a fixed amount of km . In such example embodiments the number of APs within a particular tile may differ sometimes significantly based on the particular geographic region to which the tile corresponds. Accordingly in such example embodiments the amount of data storage allocated for a particular tile may differ depending on the number of APs within the tile and thus the total size of the corresponding AP information.

A mobile device may allocate a static amount of data storage for storing Wi Fi tile data. As such Wi Fi tile data may need to be continually deleted in order to accommodate additional Wi Fi tile data. The number of Wi Fi tile data deletions and downloads may become relatively excessive when travelling through a number of different geographic regions in particular regions that are densely populated with APs. In addition certain Wi Fi tile data may need to be deleted and re downloaded many times such as for example Wi Fi tile data corresponding to APs located along a daily commute route.

Example embodiments of the disclosure include systems methods and computer readable media for dynamically adjusting the amount of device data storage allocated for storing AP information e.g. Wi Fi the data . The amount of data storage to allocate to Wi Fi tile data may be determined based at least in part on data corresponding to one or more storage allocation parameters. The storage allocation parameter data may include for example data that indicates a density of APs within a certain geographic region e.g. a number of APs having coverage areas that encompass a current historical or anticipated location of a device route data that indicates a current historical or anticipated route traversed by the device mobility data that indicates an instantaneous or average speed of the device and so forth.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure a mobile device may perform a wireless scan for Wi Fi APs that are within communication range of the device. In response to the wireless scan the mobile device may receive information including AP identifiers e.g. MAC addresses for APs that are within communication range of the device. The mobile device or another device such as a server may be configured to identify the APs within communication range of the mobile device based on the AP identifiers. Thus APs detected based on the wireless scan may be referred to herein as identifiable. 

The device may transmit a request to a remote server to determine a location of the mobile device. The request may include at least a portion of the AP information received responsive to the wireless scan. The remote server may calculate a location of the mobile device based on the AP information received in the request using for example Wi Fi based positioning techniques. For example the remote server may compare the received AP information to stored information indicative of known positions of various APs to determine a location of the mobile device.

In certain example embodiments the remote server may determine a location of the mobile device using other alternative or additional positioning techniques such as for example based on a global navigation satellite system GNSS such as the Global Positioning System GPS . For example the remote server may receive GPS coordinates from a GPS receiver of the mobile device.

Once the remote server has determined the mobile device s location the remote server may determine an amount of device data storage to allocate to storing AP information e.g. Wi Fi the data based at least in part on the determined location. For example the remote server may determine an AP density of a geographic region that includes the determined location. For a higher AP density the remote server may determine that a greater amount of device data storage should be allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data. Similarly for a lower AP density the remote server may determine that a lesser amount of device data storage should be allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data. The geographic region for which an AP density is determined may include one or more Wi Fi tiles of a fixed geographic size with potentially a variable number of APs and or one or more Wi Fi tiles of a variable size with potentially a relatively uniform number of APs .

More specifically the amount of device data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data may be determined as a function of the AP density of a geographic region that includes APs detected based on the wireless scan performed by the mobile device as well as potentially additional AP s . As a non limiting example the amount of device data storage to allocate may be proportional to the AP density. As another non limiting example the amount of device data storage to allocate may correspond to the sum of i some initial baseline amount of data storage that is allocated regardless of the AP density and ii an amount of data storage determined by multiplying the AP density by a proportionality constant. It should be appreciated that the above examples are merely illustrative and that any suitable function may be employed to determine the amount of device data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data.

The remote server may then transmit a message to the mobile device that includes an indication of the determined device location as well as an indication of the determined amount of device data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data. The mobile device may in turn allocate the appropriate amount of device storage and transmit a request to the remote server for the Wi Fi tile data. The mobile device may utilize any suitable mechanism to allocate the data storage for storing the Wi Fi tile data including without limitation a memory allocation command e.g. a malloc command a memory management system a file stub or the like. The data storage that the device allocates may include various forms of non volatile data storage e.g. hard disk storage and or various forms of volatile data storage e.g. random access memory RAM . For example in certain example embodiments the data storage that the device allocates may include first data storage and or second data storage where data can be written to and read from the first data storage at a faster rate than data can be written to or read from the second data storage.

In certain example embodiments the remote server may determine the amount of device data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data further based at least in part on other storage allocation parameter data associated with the device such as for example route data mobility data and so forth. For example the remote server may receive or otherwise retrieve data indicative of a current speed of a user of the mobile device an average speed of the user over some recent period of time a historical average speed of the user and so forth. The remote server may then determine that the amount of device data storage that should be allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data should be adjusted in relation to the mobility data.

For example a greater amount of device data storage may be allocated for Wi Fi tile data in scenarios in which the mobility data indicates a higher user speed than for scenarios in which the mobility data indicates a lower user speed. In particular if a mobile user is moving at a relatively high speed e.g. the user and thus the mobile device are travelling in a vehicle the mobile device may download an amount of Wi Fi tile data that quickly exhausts the allocated device data storage. As such allocating a larger amount of device storage for higher user speeds may prevent premature exhaustion of the allocated device storage.

In certain example embodiments a respective amount of allocated data storage may be correlated to each of a variety of speeds or ranges of speeds. Further the amount of data storage that is allocated may increase incrementally in relation to an increase in the device mobility state from a first state to a second state e.g. from a speed within a first range to a speed within a second higher range . In certain example embodiments the mobility data may be captured by for example an accelerometer of the mobile device.

The remote server may also utilize route data to determine the amount of device data storage to allocate to storing Wi Fi tile data. For example the remote server may receive from the mobile device or otherwise retrieve route data indicating that a user of the mobile device is travelling along a route that is repeatedly frequently e.g. a daily commute route . In such example embodiments the remote server may increase the amount of data storage allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data. In certain other example embodiments the remote server may transmit periodic messages to the mobile device indicating dynamic adjustments to be made to the amount of data storage allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data based on changes in the AP density along the route. In still other example embodiments the remote server may receive from the mobile device or otherwise retrieve data indicating a particular time of day during which the user of the mobile device travels along a particular path. In such example embodiments the remote server may transmit a message to the mobile device to increase the data storage allocated for Wi Fi the data during that particular time of day.

In certain other example embodiments the mobile device itself may determine an amount of device data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data. For example a mobile device may scan for APs within communication range of the device. More specifically the mobile device may send out probe request frames requesting APs within range of the mobile device to transmit identifying information such as MAC addresses of the APs. Alternatively or additionally an AP may broadcast a beacon signal containing identifying information e.g. a MAC address that is received by the mobile device.

The mobile device may then determine a density of APs that are within communication range based on the results of the Wi Fi scanning. In particular the mobile device may assess the number of APs detected based on the scanning to determine an AP density for a geographic region containing the location of the device. The mobile device may then allocate data storage on the device for Wi Fi tile data based at least in part on the determined AP density. It should be appreciated that in certain example embodiments the mobile device may determine an AP density for a geographic region that includes additional APs beyond those detected by the mobile device as part of the wireless scanning.

In certain example embodiments the mobile device may additionally or alternatively determine the amount of device data storage to allocate to Wi Fi tile data based at least in part on other storage allocation parameter data such as mobility data route data and so forth. For example the mobile device may capture mobility data indicative of a speed of a user of the mobile device which in turn may indicate a speed of the mobile device itself and the data storage allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data may be adjusted accordingly. Higher speeds may correlate to larger allocations of device storage for Wi Fi tile data.

Similarly the mobile device may assess route data to determine an amount of data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data. As discussed above with respect to the remote server the mobile device may capture route data from for example a navigation application executing on the mobile device and may adjust the amount of data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data accordingly. For example the mobile device may determine a planned route a daily commute route or the like and adjust the data storage allocation to ensure that all Wi Fi tile data that will be downloaded along the route can be accommodated without requiring any Wi Fi tile data deletions. In certain other example embodiments the mobile device may assess Wi Fi tile data deletions and downloads that may occur during a daily commute and may adjust the data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data for future commutes accordingly. In addition more generally the mobile device may track Wi Fi tile data deletions and downloads over some period of time and may adjust the data storage allocation in order to reduce the number of data deletions and downloads.

As previously described the data storage that may be allocated for Wi Fi tile data may include non volatile data storage e.g. magnetic disk storage optical disk storage etc. and or volatile data storage e.g. RAM cache memory etc. . The volatile data storage may be associated with faster read write access than the non volatile data storage. In certain example embodiments the amount of volatile data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data may be dynamically adjusted independently of the amount of non volatile data storage allocated for Wi Fi the data. For example in order to minimize the latency associated with hard disk drive reads the amount of faster read write access e.g. volatile data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data may be increased based on any suitable storage allocation parameter data including for example AP density data device mobility data route data or the like.

Example embodiments of the disclosure provide a number of advantages or technical effects. For example the dynamic determination and adjustment to device data storage allocation for Wi Fi tile data provided by example embodiments of the disclosure minimize the latency and monetary costs associated with the increased number of Wi Fi tile data deletions and downloads necessitated by static data storage allocations. In addition by assessing a greater breadth of types of data e.g. AP density data device mobility data route data etc. example embodiments of the disclosure provide the capability of making more nuanced and granular device data storage allocation determinations. It should be appreciated that the above examples of advantages and or technical effects of example embodiments of the disclosure are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described above. The above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the scope of this disclosure and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Accordingly variations modifications and equivalents of embodiments disclosed herein are also within the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments and additional and or alternative embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings.

The device storage allocation management server may include any suitable computing device including but not limited to a server computer a mainframe computer a workstation a desktop computer a laptop computer and so forth. The user devices A B and C may include any suitable user device including but not limited to a smartphone or other cellular device a tablet device an electronic reader device a desktop computing device a laptop computing device a multimedia content streaming device or any other suitable device.

The device storage allocation management server and the user devices A B and C may be configured to communicate via one or more networks . The network s may include but are not limited to any one or more different types of communication networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further the network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition the network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

As described above and as will be described in more detail below the device storage allocation management server may be configured to determine an amount of device storage that a user device should allocate for Wi Fi tile data. This determination may be made dynamically based at least in part on one or more types of storage allocation parameter data including but not limited to AP density data device mobility data device route data and so forth. More specifically computer executable code instructions or the like may be executed by one or more processing units of the device storage allocation management server to cause processing to be performed to determine device data storage allocations for Wi Fi tile data for various user devices. Accordingly the device storage allocation management server configured to execute such computer executable code instructions or the like may form a special purpose computing device.

In alternative or additional embodiments any given user device e.g. user device A B C may be configured to determine device data storage allocation for Wi Fi tile data based on any of the types of storage allocation parameter data discussed above. More specifically computer executable code instructions or the like may be executed by one or more processing units of a user device to cause processing to be performed to determine an amount of data storage of the device that should be allocated for Wi Fi tile data. Accordingly a user device configured to execute such computer executable code instructions or the like may form a special purpose computing device.

In still other example embodiments the device storage allocation management server may make an initial determination regarding device data storage allocation for Wi Fi tile data based for example on AP density data. The device storage allocation management server may communicate a message to the user device that indicates this initial determination. The user device may then proceed to modify this initial determination based on other types of storage allocation parameter data such as for example mobility data or route data.

In another example embodiment user device B may allocate X kB of data storage per Wi Fi tile and may allocate a total of N R X kB of device data storage for a total of N R Wi Fi tiles. Thus user device B may allocate a greater amount of device data storage for Wi Fi tile data than user device A. User device B may allocate a greater amount of device data storage for Wi Fi tile data than user device A for any of a variety of reasons. For example a user of user device B may be travelling at a higher speed than a user of user device A. For example a user of user device A may be stationary or travelling at a lower speed than a user of user device B. As another non limiting example a route traversed by a user of user device B e.g. a commute route may pass through the coverage areas of a greater number of APs than a route traversed by a user of user device A and thus a larger allocation of device data storage for Wi Fi tile data may be required for user device B in order to accommodate the greater number of Wi Fi tile data downloads. In yet another non limiting example an AP density of a geographic region encompassing a location of user device B may be greater than an AP density of a geographic region encompassing a location of user device A. It should be appreciated that the above examples of scenarios that may result in a greater allocation of device data storage for Wi Fi tile data for user device B as compared to user device A are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

In another example embodiment user device C may allocate a different amount of device data storage for data corresponding to each Wi Fi tile. For example data corresponding to a first Wi Fi tile e.g. Tile 1 may be allocated X R kB of data storage data corresponding to a second Wi Fi tile e.g. Tile 2 may be allocated X S kB of data storage data corresponding to a Jth Wi Fi the e.g. Tile J may be allocated X Z kB of data storage and so forth. In such embodiments each tile may correspond to a relatively uniform physical area and the number of APs located within each tile may vary.

The amount of data storage allocated for each tile as well as the total device data storage allocated for all Wi Fi tile data may be dynamically determined based on any of a variety of types of storage allocation parameter data such as for example AP density data device mobility data route data or the like. For example Tile 3 may have a greater AP density than Tile 2 in which case the X T kB of data storage allocated for Tile 3 may be greater than the X S kB of data allocated for Tile 2. As another non limiting example the total amount of storage allocated for all Tiles 1 through J may be dynamically determined based at least in part on mobility data e.g. a user speed route data e.g. a current planned or historical user route and so forth.

The architecture may include one or more device storage allocation management servers and one or more user devices . In an illustrative embodiment the device storage allocation management server s may include one or more of the device storage allocation management server s . Similarly the user device s may include one or more of the user devices A B and C. In addition the device storage allocation management server s and the user device s may be configured to communicate via one or more networks which may include any one or more of the network s . For ease of explanation and without limitation the device storage allocation management server s and the user device s will be referred to hereinafter in the singular.

In an illustrative configuration the device storage allocation management server may include one or more processors processor s one or more memory devices generically referred to herein as memory one or more input output I O interface s one or more network interfaces and data storage . These various components will be described in more detail hereinafter.

The memory of the device storage allocation management server may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as various forms of random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The data storage may include storage that is internal and or external to the device storage allocation management server . The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause various operations to be performed. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non transient storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more operating systems O S one or more database management systems DBMS and one or more program modules applications or the like such as for example one or more location determination modules one or more device storage allocation determination modules and so forth.

The location determination module s may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause operations to be performed for determining a location of a user device . For example the location determination module s may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution may cause a location of a user device to be determined responsive to receipt of a request from the user device . In certain example embodiments a request received from a user device may include identifying information e.g. MAC addresses corresponding to APs detected by the user device during a Wi Fi scan. Computer executable instructions of the location determination module s may be executed to compare the received AP identifying information to stored AP identifying information corresponding to APs having known locations in order to determine a location of the user device in accordance with a Wi Fi based positioning technique. In other example embodiments the location determination module s may be configured to determine a user device s location based on alternative or additional positioning techniques such as for example based on GPS information e.g. GPS coordinates received from a user device .

The device storage allocation determination module s may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause operations to be performed to determine an amount of data storage on a user device to be allocated for Wi Fi tile data. In accordance with various example embodiments described herein the device storage allocation module s may determine device storage allocation for Wi Fi tile data based on any of a variety of types of storage allocation parameter data including for example route data A mobility data B AP density data C and so forth. More specifically as described herein the device storage allocation determination module s may be configured to dynamically determine the amount of volatile and or non volatile data storage to be allocated for Wi Fi tile data stored on a user device based on a current state of the user device and or changes in state of the user device indicated by at least a portion of the route data A at least a portion of the mobility data B and or at least a portion of the AP density data C. The amount of device data storage allocated for the storage of Wi Fi tile data may be determined based on any suitable function that may receive at least a portion of the route data A at least a portion of the mobility data B and or at least a portion of the AP density data C as input.

The device storage allocation management server may transmit a message to the user device that indicates an amount of data storage to allocate to Wi Fi tile data as determined by the device storage allocation determination module s . In certain example embodiments the device storage allocation management server may also store and transmit to the user device the Wi Fi tile data. In other example embodiments one or more other servers may store the Wi Fi tile data.

In certain example embodiments the route data A mobility data B and or AP density data C may include data corresponding to multiple user devices . As such to determine device storage allocation for a particular user device the device storage allocation determination module s may utilize that portion of the route data A mobility data B and or AP density data C corresponding to the particular user device and or a location of the particular user device . The datastore s illustratively depicted in as containing the data A B and C may be internal to the device storage allocation management server e.g. datastore s forming part of the data storage or external datastore s . Further any of the data illustratively depicted as being stored in the datastore s may be loaded into the memory as needed. Any portion of the route data A the mobility data B and or the AP density data C may be received from user devices via a push or pull mechanism. Alternatively certain data e.g. the AP density data C may be independently gathered by the device storage allocation management server .

Referring now to other illustrative components of the device storage allocation management server the O S may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and may provide an interface between other application software executing on the device storage allocation management server and hardware resources of device storage allocation management server . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the device storage allocation management server and for providing common services to other application programs e.g. managing memory allocation among various application programs . The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any server operating system any mainframe operating system or any other proprietary or non proprietary operating system.

The DBMS may be loaded into the memory and may support functionality for accessing retrieving storing and or manipulating data stored in one or more of the datastores data stored in the memory and or data stored in the data storage . The DBMS may use any of a variety of database models e.g. relational model object model etc. and may support any of a variety of query languages. The datastore s may include any suitable data repository including but not limited to databases e.g. relational object oriented etc. file systems flat files distributed datastores in which data is stored on more than one node of a computer network peer to peer network datastores or the like. Any of the datastore s may represent data in one or more data schemas.

The processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the processor s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the device storage allocation management server to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

The device storage allocation management server may further include one or more input output I O interfaces that may facilitate the receipt of input information by the device storage allocation management server from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the device storage allocation management server to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the device storage allocation management server including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

The device storage allocation management server may be configured to communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth e.g. a user device via one or more of the network s . The device storage allocation management server may include one or more network interfaces that may facilitate communication between the device storage allocation management server and any of the systems networks platforms devices or components of the system architecture .

Referring now to other illustrative components of the architecture in an illustrative configuration the user device may include one or more processors processor s one or more memory devices generically referred to herein as memory one or more input output I O interface s one or more network interfaces one or more sensors one or more transceivers and data storage . The user device may further include a cellular antenna for transmitting or receiving signals to from a cellular network infrastructure an antenna for transmitting or receiving Wi Fi signals to from an AP an antenna for receiving GNSS signals from a GNSS satellite and one or more other antenna s such as for example a Bluetooth antenna for transmitting or receiving Bluetooth signals a Near Field Communication NFC antenna for transmitting or receiving NFC signals and so forth. These various components will be described in more detail hereinafter.

The antennas and may include any suitable type of antenna depending for example on the communications protocols used to transmit or receive signals via the antennas and . Non limiting examples of suitable antennas may include directional antennas non directional antennas dipole antennas folded dipole antennas patch antennas multiple input multiple output MIMO antennas or the like. The antennas and may be communicatively coupled to one or more transceivers or radio components to which or from which signals may be transmitted or received.

The cellular antenna may be configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3G standards e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA CDMA2000 etc. 4G standards e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE WiMax etc. direct satellite communications or the like.

The Wi Fi antenna may be configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards including via 2.4 GHz channels e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 5 GHz channels e.g. 802.11n 802.11 ac or 60 GHZ channels e.g. 802.11 ad . In alternative example embodiments the antenna may be configured to transmit or receive radio frequency signals within any suitable frequency range forming part of the unlicensed portion of the radio spectrum.

The GNSS antenna may be configured to receive GNSS signals from three or more GNSS satellites carrying time position information to triangulate a position therefrom. The GNSS antenna may be configured to receive GNSS signals from any current or planned GNSS such as for example the Global Positioning System GPS the GLONASS System the Compass Navigation System the Galileo System or the Indian Regional Navigational System.

The transceiver s may include any suitable radio component s for in cooperation with the antennas and transmitting or receiving radio frequency RF signals in the bandwidth and or channels corresponding to the communications protocols utilized by the user device to communicate with other devices. The transceiver s may include hardware software and or firmware for modulating transmitting or receiving potentially in cooperation with any of antennas and communications signals according to any of the communications protocols discussed above including but not limited to one or more Wi Fi and or Wi Fi direct protocols as standardized by the IEEE 802.11 standards one or more non Wi Fi protocols or one or more cellular communications protocols or standards. The transceiver s may further include hardware firmware or software for receiving GNSS signals via for example the antenna . The transceiver s may include any known receiver and baseband suitable for communicating via the communications protocols utilized by the user device . The transceiver s may further include a low noise amplifier LNA additional signal amplifiers an analog to digital A D converter one or more buffers digital baseband or the like.

The sensor s may include any suitable type of sensing device such as for example inertial sensors force sensors thermal sensors and so forth. Example types of inertial sensors may include accelerometers e.g. MEMS based accelerometers gyroscopes and so forth.

The memory of the user device may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as any of the types of memory described with reference to the memory of the device storage allocation management server . The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause various operations to be performed. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non transient storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more operating systems O S one or more database management systems DBMS and one or more program modules applications or the like such as for example one or more device storage allocation determination modules one or more location determination module s and so forth. In addition the data storage may store various types of data such as for example storage allocation parameter data .

The storage allocation parameter data may include for example route data A mobility data B and or AP density data C. The route data A may include data indicative of a current anticipated and or historical route traversed by the user device . The mobility data B may include data indicative of a current anticipated or historical mobility state e.g. user speed of the user device . The AP density data C may include data indicative of a respective AP density for one or more geographic regions which may include a geographic region that encompasses a current location of the user device and or a geographic region that encompasses a historical or anticipated location of the user device .

The location determination module s may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause operations to be performed for determining a location of a user device . For example the location determination module s may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution may cause a location of a user device to be determined responsive to receipt of location information from the device storage allocation management server . In other example embodiments the location determination module s may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution may cause a location of the user device to be determined based at least in part on locally stored Wi Fi tile data. In other example embodiments the location determination module s may be configured to determine a location of the user device based on GNSS signals received via the GNSS antenna .

The device storage allocation determination module s may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause operations to be performed to determine an amount of data storage of the user device that should be allocated for Wi Fi tile data. In accordance with various example embodiments described herein the device storage allocation module s may determine device storage allocation for Wi Fi tile data based on any of a variety of types of storage allocation parameter data including for example the route data A the mobility data B the AP density data C and so forth. More specifically as described herein the device storage allocation determination module s may be configured to dynamically determine the amount of volatile and or non volatile data storage of the user device to be allocated for Wi Fi tile data based on a current state of the user device and or changes in state of the user device indicated by at least a portion of the route data A at least a portion of the mobility data B and or at least a portion of the AP density data C.

Referring now to other illustrative components of the user device the O S may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and may provide an interface between other application software executing on the user device and hardware resources of the user device . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the user device and for providing common services to other application programs e.g. managing memory allocation among various application programs . The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any server operating system any mainframe operating system or any other proprietary or non proprietary operating system.

The DBMS may be loaded into the memory and may support functionality for accessing retrieving storing and or manipulating data stored in the memory and or data stored in the data storage . The DBMS may use any of a variety of database models e.g. relational model object model etc. and may support any of a variety of query languages. The DBMS may access data represented in one or more data schemas and stored in any suitable data repository including but not limited to databases e.g. relational object oriented etc. file systems flat files distributed datastores in which data is stored on more than one node of a computer network peer to peer network datastores or the like.

The processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the processor s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the user device to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

The user device may further include one or more input output I O interfaces that may facilitate the receipt of input information by the user device from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the user device to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the user device including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

The user device may be configured to communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth e.g. the device storage allocation management server via one or more of the network s . The user device may include one or more network interfaces that may facilitate communication between the user device and any of the systems networks platforms devices or components of the system architecture .

It should be appreciated that the program modules applications computer executable instructions code or the like depicted in as being stored in the data storage and or the data storage are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that processing described as being supported by any particular module may alternatively be distributed across multiple modules or performed by a different module. In addition various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on the device storage allocation management server the user device and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more of the network s may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code depicted in and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules depicted in may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices of the system architecture in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules depicted in may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that the device storage allocation management server and or the user device may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of any entity included in the architecture are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

At block the device storage allocation management server may receive a location request from a mobile device. The mobile device may be a user device having the illustrative configuration depicted in . The location request may include identifying information e.g. MAC addresses for APs detected by the mobile device as part of for example a Wi Fi scan.

At block computer executable instructions of the location determination module s may be executed to determine a location of the mobile device. The location determination module s may be configured to calculate a location of the mobile device based on the AP information received in the request from the mobile device using for example Wi Fi based positioning techniques. For example the computer executable instructions of the location determination module s may be executed to compare the received AP information to stored information indicative of known positions of various APs to determine a location of the mobile device. In certain example embodiments the location determination module s may be configured to determine a location of the mobile device using other alternative or additional positioning techniques such as for example based on GPS information received from the mobile device.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to determine an AP density of a geographic region that includes the determined location of the mobile device. The geographic region may include for example a Wi Fi tile that includes the determined location. The AP density may be determined from for example the stored AP density data C. The AP density may be a number of APs located within the geographic region. Alternatively the AP density may be reflected as a number of APs per unit area.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to identify other storage allocation parameter data. The data identified at block may include for example a portion of the route data A corresponding to the mobile device a portion of the mobility data B corresponding to the mobile device and so forth. For example the device storage allocation determination module s may identify a current route being traversed by a user of the mobile device a planned route e.g. a route mapped out using a navigation application executing on the mobile device historical route data e.g. a daily commute for a user of the mobile device and so forth. In certain example embodiments the device storage allocation determination module s may further identify a respective AP density corresponding to each of one or more geographic regions e.g. Wi Fi tiles in addition to the geographic region that includes the location of the mobile device determined at block . For example the device storage allocation determination module s may determine AP densities at various points along a current planned or historical route associated with the mobile device.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to determine based at least in part on the AP density determined at block and or the other storage allocation parameter data identified at block an amount of data storage of the mobile device to allocate to storing AP information e.g. Wi Fi the data . As a non limiting example the higher the AP density determined at block the greater the amount of mobile device data storage the device storage allocation determination module s may determine should be allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data.

At block the device storage allocation determination module s may generate and transmit or direct the transmission of a message to the mobile device that includes an indication of the determined location of the mobile device as well as an indication of the amount of data storage on the mobile device to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data. The mobile device may in turn allocate the appropriate amount of device storage and transmit a request to the remote server for the Wi Fi tile data. The data storage that the device allocates may include various forms of non volatile data storage e.g. hard disk storage and or various forms of volatile data storage e.g. random access memory RAM .

In certain example embodiments the amount of mobile device data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data may be additionally or alternatively determined based at least in part on any portion of the other storage allocation parameter data identified at block . As a non limiting example the device storage allocation determination module s may determine that the amount of mobile device data storage that should be allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data should be adjusted in relation to the mobility data. For example a greater amount of device data storage may be allocated for Wi Fi tile data in scenarios in which the mobility data indicates a higher user speed than for scenarios in which the mobility data indicates a lower user speed.

As another non limiting example the device storage allocation determination module s may determine an amount of mobile device data storage to allocate for Wi Fi tile data based at least in part on route data. For example the amount of mobile device data storage to allocate for Wi Fi tile data may be adjusted to ensure that all Wi Fi tile data downloaded during traversal of a current planned or historical device route can be accommodated on the mobile device. In certain other example embodiments the device storage allocation management server may transmit periodic messages to the mobile device indicating dynamic adjustments to be made to the amount of data storage allocated to Wi Fi tile data based on changes in the AP density along the route. In still other example embodiments device storage allocation determination module s may determine a particular time of day during which the user of the mobile device travels along a particular path. In such example embodiments the device storage allocation management server may transmit a message to the mobile device to increase the data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data during that particular time of day. In yet other example embodiments the mobile device may adjust an initial device data storage allocation determination made by the device storage allocation management server based at least in part on mobility data route data or the like.

While certain example types of storage allocation parameters have been discussed above it should be appreciated that any of a variety of other types of parameters may be assessed to determine device storage allocation for Wi Fi tile data. For example the total available data storage of the device an amount of data storage allocated to other programs or processes the relative priority of various programs or processes requiring memory allocation and so forth may impact the amount of device storage allocated for the storage of Wi Fi tile data.

At block the user device may initiate a scan e.g. a Wi Fi scan for APs within communication range of the mobile device. More specifically the mobile device may send out probe request frames requesting APs within communication range of the mobile device to transmit identifying information. Alternatively or additionally an AP may broadcast a beacon signal containing identifying information that is received by the mobile device.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to determine a density of APs that are within range of the mobile device based on the results of the Wi Fi scanning. In particular the device storage allocation determination module s may be configured to assess the number of APs detected based on the scanning to determine an AP density for a geographic region containing the location of the mobile device. In certain example embodiments the device storage allocation determination module s may determine an AP density for a geographic region that encompasses more APs than the number of APs detected by the Wi Fi scanning.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to identify other storage allocation parameter data. The data identified at block may include for example at least a portion of the route data A at least a portion of the mobility data B and or at least a portion of the AP density data C. For example the device storage allocation determination module s may identify a current route being traversed by a user of the mobile device a planned route e.g. a route mapped out using a navigation application executing on the mobile device historical route data e.g. a daily commute for a user of the mobile device and so forth. In certain example embodiments the device storage allocation determination module s may further identify a respective AP density corresponding to each of one or more geographic regions e.g. Wi Fi tiles in addition to the geographic region covered by the scan initiated at block . For example the device storage allocation determination module s may determine AP densities at various points along a current planned or historical route associated with the mobile device.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to determine based at least in part on the AP density determined at block and or the other storage allocation parameter data identified at block an amount of data storage of the mobile device to allocate to storing AP information e.g. Wi Fi the data . As a non limiting example the higher the AP density determined at block the greater the amount of mobile device data storage the device storage allocation determination module s may determine should be allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data.

At block the device storage allocation determination module s may direct the mobile device to allocate the determined amount of device storage for storing Wi Fi tile data. The data storage that the device allocates may include various forms of non volatile data storage e.g. hard disk storage and or various forms of volatile data storage e.g. random access memory RAM .

In certain example embodiments the amount of mobile device data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data may be determined based on the AP density determined at block . In certain other example embodiments the amount of mobile device data storage to allocate for storing Wi Fi tile data may be additionally or alternatively determined based at least in part on any portion of the other storage allocation parameter data identified at block . As a non limiting example the device storage allocation determination module s may determine that the amount of mobile device data storage that should be allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data should be adjusted in relation to the mobility data. For example a greater amount of device data storage may be allocated for Wi Fi tile data in scenarios in which the mobility data indicates a higher user speed associated with the mobile device than for scenarios in which the mobility data indicates a lower user speed.

As another non limiting example the device storage allocation determination module s may determine an amount of mobile device data storage to allocate for Wi Fi tile data based at least in part on route data. For example the amount of mobile device data storage to allocate for Wi Fi tile data may be adjusted to ensure that all Wi Fi tile data downloaded during traversal of a current planned or historical device route can be accommodated on the mobile device. In certain other example embodiments the device storage allocation determination module s may make periodic dynamic adjustments to the amount of data storage allocated to Wi Fi tile data based on changes in the AP density along a route traversed by the mobile device. In still other example embodiments the device storage allocation determination module s may determine a particular time of day during which the user of the mobile device travels along a particular path. In such example embodiments the device storage allocation determination module s may direct the mobile device to increase the data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data during that particular time of day.

In certain other example embodiments the device storage allocation determination module s may assess Wi Fi tile data deletions and downloads that occur for example during a daily commute and may adjust the data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data for future commutes accordingly. In addition more generally the device storage allocation determination module s may track Wi Fi tile data deletions and downloads over some period of time and may adjust the data storage allocation accordingly.

At block computer executable instructions provided as part of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to determine a respective AP density for one or more geographic regions. The one or more geographic regions may include regions traversed as a mobile device travels along a current planned or historical route.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to identify other storage allocation parameter data. The data identified at block may include for example at least a portion of the route data A at least a portion of the mobility data B and or at least a portion of the AP density data C. For example the device storage allocation determination module s may identify a current route being traversed by a user of the mobile device a planned route e.g. a route mapped out using a navigation application executing on the mobile device historical route data e.g. a daily commute for a user of the mobile device and so forth.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to identify an amount of first data storage of the mobile device that is currently allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data. A current allocation of first data storage may include RAM cache memory or any other suitable form of memory capable of being read or written to at faster speeds than second data storage of the device such as for example hard disk storage.

At block computer executable instructions of the device storage allocation determination module s may be executed to determine whether the current allocation of first data storage should be modified based at least in part on the AP density ies determined at block and or the other storage allocation parameter data identified at block .

In response to a positive determination at block the method may proceed to block where more or less first data storage may be allocated for storing Wi Fi tile data. Any of a variety of scenarios may result in faster read write access data storage being allocated for Wi Fi tile data. As a non limiting example the mobility data B may indicate that a user speed has increased in which case the amount of faster read write access data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data may be increased to accommodate the greater number of Wi Fi tile data downloads that will occur over a given period of time. As another non limiting example the route data A may indicate that the user of the mobile device is travelling as part of a daily commute and the amount of faster read write access data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data may be increased to allow for faster access to Wi Fi tile data as part of for example Wi Fi based positioning determinations.

Similarly any of a variety of scenarios may result in less first data storage being allocated for Wi Fi tile data. As a non limiting example the mobility data B may indicate that the mobile device is stationary for some threshold period of time in which case the number of local lookups of Wi Fi tile data that need to be made may be reduced. Accordingly the amount of first data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data may be lowered because for example the demands for faster data access by other applications executing on the mobile device may take priority over the lower latency for local lookups offered by storage of Wi Fi tile data in the first data storage. It should be appreciated that the above examples of scenarios in which the amount of first data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data may be adjusted are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

Referring again to block in response to a negative determination at block the method may again proceed to block and the method may be performed iteratively to periodically determine whether the amount of first data storage allocated for Wi Fi tile data needs to be adjusted.

One or more operations of the methods or may have been described above as being performed by a user device or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on a user device . It should be appreciated however that any of the operations of either of methods or may be performed by a device storage allocation management server or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on a device storage allocation management server . In addition it should be appreciated that processing performed in response to execution of computer executable instructions provided as part of an application program module or the like may be interchangeably described herein as being performed by the application or the program module itself by a device on which the application program module or the like is executing or by a system that includes such a device. While the operations of the methods or may be described in the context of the illustrative system architecture it should be appreciated that such operations may be implemented in connection with numerous other architectural and device level configurations.

The operations described and depicted in the illustrative methods of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

