---

title: Power dividing and/or power-combining circuits with isolation
abstract: Power-dividing and/or power-combining circuits have inputs, outputs, and at least three electrical pathways, with substantially equal input and output reflection coefficients. An electronic device may be provided in each of the pathways. Additionally, isolation circuits or devices can be inserted between signal lines to provide isolation between inputs, in the case of combining, or outputs, in the case of dividing. In one embodiment, multiple phase shift components are electrically connected to electronic devices in the electrical pathways. These phase shift components are selected so that a vector sum of the reflected signals from the inputs in combining and/or to the outputs in dividing is substantially minimized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09362602&OS=09362602&RS=09362602
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09362602
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140916
---
The present application is a continuation in part CIP application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 922 980 filed on Jun. 20 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 835 688 filed on Jun. 17 2013 both applications herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The present invention relates generally to electronic circuits and more particularly to power dividing and or power combining circuits.

Millimeter wave communication radar electronic warfare systems also known as microwave systems conventionally use amplifiers to increase the power output signal level. An increase in the output power for the microwave system achieves many advantages e.g. improved operating range improved communications and the like.

In order to amplify the microwave transmission signal conventionally the signal is divided by a splitter having one input and two outputs so that one output signal is coupled as an input signal to one amplifier while the other output signal is connected as an input signal to the other amplifier. The outputs from the amplifiers are then connected to a combiner so that the output signal from the combiner is equal to the input signal amplified by the two amplifiers minus any losses in the splitter or combiner.

Furthermore the splitter also known as a divider is identical to a combiner but used in the reverse direction. For example a splitter or divider would have one input and two outputs while the combiner has two inputs and one output so that the divider component is a mirror image of the combiner component. For that reason the term combiner divider is used interchangeably since a divider may be used either as a divider or a combiner depending upon the fashion in which it is connected to the amplifier circuit.

In order to achieve efficient power amplifier designs for microwave communications it is critical that the path length from the outputs of the splitter and to the inputs of the combiner be equal. Otherwise the signals from the amplifiers do not add constructively and power is lost. Likewise it is necessary that the phase shift if any from the outputs of the splitter and to the inputs of the combiner be the same for each amplifier in order for the power output signals from the amplifiers to add or combine constructively.

One inherent problem with power signal level amplification in microwave systems is that the power amplifiers located between the divider and the combiner each exhibits an input reflection coefficient so that a portion of the signal provided by the divider to the power amplifier is reflected back to the input of the power amplifier circuit. This reflected signal effectively reduces the overall power input to the power amplifiers. This in turn reduces the overall efficiency of the power amplifier.

In order to reduce the adverse effects of the reflected power from the power amplifiers there have been previously known balanced microwave power amplifier circuits which eliminated or at least greatly reduced the adverse effect of reflected power from the power amplifiers. These previously known balanced amplifier circuits included a first phase delay of 90 in between the divider output and the first amplifier while the output from the first amplifier was connected as an input signal to the combiner. Conversely the input of a second amplifier was connected directly to a second output from the divider while the output from the second amplifier was electrically connected through a 90 phase shift delay line to a second input of the combiner. In operation and assuming that both amplifiers are identical in operation to each other a reflected signal from the first amplifier exhibits a phase shift of 180 at the output from the divider since the signal ultimately resulting in the reflected signal passes through the 90 delay line twice. Conversely the phase of the reflection from the second amplifier back to the divider exhibits 0 phase shift relative to the one reflected from the first amplifier. Since the magnitudes of the reflected signals from both amplifiers are equal the reflected signals from the two amplifiers cancel each other.

These previously known balanced combiner microwave power amplifier circuits however have been limited to a two amplifier configuration between the divider and the combiner. In many situations however a simple two amplifier circuit produces insufficient output power for the microwave system.

In some circumstances it may be possible to cascade two or more balanced power amplifier circuits together to increase the overall power output of the microwave system. However the addition of extra divider combiner pairs each having a pair of power amplifiers electrically connected there between increases the overall size and bulk of the microwave power system. In many situations such as monolithic microwave millimeter wave integrated circuits MMICs the cascading of multiple balanced pairs of amplifiers is simply impractical due to the limited space available on the MMIC substrate.

The present invention provides power dividing and or power combining circuits that overcome all of the above mentioned disadvantages of the previously known power amplifier circuits or other similar circuits.

In one embodiment a power dividing and or power combining circuit may include one or more inputs one or more outputs at least three electrical pathways with substantially equal signal reflection between the one or more inputs and the one or more outputs. Additionally isolation circuits or devices can be inserted between pairs of signal lines to provide isolation between various inputs or outputs.

Depending on the particular circuit application the one or more isolation circuits or devices may comprise a resistor inductor capacitor transistor transmission line or any combination thereof or electromagnetic absorbing material. The one or more isolation circuits or devices may be selected to be on the order of magnitude of the characteristic impedance of a system connected to the circuit. Where resistors are used they may range from about 0 to 1 000 ohms. At least one isolation circuit or device may be positioned between two pathways with one pathway going to one input or output and the other pathways going to another input or output. The two pathways can be parallel to one another for example. The one or more isolation circuits or devices may be positioned at approximately 180 N degrees integrals of electric length of a pathway.

In some embodiments at least one electronic device is provided in each of the electrical pathways. A plurality of phase shift components are further provided with at least one phase shift component electrically connected in series with the electronic devices in each of the electrical pathways. The phase shift components are selected so that a vector sum of the reflected signals from the electronic devices to the one or more inputs and or the one or more outputs is substantially minimized.

Circuits according this embodiment may be configured as i a divider having one input and a plurality of outputs and a splitter generating inputs to the pathways from the one input with outputs from the pathways providing the plurality of outputs ii a combiner having a plurality of inputs and one output and an adder generating the one output from outputs from the pathways with inputs to the pathways providing the plurality of inputs or iii a divider combiner having one input and one output a splitter generating inputs to the pathways from the one input and an adder generating the one output from outputs from the pathways. When configured as iii a power divider combiner the total signal phase shift between the multiple paths as measured between the one input and the one output is substantially equal to zero.

Depending on the particular circuit application the electronic devices may include amplifiers switches attenuators mixers filters antenna elements e.g. phased array elements etc. For example in a three amplifier system embodiment the input of one amplifier is connected directly to the output from the divider while a phase shift component equal to 120 is electrically connected in series from the output of the first amplifier and to a first input of the combiner. For the second amplifier a 60 phase shift component is electrically connected in between both the input to the second amplifier and the output from the divider as well as between the output from the second amplifier and a second input to the combiner. Lastly a phase shift component of 120 is electrically connected between the third output from the divider and the input of the third amplifier while the output from the third amplifier is connected with no additional phase delay as an input signal to the third input of the combiner.

In the operation of the three amplifier system and assuming ideal operation of the amplifiers and also that the amplifiers are identical in operation to each other a portion of the input signal is reflected by the first amplifier back to the input which is in phase with the incoming signal. Conversely the reflected signal from the second amplifier at the input is equal in magnitude but offset 120 from the reflected signal from the first amplifier. Similarly the third amplifier reflects a signal equal in amplitude to the reflected signals of both the first and second amplifiers but with a phase shift of 240 .

Since the reflected signals from the amplifiers at the input to the power amplifier circuit are equal in amplitude but angularly offset from each other by 120 these three reflected vector signals when combined cancel and thus eliminate or at least minimize signal loss at the input to the power amplifier circuit.

For circuits containing four or more electronic devices the actual selection of the delay component will differ in order to produce a reflected signal at the input which vectorally cancels thus resulting in zero or at least low signal loss.

In another embodiment a power dividing and or power combining circuit may include one or more inputs one or more outputs at least three electrical pathways at least three electronic devices with substantially equal signal reflection between the one or more inputs and the one or more outputs and one or more isolation circuits or devices positioned between at least one input or at least one output and at least one pathway. At least one electronic device is provided in each of the electrical pathways. A serial bus extends from the one or more input and the one or more outputs the serial bus having serially connected impedance providing components positioned between the electrical pathways the impedance providing components increasing in impedance from one end and to the other end of the serial bus in an amount sufficient to produce a substantially equal amount of power to each of at least three electronic devices.

Circuits according this embodiment may be configured as i a divider having one input and a plurality of outputs wherein the serial bus generates inputs to the pathways from the one input with outputs from the pathways providing the plurality of outputs ii a combiner having a plurality of inputs and one output wherein the serial bus generates the one output from outputs of the pathways with inputs to the pathways providing the plurality of the inputs or iii a divider combiner having one input and one output wherein a first of the serial bus generates inputs to the multiple pathways from the one input and a second of the serial bus generates the one output from outputs from the multiple paths. When configured as iii the combiner divider the total signal phase shift between the multiple paths as measured at the one input and the one output is substantially equal to zero.

In general the power dividing and or power combining circuits described herein have inputs outputs at least three electrical pathways. At least one electronic device may be provided in each of the electrical pathways. Depending on the configuration of the inputs outputs the pathways and the electronic devices may be connected in parallel between the inputs and outputs. The electronic devices have substantially equal signal reflection at the inputs and or the outputs. For example the electronic devices may have input reflection coefficients and substantially equal output reflection coefficients. While the embodiments illustrated in the figures generally show a power amplifier as an electronic device it should be appreciated that the circuits may include other electronic devices as well. For instance the electronic devices may include amplifiers switches attenuators mixers filters antenna elements e.g. phased array elements etc. A power dividing and or power combining circuit may include a power divider or power combiner with or without electronic devices present.

With reference first to a millimeter wave e.g. 32 gigahertz power amplifier circuit is illustrated. It should be appreciated that the amplifier circuit may be used for other frequency bands and applications. The circuit may be configured for operation in the frequency range 0.1 1 000 GHz in some instances. Here the circuit is configured as both a power divider and a power combiner. More particularly the power amplifier circuit includes both a power input as well as a power output with multiple electrical pathways e.g. three as illustrated provided between the power input and the power output including respective electronic devices. The entire power amplifier circuit may be implemented as an MMIC in some embodiments.

The power dividing portion of the circuit includes the power input connected to a signal splitter which splits an input signal to input into three inputs and to the multiple pathways including the electronic devices such as amplifiers and . Ideally the splitter evenly divides the input signal to the power input so that the power signal levels at each of inputs and to the multiple pathways are not only equal in magnitude but also equal in phase to each other. If inputs and are separately desired or provided for in the circuit a splitter element dividing an input signal into multiple signals may not be needed. Ideally the signal splitter exhibits a constant phase shift of the signals between power input and the inputs and to the multiple pathways and likewise introduces negligible signal loss for the circuit .

Similarly the power combining portion of the circuit has a signal adder which receives signals from three outputs and of the multiple pathways and combines them into single signal for output at the power output . If separate outputs are desired or provided for in the circuit an adder element combining the outputs and into one output signal may not be needed.

Ideally the signal adder exhibits a constant phase shift of the signals between outputs and of the multiple pathways and the power output and likewise introduces negligible signal loss for the circuit . Furthermore the adder may be identical to the splitter but electrically connected in the reverse direction. In some embodiments splitter and adder may be conventional elements.

Still referring to a first amplifier has its input connected to the first output from the splitter . The output from the first amplifier is then connected through two 60 phase shift components which are connected in series from the output from the amplifier and to the first input of the adder . Alternatively a single phase shift component of 120 may be substituted for the two series phase shift components .

A second amplifier is connected in series with the second output from the divider through a 60 phase shift component . The output from the second amplifier is connected through a 60 phase shift component to the second input of the adder .

Lastly a third amplifier has its input connected through two 60 phase shift components to the third output from the splitter . The output from the third amplifier is connected to the third input of the adder .

Ideally the three amplifiers and are identical or substantially identical to each other so that all three amplifiers and exhibit substantially identical signal reflection due to impedance mismatch at the input of each amplifier and . Additionally the phase shift components and may take any construction but preferably are in the form of a signal delay line.

With reference now to in operation the signal on the input to the circuit is divided into three inputs and of equal power and same phase to the multiple pathways. Due to the impedance mismatch at the first amplifier a portion of the signal is reflected by the first amplifier back to the input . This reflected signal is illustrated by vector having a magnitude or length and a phase shift of 0 since it is taken as the reference signal.

The output from the first amplifier is connected through the two 60 phase shift components to the adder input . Consequently the total phase shift from the input and to the output equals 120 .

Similarly one third of the power at the input flows through the phase delay component to the input of the second amplifier . A portion of that power is reflected due to impedance mismatch back through the phase shift component and to the input . This reflected power is illustrated in as vector . The vector has the same magnitude or length as the first vector assuming zero signal loss in the phase shift component but is offset in phase by 120 due to the two signal passages through the 60 phase shift component .

The output from the second amplifier is connected through a single 60 phase shift component to the second input of the combiner . Consequently the overall phase shift from the input and to the output is equal to 120 i.e. the same for the first amplifier .

Lastly the signal from the third output of the splitter passes through the two 60 phase delay components and to the input of the third amplifier . A portion of that signal is then reflected due to impedance mismatch back through the two phase shift components to the input so that the total phase shift for the reflected signal from the third amplifier equals 240 .

The reflected image from the third amplifier is illustrated in as vector . The vector has a magnitude of length the same or at least substantially the same as the vectors and but has a phase offset of 240 from the first vector . These three vectors and however when combined effectively cancel each other both in magnitude as well as in phase. This in turn results in essentially zero or extremely low loss for signal entering the input to the three amplifiers in amplifier circuit .

In addition the overall phase delay from the input through the amplifier and to the output equals 120 i.e. the same as the other amplifiers and . As such all three signals at the output are in phase with each other at the output for maximum signal strength. Furthermore even in the event that the amplifiers and introduce a phase delay of the phase shift caused by each amplifier and will be identical so that the signals at the output from the adder remain in phase with each other. By the same token an introduction of a phase shift by the amplifiers and would merely rotate the vector diagram illustrated in by an angular amount equal to but would still result in cancellation of the vectors and .

The foregoing example of three amplifiers was by way of example only. Rather any arbitrary numbers of at least three amplifiers odd or even may be used provided that the phase shift components are properly selected for example between the splitter and the adder to produce reflected power signals from the amplifiers which cancel each other.

For example with reference now to a power amplifier circuit having four amplifiers namely a first amplifier second amplifier third amplifier and fourth amplifier is shown interconnected between an input and output of the power amplifier circuit .

A 135 phase delay circuit is connected between the input to the first amplifier and the signal splitter while the output from the first amplifier is connected to the signal added . The opposite is true for the fourth amplifier i.e. the input of the fourth amplifier is connected to the splitter while its output is connected through a 135 phase shift component to the adder .

A 90 phase shift component is connected between the splitter and the input of the second amplifier while the output from the second amplifier is connected through a 45 phase shift component to the combiner . Lastly a 45 phase shift component is connected between the splitter and input to the third amplifier while the output from the third amplifier is connected through a 90 phase shift component to the adder .

Consequently and with reference to a portion of the signal from the input is reflected by the first amplifier back to the input. That reflected signal passes through the 135 phase shift component thus producing a total phase shift of 270 and a magnitude illustrated by the length of the vector in . Similarly a portion of the signal from the input to the second amplifier passes through the 90 phase shift component twice thus resulting in a 180 phase shift illustrated at vector in .

Similarly a portion of the signal from the input is reflected by the third amplifier twice through the 45 phase shift component thus resulting in a 90 phase shift illustrated by vector in . The signal reflected back to the input by the fourth amplifier has no phase shift and thus results in a vector in having a zero phase shift.

Ideally the amplifiers and or other electronic devices are all identical to each other so that the magnitude of the reflected signal back to the input is identical for each amplifier and represented by the length of each vector . The vectors when added or combined together completely cancel out thus resulting in substantially zero power loss. Furthermore the phase shift components and which are connected between the amplifiers and and the combiner ensure that the total phase shift between the input and output for the power amplifier circuit remains the same or approximately 135 plus any phase shift resulting from the amplifier itself.

In order to adjust the phase shift amount of the phase shift components for N electronic devices e.g. amplifiers the amount of phase shift for each sequential amplifier equals 1 180 N 2 180 N 3 180 N . . . N 1 180 N . Or put another way where the circuit includes N electronic devices and at least N 1 signal delay line components connected in series with the N electronic devices power reflected from each electronic device to the input should exhibits a phase shift of N radians 180 N degrees or a multiples thereof with respect to other electronic devices. To achieve cancellation of the reflection vectors they need to be evenly distributed around a theoretical circle of 360 or 2 radians in vector space as alluded to in and . Hence the proposed divider combiner is called wave or Pi wave divider and or combiner.

With reference now to a circuit is configured as a power divider having one input and a plurality of outputs which provide a plurality of inputs to multiple electrical pathways depending from the serial bus. Here the serial bus is illustrated for equally dividing a signal at its input into four signals of equal power at its four outputs and . The phase shift of the signal varies at each of the output ports . As will be described subsequently in greater detail the circuit when configured as a power dividing circuit a power combining circuit or both automatically corrects these phase shifts.

More specifically an input signal at the input first passes through a phase shift component having a fixed phase shift e.g. 90 and a fixed characteristic impedance e.g. 25 ohms to a common node . Power from the common node then provides power to all four outputs and . The outputs and may subsequently provide inputs to electrical pathways having electronic devices such as amplifiers as further illustrated in .

In particular the node is electrically connected to the first output by an impedance component having a zero phase shift and a fixed impedance of 50 ohms. The node is then connected to a node by a phase shift component having a fixed phase shift of 45 and an impedance of 16.6 ohms. Since the characteristic impedance of the phase shift component is one third of the characteristic impedance of the phase shift component one quarter of the power from the node flows to the first outlet while three quarters of the power from the node flows to the node .

The node is connected by an impedance component having impedance of 50 ohms and a zero phase shift to the second output . The node is also connected to a node by a phase shift component having a phase shift of 45 and an impedance of 25 ohms. Since the impedance of the phase shift component is one half the impedance of the impedance component one third of the power from the node passes to the output while two thirds of the power passes through the phase shift component to the node .

The node is connected to the third outlet through an impedance component having an impedance of 50 ohms and a zero phase shift. The node is also connected to the first outlet by a phase shift component having a phase shift of 45 and an impedance of 50 ohms. Since the phase shift component has the same impedance as the impedance component the power at node is evenly divided between the third outlet and fourth outlet .

Consequently it can be seen that the serial bus evenly distributes power from its input to its four outputs and . However as described below the signals at the divider outputs are phase shifted relative to each other. With reference now to a circuit is illustrated which is configured as a divider combiner. Here the circuit of is shown as a signal divider for the power dividing portion of the circuit having an input and also as a signal combiner for the power combining portion of the circuit having an output . The circuit illustrated in thus is configured as a divider combiner having one input and one output . A first serial bus generates inputs to the multiple pathways from the one input and a second serial bus generates the one output from outputs from the multiple paths. In this configuration the total signal phase shift between the multiple paths as measured at the one input and the one output is substantially equal to zero.

The 1 to 4 wave divider has a broadband Klopfenstein taper . A Klopfenstein taper is a device in which the characteristic impedance varies along its length and provides minimal reflection for the input port. Other tapered impedance matching devices might alternatively be used such as triangular exponential etc.

Each of the outputs and may include a corresponding meander line and . The meander line is a transmission line which may be added to each output to further adjust the phase of each output. The phase shift of the signal varies at each of the outputs. The circuit is designed to correct for these phase shifts. Here the meander line and the transmission line to each of the corresponding outputs affect the phase delays to a given output. In general phase delay of each of these elements relates to its length with the delay increasing as the length increases. Thus the meander line lengths and the transmission line lengths L1 L2 and L3 are chosen such that the total delay from point to is 180 4 degrees or 4 radians more than the reference where the reference is taken as the delay from to the delay from point to is 2 180 4 degrees or 2 4 radians more than the reference the delay from point to is 3 180 4 degrees or 3 4 radians more than the reference.

The circuit is further designed so as to adjust the impedance at different portions of the transmission line pathway to ensure that power is equally split between the outputs. The default impedance level of a typical system connected to the input may be assumed to have an impedance of about 50 ohms. Indeed many microwave systems are assumed to have 50 ohms impedance for waveguide structure it would be several hundred ohms dependent on the waveguide size. It should be appreciated that this value is not limiting and is used for exemplary purposes here.

At point one fourth of the power is split from the transmission line to output with three fourths of the power continuing through towards outputs and . Thus the characteristic impedance should be 50 4 ohms at point . The characteristic impedance from to is 50 3 ohms and from to is 50 ohms.

Similarly the characteristic impedance from to is 50 2 ohms and from to is 50 ohms. This ensures that a third of the power will be split to output with two thirds of remaining signal power continuing to outputs . And the characteristic impedance at point is 50 2 ohms to ensure the remaining power in the transmission line is equally split between outputs and . To these ends the width of the transmission line is narrowed in discrete steps beginning at points and . As it narrows the characteristic impedance of the transmission line increases. The Klopfenstein taper is configured to match the impedance from 50 4 to 50 ohms the default impedance level of the system.

While circuit is configured for an even number of output four here it will be appreciated that an odd number of outputs can similarly be provided. Implementations with even division e.g. N 2 4 6 . . . and with odd division e.g. N 3 5 7 . . . show the versatility of this approach. The ability to provide arbitrary odd and even especially odd N divisions for equal output signals is not easily available in many other conventional divider approaches. For example a Wilkinson divider can provide 1 to 2 division. However a 1 to 3 Wilkinson divider results in non planar resistors hence it is difficult to implement using standard planar circuit techniques. Additionally a Lange divider can provide 1 to 2 divisions. However they cannot provide 1 to 3 divisions.

In other embodiments isolation circuits or devices can be inserted between pairs of signal lines to provide isolation between various inputs or outputs. The additional isolation provided can advantageously benefit the power dividing and power combining circuits as further explained.

Referring to a 1 to 3 wave divider circuit an input and three outputs and . Each output is connected to an extension transmission line which connects it to the divider. It will be appreciated that circuit can be designed for additional odd or even number of outputs.

It is highly desirable for power dividers to have isolation between various outputs. Isolation between the outputs is defined as the ratio of power that exits one output port call it x when power is inserted in another output port call it y while having all other ports other than x and y terminated in Z the characteristic impedance. Referring to the isolation between ports and is defined as S 804 806 where S x y is defined as the scattering parameter between ports x and y. The scattering parameter S 804 806 for example is measured by terminating all ports in with Z and then exciting port with an incident wave and measuring the output power exiting port . In most cases it is desirable to have all isolation quantities i.e. S 804 806 S 804 808 and S 806 808 as small as possible such that 10 log S 804 806 10 log S 804 808 and 10 log S 806 808 is as large as possible so that maximum isolation can be achieved . When a divider exhibits high isolation between the outputs the devices e.g. semiconductor devices amplifiers or phased array elements connected to the divider that are fed by the divider have very little interaction or cross talk . Hence each device or amplifier sees a good Z fixed impedance even if the other devices or amplifiers have poor Z input output impedances. This is important because many active devices e.g. amplifiers tend to oscillate or produce poor performance when the input output impedance deviates from Z. Having a divider with isolation ensures that devices are isolated from one another and cannot influence each other. It will be appreciated that a divider with isolation can also be used as a high isolation combiner with inputs and outputs being reversed. The power divider combiner can be used in the frequency range of 0.1 1 000 GHz for instance.

At point the circuit splits into three separate parallel pathways to the outputs and respectively. The phase shift of the signal varies at each of the outputs because of differing distances from point . Thus the circuit includes multiple phase shifting elements and to correct for these phase shifts. To these ends there is provided a single phase shifting element between point and the output . Additionally there are phase shifting elements positioned between point and the output and phase shifting elements between point and output .

The phase shifting elements and are typically transmission lines with characteristic impedance of about 50 ohms the default impedance level of the system.

The phase shifting elements and have typical phase delays equal to 180 N degrees where N is the division ratio assuming they are of equal length. In this case for a 1 to 3 divider N 3. Thus phase shifting elements with 180 3 degrees or 3 radians phase shift are chosen so that the vector reflection coefficients from outputs and which are intended to be substantially equal in magnitude and phase cancel each other at point . The phase delay is related to the signal distance. As such the pathway from point to output requires only 180 3 degrees or 3 radians phase delay provided by phase shifting element . The pathway from point to output requires require a phase delay of 2 180 3 degrees or 2 3 radians provided by phase shifting elements together. And the pathway from point to output requires a phase delay of 3 180 3 degrees or 3 3 radians provided by phase shifting elements together.

The phase shifting elements and may also be implemented using a combination of distributed elements such as transmission lines and lumped components such as resistors inductors capacitors and transistors in discrete form or in integrated circuit form such as MA COM 4 bit digital phase shifter part number MAPS 010146 for instance. ICs of this type may include a plurality of switchable delay lines in series such that they can be switched in order to provide a desired phase delay of up to 360 degree in discrete steps such as 22.5 degrees per step for example.

The circuit is further designed to ensure power is equally split between the outputs and . The input may be assumed to have an impedance of about 50 ohms the default impedance level of the system. Since there is a separate pathway from point to each of the three outputs the impedance level at point to is about 50 3 ohms to ensure that one third of the power is provided to each of these outputs. A broadband matching network matches the impedance from 50 3 to 50 ohms the default impedance level of the system for waveguide structures the default impedance would be several hundred ohms.

There are many options for implementing matching network including lumped matching networks multi section transmission lines and tapered transmission lines such a Klopfenstein taper which gives broadband matching between two real impedances .

The transmission lines along with circuits or devices and form a 1 to 3 isolation network that splits an input signal at into three outputs that are isolated. The design of lines and circuits or devices and aims to optimize and in some cases maximize the isolation between the output signals. Additionally the circuit is chosen to maximize the isolation between the outputs and .

The delay lines have phase delays equal to N where N is the division ratio. Again in this case for a 1 to 3 divider N 3. A phase delay of 180 3 degrees or 3 radians is chosen for this element so that the vector reflection coefficients from and which are intended to be substantially equal in magnitude and phase cancel each other at point . The lengths of delay lines and can be similarly selected to ensure the reflection coefficients to the remaining outputs and are further cancelled each other out at point . L1 L2 and L3 represent the physical lengths corresponding to delay lines and respectively.

Each output is also connected to an extension transmission line which connects it to the divider. The extension transmission line for each output may also have a different length. But the phase delays of the transmission line should be selected to ensure that reflections from and cancel at point .

Turning now to impedance it may be assumed that the default impedance level of the system of about 50 ohms. Thus the impedance level at point is about 50 3 ohms to split power between the three outputs. A broadband Klopfenstein taper matching network is provided which is configured to match the impedance from 50 3 to 50 ohms the default impedance level of the system.

Isolation circuits or devices and are resistors here chosen to increase the isolation among the outputs and . Exemplary values for resistors are 50 300 ohm for 0 100 ohm for and 30 300 for . The resistor values that provide optimum or in some cases maximum isolation among the outputs can be obtained using optimization techniques available in standard simulation tools e.g. Microwave Office from Associate Wave Research or Advanced Design System from Keysight Technologies . The optimization typically leads to resistor values that have an order of magnitude within 0.1 to 10 similar to Zthe characteristic impedance of the system typically about 50 ohms. In some embodiments the isolation circuits or devices and may be more sophisticated networks such as composed of resistors inductors capacitors transistors and transmission lines than merely providing simple resistors. If one implements the isolation circuits or devices in a waveguide system for example instead of using resistors to provide signal isolation one could use EM absorbing material which has similar function except in waveguide mode the term EM propagation is used. More sophisticated isolation circuits improve isolation at the cost of higher complexity and larger size. One skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate that in designing a power dividing or power combining for a particular application there are certain tradeoffs in terms of complexity and performance.

In general the circuit A and circuit are similar except for the phase shifts and impedance. For instance the phase shifts for circuits A are made to be 180 4 degrees instead of 180 3 degrees. And assuming that the default impedance level of the system of about 50 ohms the impedance level at point is about 50 4 ohms to split power between the four outputs instead of 50 3 ohms for splitting power between three outputs. A broadband Klopfenstein taper matching network is provided which is configured to match the impedance from 50 4 to 50 ohms the default impedance level of the system.

For the structure in two cases are shown. In one case the isolation resistors are optimized and in the other case they are set of infinity i.e. there are no resistors . The plot in shows both cases.

For the former optimized case in the resistor values chosen were 300 130 60 0 0 and 25 ohm for isolation resistors in and respectively. Generally it is desirable to maximize isolation between all ports i.e. between and . A wide range of values for the resistors can be used in with each choice producing varying degrees of isolation performance. As can be seen there is up to 20 dB of improvement in isolation between divider A with optimum isolation resistors and divider . In the latter case it may still be desirable to reduce or eliminate the use of isolation resistors e.g. for cost considerations . Even in this case there is about 8 dB of improvement in the isolation between A with no resistors and divider .

It should be appreciated though that the power dividing and power combining portions of the circuit may similarly function as stand alone circuits in other embodiments. Referring back to for instance a power dividing circuit may have one input and a plurality of outputs where the serial bus generates inputs to the pathways from the one input with outputs from the pathways providing the plurality of outputs. And a power combing circuit may have a plurality of inputs and one output where the serial bus generates the one output from outputs of the pathways with inputs to the pathways providing the plurality of the inputs.

When the serial bus is employed as a combiner the inputs and illustrated in now act as signal outputs and respectively. It is noted that the combiner may be thought of as being oriented upside down with respect to the divider in so as to be function in a reversed manner. Four power amplifiers are located along the four electrical pathways between the divider and combiner so that one power amplifier is electrically connected between the divider output and the combiner input while one amplifier is connected between the divider output and the combiner input . Similarly one amplifier is electrically connected between the divider output and the combiner input while one amplifier is electrically connected between the divider output and the combiner input . Ideally all four amplifiers are identical in operation to each other.

With reference now to both the phase shift of a reflection from the amplifier at the node from the divider output will equal a zero phase shift and thus result in the vector illustrated in . Each impedance providing component may be configured to create a phase shift equal to 180 N or a multiple thereof where N equals the number of electronic devices.

The power that is reflected by the amplifier through the second divider output passes twice through the phase shift component thus resulting in an overall phase shift of 90 corresponding to vector in . Similarly the reflected power from the amplifier from the third divider output passes through the phase shift components and twice thus resulting in an overall phase shift of 180 as shown by vector . Similarly a reflected signal from the power amplifier through the output passes twice through the phase shift components and thus resulting in an overall phase shift of 270 which corresponds to vector in . As before the vectors all cancel each other thus minimizing or eliminating signal reflection from all amplifier at the input with minimal signal power loss input into the amplifiers .

In addition to an equal distribution of power by the divider the total phase shift from node in the divider to the corresponding node in the combiner is identical for each amplifier path and is equal to 135 plus any phase shift caused by the amplifiers . For example the signal passing from node in the divider through the first output must pass through all three phase shift components and when employed as a combiner in the combiner thus resulting in a total phase shift of 135 .

Phase shift components and components with different impedances have been described for controlling the power distribution and phase shift of the various circuits described herein. In some instances for example the phase shift components and or impedance providing components may be transmissions lines having a predetermined length having a characteristic impedance and a predetermined length. Examples of transmission lines may include microstrip lines striplines co planar waveguides or waveguides. The magnitude and or phase of the transmission lines may be judiciously selected to provide desired electrical characteristics. For instance the electronic length of the transmission lines may dictate the phase shift or delay of the signal.

For a microstrip line or stripline configuration the line may have a conductor on top of a ground plane with a dielectric there between. The longer in length of the line the greater delay may be achieved. For a given thickness of the dielectric the characteristic impedance can be changed by changing the width of the top conductor from a relative base line e.g. which may be 50 ohm characteristic impedance . If the conductor is made narrower the characteristic impedance is increased. Whereas if the conductor is made wider the characteristic impedance is decreased. And the magnitude of the signal may be dictated by changing the impedance of the transmission line to be different from the input impedance. For a waveguide configuration the waveguide may be a conventional waveguide e.g. a standard waveguide size or a modified custom form to achieve different wave impedance thereof. And for a co planar waveguide CPW configuration the structure may a conventional CPW and or modified custom form thereof which includes spacing of different conductors supporting wave propagation located on the same plane on top of a dielectric substrate. The median strip is the signal line and the two surrounding strips serve as grounds. For a waveguide or CPW changing the dimensions thereof generally changes the characteristic impedance and phase shift as one skilled in the art appreciates. However it should be appreciated that other phase shifting and impedance providing means may be used without deviating from the spirit or scope of the invention.

The power dividing combining techniques described can be implemented using a variety of fabrication techniques including printed circuit boards PCB and integrated circuit IC techniques.

The power dividing and or power combining circuit embodiments described herein may be applicable for RF to submillimeter wave signals when used in power amplifier configuration demonstrated minimum reflected signal at the input or output. The technique combines and cancels reflections of multiple any number amplifiers. The technique also eliminates the need for expensive bulky and RF lossy isolators required at the input output of conventional power amplifiers thus reducing system costs.

From the foregoing it can be seen that the present invention provides a novel power amplifier circuit as well as an improved divider combiner for microwave millimeter wave circuitry or microwave systems. Having described our invention however many modifications thereto will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

