---

title: Method and apparatus for managing digital files
abstract: A computer-implemented method of associating digital tags with digital files comprises storing a plurality of digital files having embedded therein content data and metadata including tags; receiving, via a user interface device of a client device, a first tag label containing alphanumeric text created and inputted by a user of the client device; modifying, using a controller device, a selected first one of the tags of the metadata in a first of the digital files to include the first tag label; receiving, via the user interface device or another user interface device, an instruction to search for all of the digital files having at least the first tag label; responsive to receiving the instruction, automatically searching for all of the digital files having at least the first tag label; and displaying, on a video display device associated with the client device, a first indication of the first tag label.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552376&OS=09552376&RS=09552376
owner: MemoryWeb, LLC
number: 09552376
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140228
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 157 214 filed Jun. 9 2011 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to the management of digital files and more particularly to a computer implemented system and method for managing and using digital files such as digital photographs.

Prior to the invention of digital photography people tended to share photos by displaying printed copies in frames and albums or would store them in a container in hope of preserving these assets for future use or future generations. Important photos would often be inscribed on the back with significant details people location event etc. to preserve the memory of that particular occasion. Many people would share their memories by assembling an album that could be viewed with others. Occasionally extra copies of special photos were printed for friends relatives etc. At one time film slide shows were also a popular medium for sharing photo memories.

With the evolution of digital files there has been explosive growth in the number of individuals taking digital photos converting old photos to digital copies making movies and gathering digital documents and in the sheer number of files people are capturing digitally. Today virtually every personal computing device contains some kind of photo movie or other type of digital file creator player viewer storer etc.

At the same time there is little to no cost for people to store large amounts of photos in various containers of the modern age. Facebook Flickr Shutterfly and countless other social media and specialty digital files sites allow users to post and share images to a community with a frequency and ease that continues to feed the fire of the digital revolution. However they don t allow much organization of digital tags dynamic viewing of digital files and the ability to export the digital files with new digital tags. Questionable and ever changing privacy terms for user account information including digital files have also left the marketplace leery of posting their full digital archive and associated context to these sites.

What is needed to complement the widespread availability of digital files is a medium that allows people to organize view preserve and share these files with all the memory details captured connected and vivified via an interactive interface. Such a solution would allow digital files including documents photos videos and audio to tell a full story now and for generations to come.

In accordance with one embodiment a computer implemented method of associating digital tags with digital files comprises 1 storing on one or more non transitory computer readable storage media a plurality of digital files each of the digital files having embedded therein content data and metadata including tags 2 receiving via a user interface device of a client device a first tag label containing alphanumeric text created and inputted by a user of the client device 3 modifying using a controller device a selected first one of the tags of the metadata in a first of the digital files to include the first tag label 4 receiving via the user interface device or another user interface device an instruction to search for all of the digital files having at least the first tag label 5 responsive to receiving the instruction automatically searching for all of the digital files having at least the first tag label and 6 displaying on a video display device associated with the client device a first indication of the first tag label.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method of associating digital tags with digital files comprises storing on one or more non transitory computer readable storage media a plurality of digital files each of the digital files having a content data portion and a metadata portion including tags displaying on a video display device associated with a client device a first graphical representation of a first tag label of a first of the tags and associated with a first of the digital files receiving via a user interface device of the client device a selection by a user of the client device of the first graphical representation of the first tag label as a search filter criterion or a search string entered via the user interface device corresponding to the first tag label responsive to the receiving automatically searching through the digital files using at least the first tag label as a search filter for the digital files satisfying at least the search filter criterion and displaying on the video display device an indication of the first tag label and a representation of the number of the digital files satisfying at least the search filter criterion.

In accordance with a further embodiment a web based digital file storage system comprises a digital file repository for storing and retrieving digital files a digital tagging system permitting the user to assign a plurality of digital tags to each of the digital files wherein the digital tagging system comprises at least one type of data selected from the group consisting of a person s name a location a recipe a date a family relationship a person s profile an event name a rating and a document type a search filter wherein the search filter allows the digital files to be searched according to a plurality of types of data and a user interface that presents the digital files on a user s screen based on the digital tags wherein the user interface further comprises a digital tag image the digital tag image having at least one type of data represented thereon with text.

As described in detail below the various embodiments provide much needed platforms that save a user significant time provide significant information with minimal screen space and provide an appealing and customizable interface that will enhance the user experience.

Although the invention will be described in connection with certain preferred embodiments it will be understood that the invention is not limited to those particular embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalent arrangements as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The present disclosure relates to one or more of the following features elements or combinations thereof. A web based digital file storage system is disclosed. The storage system may include a digital file repository for storing and retrieving digital files such as photos a digital tagging system configured to assign digital tags to the digital files a sorting system and a user interface.

The digital tagging system may include various types of data such as a person s name a location a recipe a date a family relationship to the user an event name a rating sharing rights file type and a document name. The sorting system can allow the digital files to be searched and sorted according to a plurality of types of data and can be used for creating and organizing special views. The user interface may be user configurable and can present the digital files on a user s screen based on these user inputs.

The digital file repository may be accessible over the Internet. The sorting system may provide a user with the ability to search based on a plurality of digital tags. The disclosed system may also provide a way to track relationships between users so that a family tree can be displayed.

Recipes may also be linked to a person s name with for example a video and digital copy of original hand written recipe to create a recipe view.

Moreover the digital files and data can be exported as a single file with the digital tagging embedded within the exported file.

In another embodiment a method of storing digital photographs is disclosed. The method may include the steps of storing a digital photograph in a file repository associating a plurality of digital tags having different tag types with the digital photograph providing a search function that permits searching by a plurality of digital tag types and provides a search result and providing a user configurable output to display the search result. The digital tag types may include for example a person s name a location a recipe a date a relationship an event name a rating file type and a document type. The method may include a further step of providing access to the file repository via the Internet. The method may also allow for tracking relationships between users so that a family tree can be displayed.

Additional features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the invention as presently perceived.

The presently disclosed method and application herein alternatively referred to as a system provides users with an Internet based interactive platform to gather organize view share and archive digital files using a proprietary organization system and export tagging process. As used herein the word tag refers to any type of digital data that can be assigned to a file to describe some aspect of that file through a tagging process. For images the tagging is preferably in EXIF format. For videos documents and other file formats any appropriate format may be used. The disclosed system allows users to create view and share digital files which could represent for example the memories a user has collected from the past and present and could incorporate additional memories for generations to come. As outlined herein various embodiments are disclosed that can accomplish these and other goals.

One disclosed embodiment includes an import feature. Users can import media files from users favorite sources e.g. computers mobile phones social networks etc. . If any meta tag information is embedded within the media e.g. date taken and GPS coordinates the system could automatically read and utilize it for the user. Digital files media meta tags and other data discussed herein may be saved to one or more file repositories also referred to as a database herein .

In another aspect of the disclosed system organizational functionality is provided. Similar to the concept of writing certain information on the back of a photo the system s digital tagging system and organizing feature allows a user to arrange large amounts of digital files with tags that can characterize and document the digital file s . Digital files can be individually or group organized at the same time for many tags including but not limited to a person s name family relationships of the subjects to the user and between each other e.g. mother father location date event album comments document type e.g. birth certificate poetry recipe ranking or rating and sharing rights. Tags can be assigned to a single file at a time or to a plurality of files at once. For example if a user wishes to assign the tag grandma to 100 photos at once the system provides a way for a user to select all 100 photos and enter the tag only once. An example of the manner in which digital photos can be organized is presented is seen in .

Yet another feature is the multiple views from which a user can display his or her digital media files and their tagged attributes. Using a user interface e.g. a keyboard mouse or touch screen users can select individual files groups of files meeting specific criteria or all files in their account from which to create views. These views may alternately take the form of a chart. These views will be auto populated based upon either tag information already associated with the digital file upon import or the tags assigned to the digital files by the user within the aforementioned organization functionality. Each digital file can be enlarged from any view or chart by clicking an information i button to show an enlarged version of the digital media file with all the tags that are assigned to that digital file as illustrated in . In another embodiment the user interface may be user configurable as discussed further herein.

The following views are shown with particularity. In the gallery view allows the user to see all the digital media that are associated within a group such as an event or custom album. The gallery view for either events or albums is illustrated in .

As shown in an individual album or event view allows one to see the files associated with a specific group. For example one can view the digital files that relate to a group of files called Trip to Italy 2011. The individual album or event view is illustrated in .

A location view as shown in identifies within an interactive map Google map shown as an example where digital files were taken or originated. The location view can also provide additional outputs such as a journey route that identifies the specific locations for an event or trip that can be customized by users.

A people view as shown in shows thumbnail photos of all the people in the system that can be clicked in for a people profile view. A people profile view as shown in shows a profile picture of an individual their birth death information family relationships overview comments on the person as well as links to other views that contain that individual in the system.

A family tree view as shown in can illustrate interactive family trees where one can see the family tree of an individual or family. If a user clicks on an individual within the family tree it will take him or her to the people profile view of that person.

The timeline view as shown in will be an interactive timeline that allows you to set ranges of digital files by year month and day. The digital files shown in the timeline will also be interactive and if the user clicks on a digital file or group of digital files e.g. event or album the user will then view the information related to the digital file s .

A recipe view as shown in will show a recipe along with any digital files that are associated with it. For example a cherished family recipe may show a digital copy of the original handwritten recipe a photo of the family member who was the chef and a video of the family member making the recipe.

Each of the aforementioned views may also be seen in a chart format view that is interactive when any item on the chart is clicked the user will them be taken to a new screen that details all relevant digital files and file types for the clicked item.

For album or event chart views as shown in the elements listed in those charts will include individuals who are part of each album event number of digital files date and other pertinent information.

A people view shown in may demonstrate all the names of individuals that are in the system in an alphabetical listing. Such a people view can also contain details on each person such as the number of photos and videos that are associated with that person. The user can click on that person to pull up the profile view of the individual or click on the number of photos to see all the photos associated with that person.

In the family tree chart view shown in family lineage can be viewed in multiple ways. For example a user can set himself as the tree anchor and then see a tree of all people entered into the database related to the user. The user could also set a contact as the tree anchor and then just view the descendants of that individual.

For a location chart view as show in listings of all the locations that are in the system are displayed along with the number of digital files as well as names of persons associated with each. A user can click on the location to see all the digital media files that are associated with a specific location.

A recipe chart as shown in can show recipes that uploaded to the system. Along with the ingredients and steps of each recipe this view can identify the chef s name number of photos and videos associated with each.

For any of the views the user can click on the digital file to start a slideshow feature that will allow them to scroll through an enlarged view of the digital file as illustrated in .

Another aspect of the disclosure is the search filter. This filter allows users to select one or more criteria that will narrow down their results to just those digital files matching input criteria. The entire system can be filtered by for example key words or plurality of key words event names location people albums star rating file type document type and dates. A user may filter based on more than one criterion at a time. To help users quickly identify digital files that may still need to be organized the advanced search filter also allows users to isolate files that have no date no location no people no specific date range no upload date information or are lacking any other tag.

It should be noted that in one embodiment searching via key word will search through all tagged information user populated or auto generated upon import . For example if a user searched for the term Ohio the system would search for that term associated with any file in any way. If the user had files with Ohio as a state file name street name person s name file comment etc. all would be retrieved.

Settings applied in the advanced search filter can cumulatively carry over to any subsequent pages until new criteria are selected. For example a user can apply a filter to retrieve files associated with a particular person. Then the user can set a date range to further narrow results to show only those files for that selected person within the date range. Any pages viewed from that point forward throughout the entire site would only contain files associated with person and the date range specified. The advanced search filter is illustrated in .

Yet another feature can be a user s homepage as illustrated in that can summarize the user s content within the system including relevant information in the system. It is contemplated that a user s homepage may show a summary of the total number of photos videos documents and audio files that the user has uploaded. In this embodiment for each group of digital files e.g. photos the percent of files that has been organized with pertinent data such as date name s and location can be noted. In addition the homepage can show a list of people that are in the system and the respective count for photos videos documents and audio files associated with each person. Also contemplated is a summary of the events albums and locations that have been entered into the system. The user homepage may serve as an executive summary dashboard of one s entire system and can be modified to provide data in an executive summary format for a user.

Another feature is that the entire system including the dynamic views can be presented in a wide range of user outputs e.g. on the user s computer smartphone or tablet display. The user may choose to present the digital files in any of the various types of ways disclosed herein. Other ways of outputting the files are also possible. The user can create and modify various sharing rights so that third parties may view the files and if desired provide comments apply tags or even download copy the files for their own use.

Still another embodiment can provide export functionality. Once a user has used the organization functionality to assign information to data file s a user may want to export the data file in its original form e.g. .jpg .mp4 etc. with the tags embedded within the digital file in the form of EXIF tags. In other words a user can export his or her entire set of digital files or may choose a subset based on keywords and tags. The exported digital files can include key tags and attributes users have assigned and in one embodiment such tags and attributes can be embedded within the digital files. For example each exported digital file may be imbedded with user entered data such as the people location and event name. This feature will allow the users to back up their files to another source e.g. external computer hard drive or to transport it to another venue e.g. another website that is used for viewing and or sharing digital files such as a social media website where it can be viewed with these attributes. This export feature can provide users with the advantage of never losing key data that was stored simply because the user chooses to move its digital files to a new digital archiving system.

A method is also disclosed. The method may include the steps of storing a digital file in a file repository associating a plurality of digital tags having different tag types with the digital file providing a search function that permits simultaneously searching by a plurality of digital tag types and provides a search result and providing a user configurable output to display the search result. The digital tag types may include for example a person s name a location a recipe a date a relationship between individuals an event name a rating and a document type.

Under the disclosed method access may be provided to the repository via the Internet. Relationships between users may also be tracked such that a family tree can be displayed. A recipe may also be linked to a user or person. Finally the method may include the step of outputting a digital file and its associated digital tags into a single file.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and have herein been described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A plurality of advantages arise from the various features of the present disclosure. It will be noted that alternative embodiments of various components of the disclosure may not include all of the features described yet still benefit from at least some of the advantages of such features. Those of ordinary skill in the art may readily devise their own implementations of a digital file organization system that incorporate one or more of the features of the present disclosure and fall within the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

Application also called MemoryWeb Application or System The Application is an online program constructed using a mix of freeware code as well as custom built proprietary coding with an interface that has many functions including 1 the ability to import associate and embed Digital Tags to Digital Files by using existing Tags of a Digital File as well as the Application s custom Digital Tag options also called the Application Digital Tag Organizer for use in the Application 2 view sort annotate and share Digital Files from the various Application Views 3 navigate using the proprietary Application Dot Tag System 4 filter Digital Files using the Application Advanced Filter System or Fast Search System 5 store the Digital Files through an interactive Storage System through a User Relationship Table and 6 export the Digital Files with the Digital Tags embedded within the Digital Files. This Application has already been disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 157 214 and incorporated herein by reference. This Application is also being trademarked as MemoryWeb with the US Commissioner for Trademarks on Dec. 26 2013 under application Ser. No. 86 152 930. The Application may be accessible over various user interfaces that may use the Internet and via applications that would be used on mobile communication devices such as smart phones e.g. iPhones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs and Tablets e.g. iPads .

Application Views The Application Views utilizes the Application s ability to associate Digital Tags to Digital Files and display them in customized views such as Uploads Collections Slideshow Location Timeline Family Tree People Profile and Recipes.

Application Advanced Filter System A function that provides search capabilities using one or more Digital Tags within the Application resulting in a narrowed output display of the applied filters to display one or more Digital Files and viewed in one or more Application Views. The Application Advanced Filter System can allow Digital Files to be searched and sorted according to a plurality of types of data and can be used for creating and organizing special views. The user interface may be user configurable and can present the Digital Files on a user s screen based on these user inputs.

Application Dot Tag The manner in which a Digital Tag is displayed within the Application using pill shaped indicators that can reside near a file s image or overlaid on the file s image. MemoryWeb Tags are illustrated as Application Dot Tags within the Application to help the user organize their Digital Files with key components of related information such as people date of file location collection star ranking and recipe. The MemoryWeb Application Dot Tag is more than just text as traditional tagging systems because Memory Web Application Dot Tags act as mini search engines that allow the user to see how many matching files there are to that MemoryWeb Tag and if selected will take the user to the corresponding Application View to illustrate the linked search results of that Application Dot Tag. However it should be understood that other shapes and indicators are contemplated by the present invention and may even be user configurable. For example the indicator may take the form of a sticky note a different shape a doted shape or any number of variations of indicators that may be functional in displaying one or more words. Colors may also be used to indicate differing categories of indicators or differing associations intersection of the indicators. Within the pill shaped indicator the specific Digital Tag information is used to display information about a Digital File. Throughout this document the Application Dot Tag is shown as illustrated in indicators and .

Application Digital Tag Organizer System Within the Application a function for assigning one or more Digital Tags to one or more Digital Files at the same time through the Application Dot Tag Organizer System. This feature allows Digital Tags to be assigned to items such as photos videos audio files and documents. The information created from this functionality drives the outputs for the Application Views. The Application Digital Tag Organizer System will allow the tagging of key items as date GPS location star ranking people both name and facial recognition album s family relationships a date event name sharing rights file type document name and recipes. Each of the Digital Tags is user configurable.

Application Export System Ability to export Digital File s from the Application with the Digital Tags that were created within or imported uploaded into the Application embedded inside the Digital File. The Digital Tags within the exported Digital File can then be viewed and used by any other applications that can read EXIF tags.

Application Programming Interface API The Application Programming Interface API is the system that interacts with other communication points or services over HTTP via a POST GET PUT DELETE methods. The API provides a way for users to access their MemoryWeb data outside of the web browser on mobile devices or other web connected devices. The actions within the API deliver MemoryWeb Digital Files and Digital Tags along with all meta data associated with such files and tags.

MW Automatic Uploader Downloader Application Separate from the main MemoryWeb Application there are additional proprietary applications created by MemoryWeb for user to upload and download export Digital files to and from the main MemoryWeb Application. The first is the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader built for Window s compatible computers. The second is the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader build for MAC computer. Both of the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader applications can be installed on the user s computer to automatically upload the desired Digital Files from their computer to the main MemoryWeb Application. In addition the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader applications allow for Digital Files to be exported from the main MemoryWeb Application to a desired folder on the user s computer with the updated tags embedded within the Digital File.

Storage System A storage system can be a cloud based Storage System e.g. Amazon s AWS Dropbox Box.net Deutsche Telecom s Cloud etc. hard drive server or any venue that allows one s information to be stored. The storage system would act as a database and file repository for storage and retrieval of Digital Files to and from the Application.

Digital Files An electronic file that can be in various file formats e.g. PNG JPEG PDF TIFF MP3 MP4 WAV and GIF that are of items such as photos videos audio files and documents.

Digital Tags The word Digital Tag refers to any type of digital data that can be assigned to a file to distinguish and describe some aspect of that file through a tagging process. Digital Tags will be comprised of various groups of digital data including 

When Digital Files are captured with digital cameras including smartphones scanners and other systems handling image video and sound files certain EXIF tags are automatically populated within the Digital File and can cover a broad spectrum of information such as 

The combination of all the aforementioned tags is collectively referred to as Digital Tags. The list of groups and Digital Tag types will grow as technology in this area improves over time. These Digital Tags are also referred to as File DNA for MemoryWeb.

User Relationship Table Within the Application each User will store the data related to Digital Files Digital Tags User Settings and other specific information related to a User s repository of information is kept within the User Relationship Table.

Data Blocks Within the User Relationship Table there are Data Blocks that will store information related to EXIF Tags Microsoft Windows Tags MemoryWeb Tags and MemoryWeb Person Tags. These Data Blocks are used to generate the information that is displayed in such key components such as the Application Views and Application Dot Tags.

Custom Code Proprietary scripts and code developed by MemoryWeb to enable key functions such as Dot Tag relationships and ability to embed new user defined tags into a file and or override existing EXIF tags and the ability to navigate the application and it s functions via connections drawn from the associated tags

Open Source Libraries Non proprietary code taken from the free open source community integrated that is used by the Application.

User Interface The Application may be accessible over various User Interfaces including Personal Computers e.g. Macs Windows etc. Personal Digital Assistants PDA e.g. iPhones and Tablets e.g. iPad . The User Interfaces can be controlled through the Application using various tools such as a keyboard mouse and touch screen.

The present invention relates to an Application that has many functions including 1 the ability to import associate and embed Digital Tags to Digital Files by using existing Tags of a Digital File as well as the Application s custom Digital Tag options also called the Application Digital Tag Organizer for use in the Application 2 view sort annotate and share Digital Files from the various Application Views 3 navigate using the proprietary Application Dot Tag System 4 filter Digital Files using the Application Advanced Filter System or Fast Search System 5 store the Digital Files through an interactive Storage System through a User Relationship Table and 6 export the Digital Files with the Digital Tags embedded within the Digital Files.

Prior to the invention of digital photography people tended to share photos by displaying printed copies in frames and albums or would store them in a container in hope of preserving these assets for future use or future generations. Important photos would often be inscribed on the back with significant details people location and event to preserve the memory of that particular occasion. Many people would share their memories by assembling an album that could be viewed with others. Occasionally extra copies of special photos may have been printed for friends relatives etc. At one time film slide shows were also a popular medium for sharing photo memories.

With the evolution of Digital Files there has been explosive growth in the number of individuals taking digital photos converting old photos to digital copies making movies and gathering digital documents and in the sheer number of files people are capturing digitally. Today virtually every personal computing device contains some kind of photo movie or other type of digital file creator player viewer storer etc.

At the same time there is little to no cost for people to store large amounts of photos in various containers of the modern age. Facebook Flickr Shutterfly and countless other social media and specialty Digital Files sites allow users to post and share images to a community with a frequency and ease that continues to feed the fire of the digital revolution. However they don t allow much organization of Digital Tags dynamic viewing of Digital Files and the ability to export the Digital Files with new Digital Tags. Questionable and ever changing privacy terms for user account information including digital files have also left the marketplace leery of posting their full digital archive and associated context to these sites.

What is needed to complement the widespread availability of Digital Files is a medium that allows people to organize view navigate search preserve and share these files with all the memory details captured connected and vivified via an interactive interface. Such a solution would allow Digital Files including documents photos videos and audio to tell a full story now and for generations to come.

As disclosed in detail herein the application provides the much needed platform that saves a user significant time provides significant information with minimal screen space and provides an appealing and customizable interface that will enhance the user experience.

Anytime the MemoryWeb Application exchanges information with an external Storage System or User Interface such as a phone tablet computer or other internet based user device the interaction with the MemoryWeb Application involves Application Programming Interface API . The API s allow each system to call the specific Digital Files and Digital Tags associated with each request so they can be viewed.

Additional features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the invention as presently perceived.

The present disclosure relates to one or more of the following features elements or combinations thereof. The Application allows the importation of Digital Files and then the association of Digital Tags to the Digital Files by using existing EXIF Tags of a Digital File as well as the Application s custom organization of Digital Tags for use in the Application. The Application then allows the Digital Files to be viewed sorted annotated navigated and shared using the various Application Views. The Application can also filter Digital Files using the Application Advanced Filter System functionality. The Digital Files can be stored through a Storage System that interacts with the Application. In addition the Application allows for Digital Files to be exported with the Application s Digital Tags embedded within the Digital Files.

The Application may be accessible over various user interfaces that may use the Internet and via applications that would be used on User Interfaces such as Personal Digital Assistants PDA e.g. iPhones and Tablets e.g. iPad .

The presently disclosed Application provides users with an interactive platform to gather organize view share and archive Digital Files using a proprietary organization system called the Application Digital Tag Organizer and export the modified Digital files with the Application s Digital Tags embedded within the Digital Flies using the Application Export feature.

The Application allows users to create navigate search view and share Digital Files which could represent for example the memories a user has collected from the past and present and could incorporate additional memories for generations to come. As outlined herein various embodiments are disclosed that can accomplish these and other goals.

In the overall process flow of MemoryWeb is depicted. Each of the boxes depicted that are Inside the Memory Web System are detailed additional figures within this application. However to help illustrate the overall process flow was created. In the process begins when original digital file s are uploaded to MemoryWeb . This process can take place in a variety of ways including when a user manually selects uploads from the Uploads Application View see indicator installs the a MW Automatic Uploader Downloader Application on their computer or imports Digital Files from the users other sources e.g. mobile phones social networks etc. .

Once a file is uploaded the System Reading Phase begins. Information from the System Reading Phase is then sent to the System Interpreting and Adding Data to Relationship Table Phase . During this phase information is passed back and forth to the Third Party Facial Recognition System to the Third Party Facial Recognition Provider . The system will also coordinate between the Third Party Social Media Data Exchange and then to various Third Party Media Providers . Another key step from the System Interpreting and Adding Data to Relationship Table Phase is adding both the Digital Files and the corresponding tags to the User Relationship Table . As illustrated in subsequent figures within the patent application the User Relationship Table serves as the key repository for all of the user s data that generates virtually every display from the application. From the User Relationship Table the user can use the Applications Digital Tag Organizer System the Continuous Link of the Application Dot Tag System the Advanced Filters System or the Keyword Fast Search System . The user can also share Digital File s through the Share to Social Network Provider System to a Third Party Social Network Provider that is outside the MemoryWeb system or use the Share to Individual System to a Person that is Outside the MemoryWeb system using the data from the User Relationship Table. To help generate some of the map views the system will utilize a Third Party Geographical Mapping System that connects to a Third Party Geographical Mapping Provider that is Outside the MemoryWeb system. The user can also export Digital Files with the Digital Tags embedded within the Digital File using the Application Export System that will send a MemoryWeb Modified File from MemoryWeb to a designated location by the User that is outside the MemoryWeb system.

As illustrated in the System Reading Phase is described in further detail. The System Reading Phase will first check if the digital file is a duplicate file that is already in the User s collection. If the file is a duplicate it will not be uploaded . However if it is a new file for the user the System Reading Phase will then locate the EXIF Image File Directories in the digital file and then send that information to the System Interpreting and Adding Data to Relationship Table Phase .

As further illustrated in the System Interpreting and Adding Data to Relationship Table Phase will take the EXIF Image File Directories sent from the System Reading Phase and read and iterate through each EXIF tag item . At this time the system will identify faces from the digital file and then send this information to the Third Party Facial Recognition System that will coordinate with the Third Party Facial Recognition Provider that is outside the MemoryWeb. When the Third Party Facial Recognition System sends back data related to facial recognition of faces in the Digital File it comes back then the system sends information related to people facial recognition tags to the MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Blocks within the User Relationship Table . The detailed process of the Third Party Facial Recognition System is further explained in .

During the Read Integrate Through Each EXIF Tag item the process will also upload a the original Digital File in MemoryWeb the process will also store a copy of the original file within the User Relationship Table and create five duplicate copies of different resolution sizes as follows XL Duplicate File Large Duplicate File Medium Duplicate File Small Duplicate File and a Thumbnail Duplicate File . Each duplicate file is used in different parts of the application depending upon the photo size needed for such areas within the Application such as Application Views Application Dot Tags and Application Digital Tag Organizer System.

Another embodiment during the Read and iterate through each EXIF tag item stage is determining if a MemoryWeb tag exists . A MemoryWeb tag is a Digital Tag that is currently being used as an Application Dot Tag within the Application. If it is not a Digital Tag that MemoryWeb is currently using the application will Save EXIF data to the User Relationship Table for Digital File and send this to the User Relationship table. This is done in case there are EXIF data that are desired to be used in future releases of the Application. For the Digital Tags that are being used in the Application the system will Parse EXIF data into MemoryWeb Tags look up MW tag data and determine if a Digital Tag currently exists . If a Digital Tag does not exist the system will Create a new MW tag data and send this to the appropriate Data Blocks within the User Relationship Table . If Digital Tag data does exist the system will Associate existing tag data to the appropriate Data Blocks within the User Relationship Table .

The third and final area within is the System Indexing Digital Files and Tag Data Blocks for a Digital File within the User Relationship table . In the User Relationship Table the user s information system information stored such as User Settings . Copies of the Original Digital File XL Duplicate File Large Duplicate File Medium Duplicate File Small Duplicate File and Thumbnail Duplicate File are stored. The final area of the User Relationship Table relates to the data blocks including EXIF Tag Data Blocks Microsoft Windows Tag Data Blocks MemoryWeb Tag Data Blocks and MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Blocks .

In there are two charts that illustrate EXIF and MemoryWeb Tag Data Blocks. The first chart illustrates the EXIF Tags Version 2.3 Data Blocks . For the EXIF Tags Version 2.3 Data Blocks the information from this table is an expert from an Open Source Library code produced by the Standardization Committee that is detailed within their document called Standard of the Camera Imaging Products Association. While all the EXIF tags that are contained within a Digital File are read as previously illustrated in within the System Interpreting and Adding Data to Relationship Table Phase and are stored within the system s User Relationship Table a summary of the primary EXIF tags that are currently used within MemoryWeb are illustrated in the EXIF Tag Blocks . The EXIF tag information is organized into different Image File Directories IFD s or Data Blocks within an image and organized in the column heading of Tag Label . The names of these IFD s correspond to an EXIF standard for ExifTool family 1 group names that are depicted in the column heading of EXIF Group . The IFD s are stored within a specific data block location within a Digital File and these locations have a standard name of the specific location within the Digital File. The primary EXIF tags that are read and used by MemoryWeb to generate Application Dot Tags are Description Title Description Rating Origin Date Taken Digital File Width Digital File Height User Comment GPS Latitude GPS Latitude Ref GPS Longitude and GPS Longitude Ref .

In the second chart illustrates the MemoryWeb Tag Data Blocks that overlap with standard EXIF Tag blocks. As previously illustrated in the EXIF Tag Data blocks are read and brought into the User Relationship Table . When the data is stored within the system s User Relationship Table they are also stored with the corresponding EXIF tag label as illustrated in the column called MemoryWeb Tag . For example when a Digital File is brought into MemoryWeb and the system reads the Origin Date Taken for the EXIF Tag block the system will denote this in the MemoryWeb table as MediaAsset.DateCreated . This designation is very important as it allows MemoryWeb to re inject any updated or new MemoryWeb Tag data into the corresponding standard EXIF Tag blocks of a Digital File when it is exported from MemoryWeb as previously illustrated in with the Application Export System . Continuing with this example if the Origin Date Taken is modified within the MemoryWeb system when the file is exported through the Application Export System the new updated date from MemoryWeb will be mapped to the EXIF Tag Data block with the Tag Label of Origin Date Taken with the EXIF Group called ExifIFD and the Location called 0x9003 .

In situations where there is no standard EXIF Tag data block for the MemoryWeb Tag for such items such as Collections People Location Name Recipe Name etc. they are mapped to a general EXIF Tag data block called User Comment . As the standards for EXIF Tag data blocks change the system can be mapped to any new specific EXIF Tag data blocks. For example if an EXIF Tag Data block is made for Recipe Name the MemoryWeb Tag related to Recipe Name will be mapped specifically to that new EXIF Tag data block as opposed to User Comment.

In there are two charts that illustrate Microsoft Windows and MemoryWeb Tag Data Blocks. The first chart illustrates the standard Windows Imaging Component WIC Metadata Data Blocks . Microsoft Windows has their metadata tag blocks contained in areas called Tag Labels . The primary WIC Metadata data blocks that are read and used by MemoryWeb to generate Application Dot Tags are File Name and File Folder Path . The corresponding MemoryWeb Tag data blocks for the WIC metadata tag blocks are called MediaAsset.Filename for the Microsoft file name and MediaAsset.UploadBatch.Batchname for the Microsoft File Folder Path. The ability for MemoryWeb to read the File Folder Path from Microsoft is a unique process used within MemoryWeb to help the user organize their photos based upon the organization methods they have already used within Microsoft. For example if the user stored a group of photos on their Microsoft computer in the file directory C Photos 2013 First Day of School MemoryWeb will automatically place the photos that were located within that Microsoft File Folder Path into a MemoryWeb Application Dot Tag under a collection called First Day of School based upon the last folder within the file folder path. An example of the Application Dot Tag that would be generated from the File Folder Path is in with the label First Day of School In addition MemoryWeb will allow the user to view the photos that are within a specific File Folder Path in the MemoryWeb Uploads Application View so that the user can organize photos from the same File Folder Path. An example of how this will be illustrated within MemoryWeb s Uploads Application View is in with the groping of photos with the File Path Name C Photos 2013 First Day of School .

In the MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Blocks that are contained with a User Relationship Table are illustrated. For any person that is added within a user s account various MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Blocks are stored including Person Name Nickname Birthdate Date of Death Biography Mother Father Brother s Sister s Daughter s Son s Spouse s Facial Recognition FacebookID Pets and other data blocks that will be added in the future as the Application grows . These data blocks are primarily used in the People Profile Application View as illustrated in indicator . One embodiment within the MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Block contains the FacebookID . As illustrated in indicator information from Third Party Media Providers will be exchanged within MemoryWeb and the user s FacebookID will be provided and stored within the MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Block. In addition any of the User s contacts from Facebook will also be downloaded into the corresponding MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Blocks for any matching persons within the User s MemoryWeb account. The information from the Third Party Media Providers that are stored within MemoryWeb will be used to provide push notifications to the user for various items such as when the user or any one of its contacts posts a photo to that Social Media venue.

As illustrated in the Third Party Facial Recognition System is described in further detail. As photos are imported or uploaded into the Application the systems will request thumbnail Digital Files from the User Relationship Table . On a routine basis e.g. daily the system will retrieve all the thumbnails of Digital Files with unconfirmed faces and the send those Digital Files to the Third Party Recognition Provider . The Third Party Facial Recognition Provider uses their algorithms to find location of eyes nose mouth and many other points for each face detected in the photo. They will also determine gender check if the person is smiling have eyes open lips sealed or wearing glasses. The Third Party Facial Recognition Provider will use their algorithms to associate potential matches of faces for the user s collection of photos. For each face the system will send back attributes including gender male female glasses true false smiling true false lips sealed parted eyes open closed mood happy sad angry surprised disgusted scared neutral field in the response have two subfields value string and confidence integer . For each attribute the Third Party Facial Recognition Provider will assign percentages of confidence 0 to 100 for each attribute that can be used by the MemoryWeb Application to utilize.

The Third Party Facial Recognition Provider will then send the information relating to a person back to MemoryWeb . The MemoryWeb Application parse the identified faces and corresponding Facial Recognition data for each Digital File . The system will interact with the User Relationship Table and determine if the face is an existing i.e. trained face in MemoryWeb where there is a Face ID in the User Relationship Table . If not the system generates a facial recognition record for unknown person and then sends information to MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Blocks in User Relationship Table . If yes the system will then determine if the face is above the system s thresholds for confirming a face is a specific person in the user s MemoryWeb system . If no system generates virtual unconfirmed facial recognition record for person and then sends information to MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Blocks in User Relationship Table . If yes the system records and associates specific face for Digital File with a MemoryWeb Person ID and sends to MemoryWeb Person Tag Data Blocks in User Relationship Table .

Typically the ability to confirm and deny facial recognition matches will be within the People Profile Application View as illustrated in within the facial recognitions area indicator . The system will also have other facial resonations area where the user can confirm or deny the suggested facial recognitions of a person for a Digital File. When the user denies the suggested facial recognition the system dis associates potential person match Tag search s the user s collection for other potential matches and then sends information to Tag Data Block of Relationship Table for the Digital File. If the user accepts the suggested facial recognition the system sends this facial recognition tag confirmation to the User Relationship Table for the Digital File. Once a confirmation is made the newly associated Digital File will have that confirmed person Application Dot Tag associated to that Digital File for all Application Views. Each time an accepted or denied facial recognition is made for a specific person the specific data points used for facial recognition is improved and sent to the Third Party Facial Recognition Provider for more accurate confirmations of that person during the next run for that person.

As illustrated in the Third Party Media System Data Exchange is described in further detail. There are numerous types of third party media systems that are contemplated for MemoryWeb including social network providers e.g. Facebook Twitter and LinkedIn and other photo sites e.g. Flickr and Picasa . In addition it is contemplated for the ability to print Digital Files from MemoryWeb using third party print providers such as Walgreens or Shutterfly. Further contemplated solutions might be from digital file warehouses such as Dropbox and box.net. All of the Third Party Media Systems will interact with MemoryWeb using the same system that is described within . The Third Party Social Media System starts when the user initiates sharing of their information with Third Party Media Provider with MemoryWeb . When this is initiated the system will send registration information to the Third Party Media Provider . Once received the Third Party Media Provider will send back a confirmation with the Third Party Social Media ID and then the system will send the information to the User Settings Table within the User Relationship Table . The system will then send daily requests from the User Relationship Table for contact names and IDs to the Social Media Provider . If there are new contact names that are not part of the user s current people the system will receive new contact names and IDs from the Social Media Provider . The user will have the ability to confirm or deny matches with their contacts within MemoryWeb. If there is a match the system will associate the existing person within MemoryWeb to the same ID of the person within the Third Party Social Media platform and then send this to the User Relationship Table. If there is not a match the system will add this additional contact as a new person and send this to the User Relationship Table. If the user wants to share or print Digital Files from MemoryWeb they can do this with the Share to Third Party Media Provider System that is further detailed within .

In the MemoryWeb User Settings Table is illustrated. As illustrated in the User Settings Table various data blocks of information is stored including the User s Name Payment ID that is used with third party payment providers Password Account Type i.e. free or paid account User s email Language preference Date format preference Email notification preferences the ability to share Contacts with third Party Social Media Facebook ID API Token Payment Date and other settings that will evolve as the Application grows .

In the Application Digital Tag Organizer System is illustrated. Within various Application Views the user can select add delete and edit MemoryWeb Tags for such areas as people date location collections star rankings and recipes. An illustration of an Uploads Application View where MemoryWeb Tags for a Digital File can be selected added deleted or edited is illustrated in . The Application Digital Tag Organizer System begins when the user selects one or more Digital Files in MemoryWeb . The system then sends a request to the User Relationship Table for the specific Digital File . The system then retrieves the Digital File and the Digital File Tag Data Blocks from the User Relationship Table . Next the system will display the Digital File and the corresponding Digital File Tag Data Blocks in the form of Application Dot Tags . An example of how the system can illustrate a Digital File with the corresponding Application Dot Tags is in indicators and .

If the user selects an Application Dot Tag the system will utilize the Continuous Link of Application Dot Tags System to produce the results of that Application Dot Tag within one of the Application Views that is later illustrated in .

If the user selects add for a MemoryWeb Tag the user can add a new MemoryWeb Tag. When the user begins to type in text to add a tag the system will produce suggestions on matching MemoryWeb Tags or the option to add a new tag . If a matching tag is selected the system associates the new MemoryWeb tag to the Tag Block of the Relationship Table for the Digital File . Alternatively if the tag does not exist the user can create a new MemoryWeb Tag and then the system associates the new MemoryWeb tag to the Tag Block of the Relationship Table for the Digital File .

If the user selects edit for a MemoryWeb Application Dot Tag the user can add information text to edit the MemoryWeb Tag and the system will produce suggestions or matching MemoryWeb tags or the option to add a new tag . If there is a match within the user s system the matching MemoryWeb Tag will appear and the user can select the MemoryWeb Tag . Once the matching tag is selected the system associates the new MemoryWeb tag to the Tag Block of the Relationship Table for the Digital File . Alternatively the user can create a new MemoryWeb Tag and then the system associates the new MemoryWeb tag to the Tag Block of the Relationship Table for the Digital File . If the user selects delete for a MemoryWeb Application Dot Tag the system deletes the association of MemoryWeb tag to Tag Data Block of Relationship Table for Digital File .

In the Application Dot Tag Shape and Content is illustrated . MemoryWeb Tags are illustrated as Application Dot Tags within the Application to help the user organize their Digital Files with key components of related information such as people date of file location collection star ranking and recipe. The MemoryWeb Application Dot Tag is more than just text as traditional tagging systems because Memory Web Application Dot Tags act as mini search engines that allow the user to see how many matching files there are to that MemoryWeb Tag and if selected will take the user to the corresponding Application View to illustrate the linked search results of that Application Dot Tag as illustrated in . In essence the Application Dot Tags operate as mini search engines for the user s Digital Tags.

The structure of an Application Dot Tag can take on an solid line enclosed shape of a pill dot or similar depiction and within the shape the name of the MemoryWeb Tag is displayed along with the number of Digital Files that are also associated with that same MemoryWeb Tag. further illustrates more examples of the Application Dot Tags. If the number of Digital Files associated with a specific MemoryWeb Tag is less than a certain number e.g. 1000 the actual number of Digital Files associated with that MemoryWeb Tag is displayed. In this is illustrated with an Application Dot Tag that has 453 files that are associated with the location of Cologne Germany . However if the number of Digital Files associated with a specific MemoryWeb tag are greater than the character length a greater sign along with a number sequence that is less than the total number of associated Digital Files will be displayed . In this is illustrated with an Application Dot Tag that has 999 as the number of Digital Files with the exact same MemoryWeb Tag and if the name of the MemoryWeb tag is longer than the text sequence only a portion of the MemoryWeb tag will be displayed along with an ellipse as illustrated with Holiday Photos from . . . . Finally the Application Dot Tag may be illustrated with a dotted or similar distinction as opposed to a solid line to help indicate a partial relationship . In the illustration in the dotted line is to indicate that only some of the selected Digital Files have the MemoryWeb Tag of Frank Smith.

In the Continuous Link of Dot Tag System is illustrated . When a user selects an Application Dot Tag it will take them to the corresponding Application View that relates to the type of MemoryWeb Tag. The Continuous Link of Application Dot Tag System begins when a user selects an Application Dot Tag .

If the Application Dot Tag is a Person the system will send a request to display the requested information to the User Relationship Table . A sample illustration of how a user can select a person Application Dot Tag is in indicator . For a person tag the system receives data for that person from the User Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in a People Profile View . A sample illustration of a selected Person Application Dot Tag is in indicator .

If the Application Dot Tag is a Collection the system will send a request to display the requested information to the User Relationship Table . A sample illustration of a collection Application Dot Tag that can be selected is in indicator . For a collection tag the system receives data for that collection from the User Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in a Collection View . A sample illustration of a selected Collection Application Dot Tag within a Collection View is in indicator .

If the Application Dot Tag is a Location the system will send a request to display the requested information to the User Relationship Table . A sample illustration of a location Application Dot Tag that can be selected is in indicator . For a location tag the system receives data for that location from the User Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in a Location View . A sample illustration of a selected Location Application Dot Tag within a Location View is in indicator .

If the Application Dot Tag is a Date the system will send a request to display the requested information to the User Relationship Table . A sample illustration of a date Application Dot Tag that can be selected is in indicator . For a date tag the system receives data for that date from the User Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in Uploads View with that date filtered . A sample illustration of a selected Date Application Dot Tag within Uploads View is in indicator .

If the Application Dot Tag is a Recipe the system will send a request to display the requested information to the User Relationship Table . For a recipe tag the system receives data for that recipe from the User Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in a Recipe View with that date filtered . A sample illustration of a selected Date Application Dot Tag within Recipe View is in indicator .

The Application is contemplated to have additional types of Application Dot Tags in the future including Family Trees Timespan etc. and each of these MemoryWeb Tags will go through the same continuous link of Application Dot Tag process. For an additional type of Application Dot Tag the system will receive data from the User Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in the corresponding view for that type of Application Dot Tag .

If within any of the Application Views the user selects a Digital File the Digital File is then displayed in a Slideshow View where the user can again select an Application Dot Tag and start the continuous link of Application Dot Tag functionality over again. Also within an Application View if the user selects another Application Dot Tag the entire continuous link of Application Dot Tag functionality begins again and sends the request back to ask if the newly selected Application Dot Tag is a person .

In the Slideshow view of a Digital File Application Dot Tags and comments are illustrated . When viewing a Digital File or group of Digital Files within the Slideshow Application View the selected Digital File is displayed in the center of the screen . If the user wants to export this photo with all the associated MemoryWeb Tags they can select export which will initiate the Application Export System as illustrated in . If the user wants to see the Digital File that is one file before the selected Digital File they select the left arrow or they can select the right arrow to display the next photo in the sequence. Below the Digital File the comments that are specific to that Digital file are depicted. If the user wants to edit the comments they select edit . If the user would like to see a moving slideshow of all the photos that are part of the group of Digital Files they can select on the play sign or simply click the specific thumbnail of a Digital File to be displayed. The user can also have the slideshow in a full screen slideshow by selecting the full screen icon . If the user wants to share the individual Digital file via email they can select the mail icon or share it through a third party median provider in this case Facebook . A more detailed description on how the share functionality works is in indicator .

In each Application Dot Tag that is associated with a Digital File is illustrated to the right of the Digital File under each major MemoryWeb Tag area. For this example the People area has Application Dot Tags of Jackson Smith and J C Smith associated with the selected Digital File. In the Dates area the Application Dot Tag of Aug. 28 2013 is associated with the selected Digital File. In the Locations Area the Application Dot Tag of Abe Lincoln Elementary School in the location associated with the selected Digital File. In the Collections Area the Application Dot Tags of First Day of School and Jackson and J C Photos 2013 are associated with the selected Digital File. The Star Rankings Area shows that four out of five stars was selected for this Digital File. If the Digital File is associated with a Recipe the Application Dot Tag would be illustrated in this area. The Media Type area indicates that this is a Memento . If the user wants to delete this Digital File from the Application they can select the Delete Item function . If the user wants to edit the Application Dot Tags they can select the edit icon and all the MemoryWeb Tag areas will be in edit mode as later illustrated in . Finally any original Digital File detail e.g. file name camera specifications etc. is illustrated .

In both of the People Application Views are illustrated. The first People Application View is used to display all the people that were created within the user s Application. This view can be seen by selecting People from any of the Application Views within the Application. The people can be listed in various sort orders though a drop down such as Newest to Oldest added Oldest to Newest added Alphabetical A Z Alphabetical Z A etc. Additional sorts are contemplated such as age sort. For each person a thumbnail of their face along with their name is depicted. In this figure Jon Smith and J C Jon Smith along with some other people are illustrated. Also the user can determine if they want to have 20 50 or 100 people shown at one time by selecting the corresponding number box. At the top of every Application View within the Application the user can select Fast Search that is further described in . Also at the top of every Application View within the Application the user can select Apply Filters that is further described in .

In the second People Application View within a single people profile is illustrated. The individuals name is displayed at the top of the page along with their Nicknames when they were Born who their parents are Siblings Children and the person s Biography . The Person Profile Photo of that individual is illustrated and if the user wants to change the profile photo they can change by selecting change profile photo . For each person the system can allow the user to quickly see all the tags that are associated to a person. In this example the system illustrates that there are four photos associated with that person and will also illustrate thumbnails of each of the four photos . These thumbnails can be selected and then the user will be taken to the slideshow view for that Digital File. If the user selects Collections all of the collections that the person has been tagged within will be displayed. If the user selects Facial Recognitions all the faces that are confirmed or need to be confirmed are displayed. This is the area where the user can select to confirm or deny a suggested facial recognition through the Third Party Facial Recognition System that is illustrated in . If the user selects Locations all of the Locations that the specific person has been tagged within will be displayed. If the user selects Family Relationships the seven people that the user is associated with will be displayed in a family chart or tree. If the user selects Recipe all the recipe s that the user has been tagged within will be displayed. If the user wants to edit any details within the individual people profile they can select edit and all the fields will allow the ability to edit the details. If the user selects any of the Application Dot Tags such as the individuals mother Jane Smith Doe the application will utilize the Continuous Link of Application Dot Tag System see and take the user to an individual people profile view of Jane Smith Doe . If the user selects View all People the Application will go back to the multiple People View .

In both of the Collection Application Views are illustrated. The first Collection Application View is used to display all the collections that were created within the user s Application . This view can be seen by selecting Collections from any of the Application Views within the Application. The collections can be listed in various sort orders though a drop down such as Newest to Oldest added Oldest to Newest added Alphabetical A Z Alphabetical Z A etc. For each collection a thumbnail of a Digital File from that collection depicted. In this figure Smith Family Photos Europe Trip First Day of School Jackson and J C Photos 2013 and Baseball Games is illustrated. At the top of every Application View within the Application the user can select Fast Search that is further described in . Also at the top of every Application View within the Application the user can select Apply Filters that is further described in .

In the second Collections Application View within a single collection is illustrated. The individual collection name is displayed at the top of the page . Thumbnails of each Digital File within the specific collections are illustrated. In this example the system shows photos associated with the Smith Family Photos Collection. If the user wants to edit any Digital Files within the collection they can select edit and then the user can add or delete any Digital Files as well as set the cover photo for a collection. If the user wants to share this collection they can select a method to share and this will take the user through the Share to Third Party Media Provider System illustrated later in . If the user selects View all Collections the Application will go back to the multiple Collection View .

In both of the Location Application Views are illustrated. The first Location Application View is used to display all the locations that were created within the user s Application . This view can be seen by selecting Locations from any of the Application Views within the Application. The locations can be listed in various sort orders though a drop down such as Newest to Oldest added Oldest to Newest added Alphabetical A Z Alphabetical Z A etc. For each location a thumbnail of a Digital File from that location depicted. In this figure Wrigley Field Abe Lincoln Elementary School Home Sweet Home and Stonehenge is illustrated. What is also contemplated instead of a Digital File from that location is that a zoomed in image of a map from the specific location using the Third Party Geographical Mapping System later depicted in . At the top of every Application View within the Application the user can select Fast Search that is further described in . Also at the top of every Application View within the Application the user can select Apply Filters that is further described in .

In the second Locations Application View within a single location is illustrated. The individual location name is displayed at the top of the page . Thumbnails of each Digital File within the specific collections are illustrated. In this example the system illustrates a one photo taken at Wrigley Field that is associated with the location called Wrigley Field. If the user wants to edit any Digital Files within the collection they can select edit and then the user can add or delete any Digital Files. If the user wants to share the Digital Files associated with this location they can select a method to share and this will take the user through the Share to Third Party Media Provider System illustrated later in . If the user selects View all Collections the Application will go back to the multiple Collection View . As part of the individual Location View an interactive map displaying a zoomed in image of the specific location is displayed .

In the Uploads Application View and how it uses the Application Digital Tag Organizer System is illustrated . Similar to the concept of writing certain information on the back of a photo the system s digital tagging system also called Application Digital Tag Organizer allows a user to select large amounts of Digital Files and add Digital Tags that can characterize and document the digital file s . Digital Files can be individually or group organized at the same time for many tags including but not limited to a person s name family relationships of the subjects to the user and between each other e.g. mother father location date album comments document type e.g. birth certificate poetry recipe ranking or rating and sharing rights. One or more Digital Files can be selected at the same time and displayed with an overlaid check mark when activated and and then Digital Tags can be assigned to a single file at a time or to a plurality of files at once. For example if a user wishes to assign the tag grandma to 100 photos at once the system provides a way for a user to select all 100 photos and enter the tag only once. In addition the system does include an indicator that appears when a user hovers over the Digital File providing all the relevant Digital Tags associated with that specific Digital File and in this example it shows the caption of Family Smith finally sees Stonehenge that four People are tagged to this photo one collection is tagged to this photo there are zero people recognized through Facial Recognition and the date of this photo is from Dec. 21 2013. If the user wants to delete a single photo from uploads they can click on the x that is displayed when the user hovers over the Digital File thumbnail. When there are multiple Digital Files the user can determine how many images are displayed at one time in the Items Per Page Buttons that include such numbers at 20 50 and 100 on the page at the same time. When there is are more Digital Files that items per page they are automatically grouped by pages and a Page Button can be selected to see the next set of Digital Files.

In the Uploads Location View Digital Files can be directly uploaded to the Application by selecting Upload Files and the user will have the option to select the specific Digital Files to be uploaded from their Storage System. Users also have the option to install the MemoryWeb Download Application that can be installed on either a Microsoft or MAC computer that will automatically upload and sync photos to and from the users Storage System to the MemoryWeb Application. Also displayed is the amount of space being used by the user within the Application . Uploads of Digital Files can be listed in various sort orders though a drop down such as Newest to Oldest added Oldest to Newest added Alphabetical A Z Alphabetical Z A etc. In addition the Digital Files can be sorted by File Batch Name A Z or File Batch Name Z A . In the sort of File Batch Name A Z is selected and this provides three groups of Digital Files with the names File Folder C 2013 Family Fun File Folder C 2013 General and of File Folder C 2013 First Day of School . The File Batch Name is created when Digital Files are uploaded to the Application. The File Batch Name allows the user to see the file directory of how they had their Digital Files stored from another Storage System e.g. on their computer hard drive that allows for easier organization within the MemoryWeb Application. For example in the sort of File Folder C 2013 General two digital files and are illustrated that came from the exact same file folder path of the Users Storage system upon upload. At the top of every Application View within the Application the user can select Fast Search that is further described in . Also at the top of every Application View within the Application the user can select Apply Filters that is further described in .

On the right side of the associated Application Dot Tags along with the ability to organize one or more Digital Files at the same time is illustrated. At the top of the screen it shows how two Digital Files are selected that correspond to the selected checked Digital Files and . Below this area illustrates all the Application Dot Tags that are associated with the two selected Digital Files. The user has the option to select all the Digital Files being viewed in the Uploads View as well as selecting none . By selecting all the user can administer Application Dot Tags to all the selected Digital Files at the same time. If the user wants to delete Digital Files they can select the Digital Files to be deleted and then select the Delete Selection option.

In each Application Dot Tag that is associated with the selected Digital File s is illustrated. For this example the People area has Application Dot Tags of Jackson Smith Jane Smith Jon Smith and J C Smith that are associated with the two selected Digital Files and . If the user wants to add a person to all the selected Digital Files they can click on Add People that will display a pop up where the user can search for an existing person within the user s existing people within the Application or add a new person to the user s group of people within the Application. It is contemplated to have a Facial Recognition suggestions appear in this area of the Application that will allow users to confirm or deny a recognized person to a specific Digital File. However the current version of the People area is useful for situations where a face is not recognized but the user desires to tag a person to a Digital File they can manually assign a Person Application Dot Tag to that Digital File for an existing person e.g. if the person s back is turned it is a document that contains that person a piece of art created by that person etc. .

In the Dates area the organize functionality for assigning a Digital Tag of a date within the Digital File s is illustrated. Upon upload the date when the Digital File was created is automatically read by the Application and illustrated as an Application Dot Tag and . As illustrated in the Dates area the Application Dot Tags of Jul. 4 2013 and Aug. 28 2013 are illustrated as they correspond to the dates that are associated with each of the selected Digital Files. If the user wants to change the date for all the selected Digital Files they can click on Add Edit Date that will display a pop up where the user can add a new date for the selected digital files within the Application. This is a very useful feature when an incorrect date is assigned to a digital file e.g. if a photo from Oct. 31 1951 was digitized on Dec. 31 2012 the digitized dates would show as an Application Dot Tag that the user can change in this section to the correct date of Oct. 31 1951 .

In the Locations area the organize functionality for assigning Digital Tags of locations within the Digital File s is illustrated. Upon upload the GPS location of where the Digital File was created if applicable is automatically read by the Application and illustrated as an Application Dot Tag for locations of the selected files. In the locations area the Application Dot Tags of Abe Lincoln Elementary School and Wrigley Field are illustrated as they correspond to the locations that are associated with each of the selected Digital Files. If the user wants to change the location for all the selected Digital Files they can click on Add Edit location that will display a pop up where the user can search for an existing location within the user s existing locations within the Application or add a new location to the user s group of locations within the Application. Another added function to assign a location to the selected Digital Files is to use Search with Map that utilizes the Application s Third Party Geographical Mapping System that is further illustrated in that allows the user to type in any relevant information e.g. location name address state etc. and then the Application will search and pinpoint that location on a map.

In the Collections Area the organize functionality for assigning Digital Tags of albums within the Digital File s is illustrated. Digital Files can be associated to multiple albums. As illustrated in the Collections area the Application Dot Tags of First Day of School Jackson and J C Photos 2013 and Baseball Games are associated with the Collections for the selected Digital Files. If the user wants to add a Collection to all the selected Digital Files they can click on Add Create Collection that will display a pop up where the user can search for an existing Collection within the user s existing Collections within the Application or add a new Collection to the user s group of Collections within the Application.

Within the Uploads View the ability to perform similar tagging of Star Rankings Recipes Family Relationships and Media Types Document Type are also contemplated as part of the Application Digital Tag Organizer System. For Star Rankings it is contemplated to assign MemoryWeb Tags of star rankings within the Digital File s . Upon upload if the star ranking is already contained within the Digital File it is automatically read by the Application and illustrated as an Application Dot Tag. The user can select one or more Digital Files and then apply a star ranking between 1 and 5 in the Uploads Application View. For Recipes it is contemplated to assign MemoryWeb Tags of Recipes to Digital File s . The user can select one or more Digital Files and then type within the Recipe search bar to either add a new recipe or associate the Digital File s to an existing recipe. Digital Files can be associated to multiple recipes. For Media Type Document Type the user can choose from a list of common document types e.g. Birth Certificate Death Certificate Marriage Certificate etc. can be utilized for common document type associations. Once a document type is assigned to one or more Digital Files the document type appears within an Application Dot Tag. Digital Files can be associated to multiple document types.

In an individual recipe view allows one to see all the information that is associated with a specific recipe. The name of the specific recipe is displayed at the top of the page and the People Profile picture of the chef associated with the recipe is illustrated . If no chef is assigned the user can select the add edit chef to either choose an existing person from the user s People in the Application or add a new person.

The view of various Digital Files within the recipe along with scrolling through the Digital Files using the arrow icons and the ability to share this recipe with others by selecting the sharing icon As the Digital Files are selected on using the film strip on the bottom a larger thumbnail illustrating the Digital File is shown . The recipe view also allows you to choose a chef for the recipe from the people within the user s Application. When a chef is selected the profile picture of the person along with their name as an Application Dot Tag is displayed. For each recipe the user can insert the ingredients directions and comments . Each of these areas can be edited by selecting the edit button . Another contemplated feature allows the user to apply star rankings for the recipe as well as categorize they type of recipe e.g. appetizer entr e etc. . It is further contemplated that the Digital Files within the individual recipe view may also include videos where they can be watched showing the chef making the recipe. It is also contemplated that the recipes will be interactive with external sources e.g. the Food Network so that recipes can be shared or imported with the Application and that visitors to the account will be able to post share comments about the recipe. It is further contemplated that the user can print the recipe using a print icon.

In the Advanced Filters System is illustrated . This feature allows the user to narrow the Digital Files being viewed within the Application Views by searching the user s entire collection of MemoryWeb Tags within the Application and then displaying the filtered information in one of the Application Views. Advanced Filters System can be filtered by such items as key words or plurality of key words event names location people albums star rating file type document type and dates. A user may filter based on more than one criterion at a time. To help users quickly identify Digital Files that may still need to be organized the advanced search filter also allows users to isolate files that have no date no location no people no specific date range and no upload date information or are lacking any other tag. The Advanced Search Filter can be used within many of the views the Application to narrow the set of Digital Files being viewed. For example you can use the Advanced Filter Button to only show the map view of locations a specific person has traveled in their lifetime.

When a user selects the Advanced Filters from almost any Application View the button can be seen in a pop up will appear that allows the user to type in text into the text box . As the user is typing the system sends a request to the User Relationship Table to look up any possible MemoryWeb Tag matches. The system will then produce the request and illustrate the potential matches of the filters to the user . As the user types in another letter the process of sending a request to the User Relationship Table producing results and producing a new set of results is re run. If the user selects one of the suggested MemoryWeb tags and then selects to apply this filter the system will send this request to the User Relationship Table . This portion of the Advanced Filter System is further illustrated in .

If the Advanced Filter System is applied within the Uploads View the system retrieves data for the applied filter s from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data . An example of this output is later illustrated in indicator .

If the Advanced Filter System is applied within the Collections View the system retrieves data for the applied filter s from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data . An example of this output is later illustrated in indicator .

If the Advanced Filter System is applied within the Locations View the system retrieves data for the applied filter s from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data . An example of this output is later illustrated in indicator .

If the Advanced Filter System is applied within the People View the system retrieves data for the applied filter s from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data . An example of this output is later illustrated in indicator .

If the Advanced Filter System is applied within other contemplated views within the Application such as Recipe Family Trees Timespan etc. the system retrieves data for the applied filter s from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data .

If the user decides to add an additional filter the process is repeated when the user selects Advanced Filter while the pre existing filters are still applied. An example of this process is later illustrated in and . If the user selects an Application Dot Tag then the continuous Link of Application Dot Tags System is engaged as illustrated in .

In the process of the Adding the First Application Dot Tag using the Advanced Filter is illustrated. This is a visual depiction of the process that was illustrated in . In Stage 1 the user selects Apply Filters. This takes the user to Stage 2 where the Application generates the Apply Multiple Filters box . The user can then type in the alphanumeric text search criteria within the Advanced Filters text box . In this example the word Smith was typed within the text box. As the alphanumeric text is typed within the text box the application automatically generates the available filters that meet the criteria. In this example the user selects the Application Dot Tag of a person named J C Smith . In Stage 3 Apply is selected and then the application lists the Application Dot Tag of a Person named J C Smith as a current active filter . This filter will then be applied to each Application view that is further illustrated in . If the user wants to clear all the filters they can select clear filters .

In an illustration of the results for a Single Application Dot Tag Filter for each Application view is depicted. If the Advanced Filter is applied in the Uploads Application View the filter of J C Smith is illustrated and only the Digital Files that contain the person J C Smith are illustrated. If the Advanced Filter is applied in the Collections Application View the filter of J C Smith is illustrated and only the Collections that contain the person J C Smith are illustrated. If the Advanced Filter is applied in the People Application View the filter of J C Smith is illustrated and only the person named J C Smith is illustrated.

In an illustration of the results for a Single Application Dot Tag Filter for a date within the Uploads Application View is depicted . If the Advanced Filter is applied using a date filter within the Uploads Application View the filter date of 2013 07 04 is illustrated and only the Digital Files that contain that date are illustrated.

In an illustration of the results for a Single Application Dot Tag Filter in the Location Application View is depicted . Within the Location Application View the Digital Files are displayed within an interactive map Google map shown as an example . The Location View can also provide additional outputs such as a journey route that identifies the specific locations for an event or trip that can be customized by users. In this view individual or groups of Digital Files are illustrated as photo thumbnails see indicators and on the map and the user can select the thumbnail to see all the Digital Files with the same location as seen indicator or the user can use the interactive map and narrow the map view by either using the zoom in zoom out bar on the left or simply selecting the map. Note that the pinned locations include a thumbnail of the Digital File or Collection cover and the number of Digital Files for that location.

If the Advanced Filter is applied in the Locations Application View the filter of J C Smith is illustrated and only the Digital Files that contain the person J C Smith are illustrated with their geographic location on the map. The user can select to clear this filter or see this Advanced Filter with the view of locations as a list . In there are two illustrated on the map and .

In the process of the Adding another Application Dot Tag using the Advanced Filter is illustrated. Continuing on the process that was illustrated in where the first Application Dot Tag filter of Person J C Smith was applied the ability to add a second Application Dot Tag if further illustrated in . As with is a visual depiction of the process that was illustrated in . In Stage 1 the user selects Apply Filters. This takes the user to Stage 2 where the Application generates the Apply Multiple Filters box . The user can then type in the text search criteria for the second Advanced Filter within the Advanced Filters text box. In this example the word Abe was typed within the text box. As the alphanumeric text is typed within the text box the application automatically generates the available filters that meet the criteria. In this example the user selects the Application Dot Tag of a location named Abe Lincoln Elementary School . In Stage 3 the application lists the Application Dot Tags of both the Person named J C Smith as well as the location of Abe Lincoln Elementary School as part of the Current Active Filters. The user then selects Apply to see these filters illustrated in the Application Views. This filter will then be applied to each Application view as previously illustrated in .

In an illustration of the results for Adding Another Application Dot Tag Filter in the Location Application View is depicted . Continuing on the process that was illustrated in in the Application Dot Tag filters of Person J C Smith and Location Abe Lincoln Elementary School are illustrated. There is one overlapping location that contains both filters for a Digital File that is illustrated on the map .

In the Fast Search System is illustrated . Throughout the Application groups or individual Digital Files can be searched quickly using the Fast Search bar that is at the top of each Application View. Once a key word or phrase is entered into this area the user s entire collection of Digital Tags within the Application that includes all the Digital tags are searched for potential matches. This feature allows the user to search their entire collection of MemoryWeb Tags within the Application and then displays the information grouped by people collections locations documents and recipes. The Fast Search System can be searched by such items as key words or plurality of key words event names location people albums star rating file type document type and dates.

When a user selects the Fast Search bar from almost any Application View the user can type in alphanumeric text into the text box . As the user is typing the system sends a request to the User Relationship Table to look up any possible MemoryWeb Tag matches. The system will then produce the request and illustrate the potential matches by category for the user . As the user types in another letter the process of sending a request to the User Relationship Table producing results and producing a new set of results is re run. If the user selects one of the suggested MemoryWeb tags the system will send this request to the User Relationship Table . This process is further illustrated in .

If the user selects a person Fast Search tag the system retrieves data for the person from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in the Person Profile View as illustrated in indicator .

If the user selects a collection Fast Search tag the system retrieves data for the collection from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in the Collection View as illustrated in indicator .

If the user selects a location Fast Search tag the system retrieves data for the location from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in the Location View as illustrated in indicator .

If the user selects a date Fast Search tag the system retrieves data for the date from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data in the Uploads View as illustrated in indicator .

If the Fast Search System is applied within other contemplated views within the Application such as Family Trees Timespan etc. the system retrieves data for the search from the User s Relationship Table and displays the relationship data . As part of the contemplated search process is to also search comments related to a Digital File.

In the process of using the Keyword Fast Search is illustrated. This is a visual depiction of the process that was illustrated in . In Stage 1 the user selects the Fast Search bar at the top of one of the Application Views. This takes the user to Stage 2 where the user can then type in the alphanumeric text search criteria within the Fast Search text box . In this example the word Wrigley was typed within the text box. As the alphanumeric text is typed within the text box the application automatically generates the available MemoryWeb Tag results that meet the criteria. Note how the results are organized by various MemoryWeb Tag categories such as Person Collection Location Recipe and comments. In Stage 3 the user selects one of the results. In this example the user selects the location of Wrigley Field . When the user selects a specific MemoryWeb Tag it takes them to Stage 4 where the information related to that tag is displayed in the corresponding view as discussed within . For the example where the user selected the Location of Wrigley Field the user was taken to the individual locations Application View where the location of Wrigley Field and the corresponding Digital Files are displayed .

In the Share to Third Party Media Provider System is illustrated. This feature allows the user to share Digital Files from MemoryWeb directly to a third party application. The process begins when the user selects to share a Digital File or collection of Digital Files within the MemoryWeb Application . Examples of where the user can select share can be seen in indicator indicator indicator and indicator . Once the request is made the system requests the Digital File and Tag Data Blocks from the User Relationship Table . The system then retrieves the Digital File from the User Relationship Table . At the same time the system will also retrieve the Digital Tags from the Relationship Table . The system will then inject the tags to the corresponding EXIF Tag Data Blocks . The mapping of the EXIF Tag Data Blocks and those of MemoryWeb Data Blocks is illustrated in . Note for any tags that were modified within the MemoryWeb application only the new tag information will be transferred into the EXIF Tag Data Blocks. The system then combines the EXIF Tag Data Blocks and embeds them within the Original Digital File . The application then exports the Digital File with the new EXIF Tag Data Blocks using the Application Export System which then sends the Digital File outside the MemoryWeb Application to the Third Party Media Provider .

In the Third Party Geographical Mapping System is illustrated . When Digital Files are imported into MemoryWeb if there is any GPS data available from the EXIF Tags See indicators and the system will utilize this data and automatically create a MemoryWeb location tag within the Application See indicators and . However if the GPS coordinates were missing from a Digital File when it was imported into the Application See indicators and the user can add the Location which the application will automatically add the associated GPS tags to the Digital File using the Application Digital Tag Organization System see . As locations are associated with a Digital File the Application can interact with a Third Party Geographical Mapping System to pull maps that correspond to the exact location of Digital Files that have a location tag see indicator and indicator . In addition the Application utilizes a world map view to illustrate all the locations that are associated to one or more Digital Files for a user within the Location Application View see indicator .

The Third Party Geographical Mapping System begins when a Location Application Dot Tag is selected the system will send a request to the User Relationship Table . Examples of when Location Application Dot Tags can be selected are illustrated in indicator and indicators and . In if the Locations Application View is selected the system will send a request to the User Relationship Table. The Location Application View can be selected from almost any Application view as illustrated in indicator . When either a single location or the world map view is selected the system will retrieve the data from the User Relationship Table and send a request to the Third Party Geographical Mapping Provider who generates the map request and then sends the information back to the system for the specific location . At the same time the Application Dot Tags and Digital Files associated with the location or map request are retrieved and then sent to the Locations Application view. The system will combine the map information along with the Application Dot Tags and Digital Files and display this information within the Location Application View . Examples of a single Location Application View can be seen in indicator and indicator and an example of a world map view can be seen in indicator .

In the Share to Individual System is illustrated . The Share to an individual person or a group of people starts when a user initiates share of a Digital File or a Collection of Digital Files . Examples of where the user share functions are illustrates are in indicators and indicator indicator and indicator . Next the system requests the Digital File and Tag Data Blocks from the User Relationship Table . They system will retrieve corresponding Digital File or collection of Digital Files from the User Relationship Table.

At the same time the system will also retrieve the Digital Tags of the Digital File from the Relationship Table . The system will then inject the tags to the corresponding EXIF Tag Data Blocks . The mapping of the EXIF Tag Data Blocks and those of MemoryWeb Data Blocks is illustrated in . Note for any tags that were modified within the MemoryWeb application only the new tag information will be transferred into the EXIF Tag Data Blocks. The system then combines the EXIF Tag Data Blocks and embeds them within the Original Digital File . The application then exports the Digital File with the new EXIF Tag Data Blocks using the Application Export System which then sends the Digital File outside the MemoryWeb Application to an Individual or Group of People .

In the Application Export System is illustrated . The Application Export System starts when a user selects the export of a Digital File within the application or has installed the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader Application . An example of where the user can select the export of a Digital file within the Application is indicator . If the user has installed the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader Application the export functionality of the user s entire collection of Digital Files will be downloaded to the User s desired folder on their computer with the Digital Tags embedded within the Digital Files. If neither a user initiated download nor the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader Application is not used then the Application Export is not initiated . For either a user initiated download or one using the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader Application the system requests the Digital File s and Tag Data Blocks from the User Relationship Table . They system will retrieve corresponding Digital File or collection of Digital Files from the User Relationship Table. At the same time the system will also retrieve the Digital Tags of the Digital File from the User Relationship Table . The system will then inject the tags to the corresponding EXIF Tag Data Blocks . The mapping of the EXIF Tag Data Blocks and those of MemoryWeb Data Blocks is illustrated in . Note for any tags that were modified within the MemoryWeb application only the new tag information will be transferred into the EXIF Tag Data Blocks. The system then combines the EXIF Tag Data Blocks and embeds them within the Original Digital File s . The application then exports the Digital File s with the new EXIF Tag Data Blocks to the desired Storage System of the user .

In there are three charts for the Digital File Image File Directory Data Blocks of JPG Photo within Microsoft Before and After MemoryWeb. This Figure is meant to demonstrate how the EXIF Tag Data Blocks for a Digital File in this example a JPG file prior to the use of MemoryWeb Application appear and then how these EXIF Tag Data Blocks are populated with Digital Tags upon export from the MemoryWeb Application.

The first chart illustrates common EXIF Tags Data Blocks and lists certain common the EXIfTool Family 1 Group names that are displayed in the file properties of a JPG file when using Microsoft Windows these are the same EXIF Tag Blocks that were illustrated in indicator . In the second chart the Digital Tags associated with the original Digital File are displayed. In the third chart the updated Digital Tags for the same original Digital File once exported from the MemoryWeb Application is displayed.

In the second chart the original Digital File prior to import to the MemoryWeb Application did not have Digital Tags for data blocks such as Description Rating Description Comments GPS Latitude GPS Longitude . Also in the second chart the Digital Tags for the data blocks of File Folder Path and File Date Created are illustrated.

In the third chart the original Digital File that was exported from the MemoryWeb Application now contains new or modified Digital Tags for certain data blocks. For example a star rating of four out of five stars with the new MW Modified Digital File is now associated with the Description Rating where it was blank with the original file before using the MemoryWeb Application.

Another example is the listing of MemoryWeb Tags within the Description Comments data block as CAPTION Jackson and J C s first day at school PERSON Jackson Smith J C Smith LOCATION NAME Abe Lincoln Elementary School COLLECTION First Day of School COLLECTION Jackson and J C Photos 2013 DATE Aug. 28 2013. All of these Digital Tags are now associated with the Description Comments where it was blank with the original file before using the MemoryWeb Application.

Also updated in the MW Modified Digital File are the GPS Latitude and GPS Longitude as Digital Tags that were assigned in the MemoryWeb Application using the location feature with the Application Digital Tag Organizer System. These tags now replace the blank tags indicators and that were in the original file before using the MemoryWeb Application.

A final example is how the date was modified in the MemoryWeb Application where a new date of Aug. 28 2013 was assigned to the Digital File. This replaced the old date that was originally tagged with a date of Nov. 1 2013 . In a typical Digital File only the date and perhaps the GPS location if taken with certain newer photo device is pre populated in a Digital File. For the example in the Digital File may have been created or scanned on Nov. 1 2013 but with the MemoryWeb Application Digital Tag Organizer System the user was able to correctly assign the date the photo was taken and now this date is always part of the Digital File within the MemoryWeb Application but also when the Digital File is exported from MemoryWeb.

A benefit of the Export System is that users can export a single Digital File or their entire set of Digital Files using the MW Automatic Uploader Downloader Application with all the updated Digital Tags from the MemoryWeb Application embedded within the Digital File s . This feature is unique as it will allow the users to back up their files to another source e.g. external computer hard drive or to transport it to another venue e.g. another website that is used for viewing and or sharing Digital Files such as a social media website where it can be viewed with these Digital Tag attributes. This export feature can provide users with the advantage of never losing key data that was stored simply because the user chooses to move its Digital Files to a new digital system.

The application also contemplates the use of a Family Tree Application View where the individual people that have been created within the Application can be displayed with family relationships. This view can illustrate interactive family trees where one can see the family tree of an individual or family. Any family relationships created in the user s personal profile are already pre populated by the Application for the Family Tree View. If a user selects on an individual within the family tree it will take them to the people profile Application View of that person. Family Trees can quickly be viewed with the family tree drop down sort feature. As with other areas within the Application the family tree view can be narrowed down using an Advanced Filters System. For matching family members the system will have drag drop functionality to make new associations to a family tree. It is also contemplated that various family tree views could be displayed e.g. pedigree chart fan chart directs descendants chart etc. . In addition it is contemplated that family tree relationships from either data files e.g. GEDCOM files or other sources e.g. Family Search database would either be imported into the user s versions of the Application or utilize these sources in associating the family tree information.

Another Application View that is contemplated is Timespan or Timeline. The Timeline Application View will have an interactive timeline to display the dates within the Digital Files of the Application for a user. The timeline view acts as an interactive filter or funnel of Digital Files whereas when the user starts to define the parameters of dates towards the bottom the information above it is filtered to display the major groups of Digital Files that meets the selected date range criteria in various formats until you are able to view an individual Digital File. This funnel approach is designed to allow the user to appreciate the vast amount of data that can be associated with a date range but then allow them to filter the information with the user s desired criteria. This will be a very useful tool when users want to see the growth and progress of an individual as well as memorialize a lifetime of a friend or family member.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and have herein been described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

