---

title: Wireless service platforms
abstract: Embodiments of the disclosed invention include an apparatus, method, and computer program product for performing automated events using a multi-wireless detection device service platform. For example, in one embodiment, a method for performing automated events in an office environment is disclosed. The method may include logging, by the office management system, a user onto a network data processing system located within an office within the office environment using an account associated with the user in response to receiving a notification message from a wireless detection device. In one embodiment, the communication between the wireless detection device and the office management system to log the user onto the network data processing system located within the office is performed in response to a user-initiated request that indicates that the wireless device is within the office.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148759&OS=09148759&RS=09148759
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 09148759
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140519
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 872 465 filed Apr. 29 2013 and entitled Wireless Service Platforms which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 499 396 Now U.S. Pat. No. 8 447 277 filed Jul. 8 2009 and entitled Multi Femto Cell Service Platforms both of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed invention is related to the field of cellular communication devices and in particular to a femto cell. A femto cell is a small portable low power mobile phone base station that connects to a mobile operator s network using standard broadband DSL or Cable service for improving mobile coverage in areas with obstructed cellular signals such as the inside of a house or an office building. In addition femto cells may provide mobile phone coverage for both voice and data at a lower cost than that of a mobile operator s macro network.

Embodiments of the disclosed invention include a system method and computer program product for performing automated events using a multi wireless detection device service platform. For instance in one embodiment a method is disclosed for performing a user specified action the method comprising registering with a first wireless detection device an identifier associated with a wireless device the first wireless detection device located at a first location. The method monitors using the first wireless detection device a wireless signal associated with the wireless device. In response to the first wireless detection device detecting the wireless signal associated with the wireless device the method monitors for an absence of the wireless signal associated with the wireless device. In response to the first wireless detection device detecting the absence of the wireless signal associated with the wireless device the method transmits a notification to a second wireless detection device indicating that the wireless device is no longer detected by the first wireless detection device the second wireless detection device being located at a second location. The method monitors for a second notification from the second wireless detection device indicating that the second wireless detection device has detected the wireless signal associated with the wireless device. In one embodiment the method performs the user specified action in response to not receiving the second notification from the second wireless detection device within a specified time.

In accordance with another embodiment a method is disclosed for performing automated events in an office environment. In one embodiment the method may be executed by an office management system. The method comprises registering with the office management system a wireless device corresponding to a user. The method receives a notification message from a wireless detection device located within an office of the office environment the notification message indicating the presence of the wireless device within the office. In one embodiment the method logs the user onto a network data processing system located within the office using an account associated with the user in response to receiving the notification message from the wireless detection device.

Another disclosed embodiment includes a method for performing automated events in an office environment that includes registering with an office management system a wireless device corresponding to a user. The method includes receiving at the office management system a notification message from a wireless detection device located within an office environment that indicates the presence of the wireless device within the office environment. The method also comprises logging by the office management system the user onto a network data processing system located within an office within the office environment using an account associated with the user in response to receiving the notification message from the wireless detection device. In one embodiment the communication between the wireless detection device and the office management system to log the user onto the network data processing system located within the office is performed in response to a user initiated request that indicates that the wireless device is within the office. In certain embodiments the user initiated request may indicated by the wireless detection device receiving a user entered key sequence from the wireless device to indicate that the wireless device is within the office.

The above embodiments and other embodiments are further described in the detailed description section of the present application.

The disclosed embodiments and advantages thereof are best understood by referring to of the drawings like numerals being used for like and corresponding parts of the various drawings. Other features and advantages of the disclosed embodiments will be or will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional features and advantages be included within the scope of the disclosed embodiments. Further the illustrated figures are only exemplary and not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environment architecture design or process in which different embodiments may be implemented.

Additionally in certain embodiments femto cell and femto cell may execute instruction code such as but not limited to computer executable instructions associated with a femto cell application . In one embodiment femto cell application includes instructions for enabling a user to configure actions and parameters associated with the detection and or absence of a particular cellular device. For instance in one embodiment a user may connect a computer such as a laptop device to femto cell for enabling a user to register an identifier e.g. a mobile identification number MIN and or an electronic serial number ESN associated with a cellular device that the user wants to be monitored. In a preferred embodiment laptop device may connect to femto cell using any type of communication means including but not limited to a universal serial bus USB cable connection an Ethernet cable connection and or via a wireless connection. In one embodiment femto cell automatically executes instructions associated with femto cell application for displaying a user interface on laptop device for enabling a user to configure femto cell in response to establishing a connection with laptop device . In another embodiment a user may manually initiate the execution of femto cell application for displaying a user interface on laptop device . The user interface may be a stand alone window and or may be displayed in a Web browser application.

As will be further described a user may configure femto cell to communicate with one or more femto cells such as but not limited to femto cell over network to create a network of femto cells that can communicate information to each other. For instance in one embodiment a user may utilize the network of femto cells to track the location of an individual associated with a particular cellular device. For example a user may register with femto cell and femto cell a phone number corresponding to a cellular device of a particular person for determining if and when the particular person is located at location and or location . In addition in some embodiments femto cell and or femto cell may be configured to notify a user if a particular person leaves a location e.g. location and does not arrive at a second location e.g. location within an expected period of time. For instance in one embodiment femto cell may notify femto cell that a cellular device has left the signal range of femto cell and await a response from femto cell indicating that cellular device has arrived at location i.e. femto cell detects the presence of a cellular signal associated with cellular device . In one embodiment if femto cell does not receive the response from femto cell indicating that cellular device has arrived at location within a specified period of time femto cell performs a user specified action such as but not limited to notifying a user e.g. by email and or SMS text message that the particular person associated with cellular device did not arrive at location within the specified time. For example this embodiment may be utilized to ensure that a child that walks from home to school and or vice versa arrives at the second location within an expected time. In some embodiments femto cell may be configured to perform a user specified action even if the response is received within a specified time e.g. to simply notify a parent that the child arrived safely .

As referenced herein network may include one or more data networks such as but not limited to the Internet for routing communications between one or more communication devices and or data processing systems. The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that interchange data using the standardized Internet Protocol Suite TCP IP . In some embodiments network may include other types of data networks such as but not limited to an intranet a private local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and a wireless local area network WLAN . In addition in some embodiments network may communicate with one or more cellular networks and or a landline telephone networks for routing data between femto cell and other network devices such as but not limited to a SMS server and an email server . For example in some embodiments network may communicate with one or more GSM networks CDMA networks Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE networks PSTN networks and 3G 4G networks for facilitating data communications between the network devices systems.

Processing unit may comprise one or more single or multi core processors including but not limited to a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor and or a digital signal processor for executing computer instructions. In one embodiment memory is volatile memory. Volatile memory is memory that requires power to maintain stored information. For example in some embodiments memory may be random access memory RAM . Random access memory stores currently executing instructions and or other data utilized by an operating system software application and or other components of femto cell . For instance as will be further described in one embodiment computer executable instructions may include instructions for performing a user specified action in response to detecting the cellular signal associated with a particular cellular device.

Additionally in a preferred embodiment femto cell includes a non volatile data storage device such as but not limited to data storage unit . Data storage unit may include one or more data storage units. For example in one embodiment data storage unit may be one or more hard disk drives. In other embodiments data storage unit may be flash memory such as but not limited to an xD extreme Digital card SD Secure Digital card or mini SD card. In some embodiments data storage unit may be removable and or an interchangeable with other devices.

In the depicted embodiment data storage unit includes a femto cell application . In one embodiment femto cell application includes computer executable instruction code for enabling a user to configure actions and parameters associated with monitoring of one or more cellular devices using a network of femto cells. For instance in one embodiment femto cell application may include a cell phone registration module a femto cell registration module a user configurable actions module and a user interface module . For example cell phone registration module may include computer executable instructions for receiving an identifier such as but not limited to a mobile identification number MIN international mobile equipment identity IMEI and or an electronic serial number ESN associated with a cellular device that a user wants to be monitored. Additionally femto cell registration module may include computer executable instructions for receiving an identifier such as IP address and a network address and or other parameters associated with one or more femto cells in which femto cell may communicate with. In addition user configurable actions module may include computer executable instructions for enabling a user to configure an action to be performed in response to one or more conditions associated with a monitored cellular device being met. Lastly user interface module may include computer executable instructions for generating a user interface for enabling a user to perform the above configurations associated with femto cell .

In one embodiment femto cell detects cellular signals using a transceiver . In one embodiment transceiver may include one or more radio frequency RF transceivers that are operable to communicate and or detect cellular signals on a plurality of cellular frequencies. For instance in some embodiments femto cell may include one or more transceivers that are operable to communicate cellular signals on a plurality of frequency ranges commonly associated with cellular service providers such as but not limited to 400 850 900 1800 and 1900 MHz frequency bands. In addition in some embodiments femto cell may support a plurality of cellular network technologies including but not limited to Advanced Mobile Phone Service AMPS Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobil communication GSM and Personal Communications Services PCS .

Additionally in one embodiment femto cell may include a cellular identification module for identify the MIN i.e. phone number IMEI and or ESN associated with a detected cellular signal. For example femto cell may be configured to communicate on a control channel with cellular devices that are within signal range of femto cell to determine the mobile identification number cellular phone number associated with a detected mobile device similar to the way a macro cellular tower identifies cellular devices within its cellular coverage area. A control channel is a logic channel carrying network information rather than the actual voice or data messages transmitted over the network for enabling cellular devices to identify themselves and their location to the cellular networks.

Additionally in some embodiments transceiver may support wireless data communication standards such as but not limited to the Wireless Application Protocol WAP and or Wi Fi standard for enabling wireless data communication with one or more wireless Internet accessible devices such as but not limited to laptop device . For instance in one embodiment a user may utilize laptop device to wirelessly configure femto cell . Additionally in some embodiments femto cell may include one or more input output ports e.g. a USB port for enabling a user to physically connect laptop to femto cell for enabling a user to configure femto cell .

Femto cell communicates to other femto cells and or other network devices systems via network interface . In some embodiments network interface may be a network interface card such as but not limited to a modem an Ethernet card and or a wireless network interface card for connecting femto cell to network .

With reference now to an embodiment of a user interface in accordance with certain embodiments of the invention is presented. In one embodiment user interface may be generated by computer executable instructions executed by a femto cell such as but not limited to femto cell and femto cell . In other embodiments user interface may be generated by computer executable instructions executed by a network data processing system such as but not limited to server .

In the depicted embodiment user interface includes an input box for registering a cellular device. For example in one embodiment a user may enter a mobile identification number cellular phone number associated with the cellular device that the user wants monitored. In addition user interface may include a femto cell identifier input box for enabling a user to register an identifier such as an IP address and or network address associated with a femto cell. In some embodiments user interface may include a femto cell nickname input box for enabling a user to provide a nickname alias for a particular femto cell. For instance a user may have femto cells located at a workplace a child s school location a relative s house a child s friend s house and or any other location.

User interface may also include a feature for enabling a user to specify an action to be performed if the registered cellular device is detected by a femto cell. For instance in one embodiment if a femto cell detects the cellular signal associated with a registered cellular device a user may specify that a notification be sent to one or more femto cells selected from femto cell list . As will be further described the communication between the femto cells may enable location tracking of the cellular device. Other actions may include sending a message to a user specified e mail address and or a user specified cellular device . Additionally in some embodiments a user may specify that the message be sent only if the registered cellular device is detected after a user specified time . For example this option may be utilized to inform a parent that his teenage child has not left for school when he should have left already and or may be utilized to inform a parent if a child s friend is over past a certain time.

Similarly in one embodiment user interface may include one or more user configurable options for configuring a femto cell to perform one or more actions in response to detecting the absence of a registered cellular device. For instance in one embodiment a spouse may be automatically notified when the other spouse leaves a workplace for the day. In some embodiments an employer may track the amount of time an employee may be away from a workstation and or the time of day an employee leaves.

With reference now to an embodiment of a process for performing a user specified action is presented in accordance with certain embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment process may be executed by a femto cell such as but not limited to femto cell and femto cell . In another embodiment process may be executed by a network data processing system such as but not limited to server . Process may be utilized to track the location of a cellular device using one or more femto cells.

For example in the depicted embodiment process begins at step by registering a cellular device with a femto cell. At step the process monitors for a cellular signal associated with the registered cellular device. The process determines at step whether the presence of the registered cellular device is detected by a femto cell. In some embodiments in response to detecting the presence of the registered cellular device at step process may at step be configured to determine whether the presence of the cellular device is detected after a user specified time. In these embodiments if the process determines that the registered cellular device is detected after a user specified time the process at step may perform a user specified action.

Alternatively in another embodiment if the process at step detects the presence of the cellular device the process at step may monitor for the absence of the cellular signal associated with the registered cellular device. At step the process determines whether the absence of the registered cellular device is detected i.e. whether the cellular signal associated with the registered cellular device is still within range of the femto cell . In one embodiment if the process at step determines that the cellular device is no longer within signal range of the femto cell the process at step sends a notification to a second femto cell that the registered cellular device has left the location of the first femto cell. In one embodiment the notification includes an identifier associated with the registered cellular device.

In addition in some embodiments the location associated with the second femto cell may dynamically change based on a time of day that the first femto cell detects the absence of the cellular signal associated with the cellular device. For instance if the absence of the cellular signal associated with the cellular device is detected early in the morning the process may monitor a second femto cell located at a school location. On the other hand if the absence of the cellular signal associated with the cellular device is detected after school hours the process may monitor a second femto cell located at a neighbor s house.

In one embodiment the process at step monitors for a return notification from the second femto cell indicating that the second femto cell has detected the cellular signal associated with the registered cellular device. At step the process determines whether the return notification is received within a user specified time. In one embodiment if the process receives the return notification within the user specified time the process at step may perform a user specified action with process terminating thereafter. Additionally in one embodiment if the process does not receive the return notification within the user specified time the process at step may perform a second user specified action with process terminating thereafter.

With reference now to an embodiment of an office network environment is presented in which certain illustrative embodiments may be implemented. In the depicted embodiment one or more femto cells such as but not limited to femto cells and communicate data to an office management system . In one embodiment femto cells and are respectively located in individual offices rooms and of an office environment such as office environment . An office environment is defined as a place of business. In accordance with one embodiment femto cells and are configured to automatically detect cellular signals within the respective boundaries of each individual offices rooms. Offices rooms and may be individual offices conference rooms and or a designated area of office environment .

In certain embodiments one or more cellular devices such as but not limited to cellular devices and are pre registered with office management system . In one embodiment the pre registration process includes associating each cellular device with a particular user. For instance in some embodiments office management may communicate with web server for receiving the pre registration information from a user office administrator via a website.

In other embodiments office management system may identify cellular devices and on the fly. For example in one embodiment office management system utilizes identifying information such as but not limited to a MIN or an IMEI associated with a cellular device contain in signals transmitted by the cellular device over a control channel frequency to identify a cellular device and or a user associated with the cellular device. In some embodiments process management system may communicate with a calling names database that contains subscriber names associated with cellular device phone numbers for identifying a user associated with a MIN of a detected cellular device.

In accordance with an embodiment office management system receives notifications from femto cells and or . The notifications notify office management system that the transmitting femto cell has detected the cellular signals associated with one of the cellular devices. For example femto cells and or may execute instructions associated with a femto cell application for identifying a cellular device and or for identifying a user associated with an identified cellular device. In these embodiments femto cells and or may transmit the username information to office management system . In other embodiments femto cells and may simply forward detected cellular signal information to office management for enabling office management to identify a cellular device and a user associated with the cellular device. Additionally in some embodiments femto cells and or may be configured to only forward and or identify information associated with a cellular device if a user initiates a specified key sequence on a cellular device within range of a femto cell. For example femto cells and or may be configured to identify a 45 call as a user initiated request to communicate with office management system .

In one embodiment in response to identifying a cellular device and a user associated with the cellular device office management system retrieves account information associated with the identified user and uses the account information to log the user onto a network data processing system e.g. data processing system that is located in the office room associated with the location of the femto cell e.g. femto cell that detects the signal of the cellular device. Similarly in some embodiments office management system may log a user onto a telephone system e.g. telephone located within the office room associated with the location of the detecting femto cell.

In some embodiments prior to logging the identified user onto a network data processing system that is located within the office room associated with the transmitting femto cell office management system may determine whether another user is currently log on to the network data processing system. In one embodiment if office management system determines that another user is currently log onto the network data processing system located within the particular office room office management system may communicate with SMS server and or e mail server for sending a message to the cellular device corresponding to the identified user to indicate that the network data processing system within the office is currently in use by a second user.

In addition in some embodiments office management system may continue to monitor for the presence of the identified cellular device within the particular office and responsive to a determination that the cellular device is no longer detected by the femto cell located within the particular office office management system may be configured to automatically log the user out of the network data processing system and or a telephone system located within the particular office. Accordingly certain of the disclosed embodiments provide convenience and additional network security by automatically logging a user on and off a network data processing system and or telephone system based on the presence of a user as determined by the presence of a cellular device associated with the user.

In one embodiment Web portal module may include computer executable instructions for communicating with a Web server that hosts a website that enables a user to configure one or more actions and or parameters associated with office management system . For instance an office administrator may access a website to register one or more cellular devices associated with office personnel and for configuring the actions to be performed in response to the detection and or absence of each registered cellular device. Web portal module provides the application programming interface API i.e. a set of functions procedures methods or classes which office management system utilizes to retrieve receive user configuration parameters from the Web server.

In some embodiments femto cell monitoring module may include computer executable instructions such as but not limited to communication standards and protocols for establishing and maintaining communication with one or more femto cells located within an office environment. Additionally in one embodiment femto cell monitoring module may utilize information contained in femto cell database for identifying a location within an office environment of a transmitting monitored femto cell. For example in one embodiment femto cell monitoring module may compare an IP address and or a network address associated with a transmitting monitored femto cell with a data table that contains a corresponding location associated with the IP address and or network address of the femto cell. In addition in some embodiments femto cell monitoring module may include computer executable instructions for identifying a cellular device and determining a corresponding user associated with the identified cellular device.

Network systems module may include computer executable instructions for automatically logging a user on and or off of a network data processing system located within an office room of an office environment. For instance in one embodiment in response to identifying a user corresponding to a detected cellular device network systems module retrieves the user account information profile from user database for automatically logging a user onto a network data processing system located within an office room of the office environment in which the transmitting femto cell is located. Similarly telephone systems module may include computer executable instructions for automatically logging a user on and or off of a telephone system located within the office room in which the transmitting femto cell is located.

In some embodiments office directory module may include computer executable instructions for updating an office directory to indicate that the user is presently located at the office room of the office environment. For instance if a user moves from his normal office to a conference room other office personnel are able to quickly locate the user using the office directory. In addition in an office environment such as but not limited to a law firm the office directory may be updated dynamically with attorneys visiting from other office locations. Further certain of the disclosed embodiments may be utilized in an office environment in which there are no assigned offices and any user may utilize any office that is available.

However in one embodiment if the process determines that the identified network data processing system is available for use the process retrieves the user account information associated with the identified user and logs the user onto the network data processing system. In some embodiments the process at step may also log a user onto a telephone system located within the same office room. The process at step may update an office directory to indicate the present location of the user.

Additionally in some embodiments the process may continue to monitor communications from the femto cells for identifying when a registered cellular device leaves the signal range of a femto cell. For example if the process at step receives an absence notification from a femto cell that indicates that a previously detected cellular device has left the signal range of the femto cell the process at step may automatically log the user off of the network data processing system located within the office room. Similarly the process at step may log the user off of the telephone system located within the office room in response to receiving an absence notification a femto cell.

Accordingly the above disclosure enables a system and method for performing automated events using a multi femto cell service platform. For example in one embodiment one or more femto cells may communicate directly with each other in a decentralized network for performing user specified actions based on the detection of a cellular device. In other embodiments the multi femto cell platform may include a central server such as but not limited to network server for controlling managing and monitoring the plurality of femto cells. Additionally in some embodiments a multi femto cell platform may be utilized in an office environment to perform automated events within the office environment such as but not limited to automatically logging a user on and off of a network device based on the presence of a cellular device corresponding to the user.

The above disclosure describes certain embodiments of the claimed invention and is not intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention. In addition the disclosed embodiments are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations sequence diagrams and or block diagrams. Each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by computer program instructions hardware components and or any combination thereof. In addition the flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the claimed invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which may include one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures and or may be omitted. In addition two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

Additionally computer program instructions for executing the disclosed embodiments may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the data processing system to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the data processing system provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The terminology used herein is for describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprise and or comprising when used in this specification and or the claims specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The disclosed embodiments were chosen to explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

