---

title: Establishing a direct connection between two devices
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes, by a first computing device associated with a first user, receiving a connection request from a second computing device associated with a second user. The method also includes confirming that the connection request is associated with the second user and sending to the second computing device an acceptance of the connection request in response to confirming that the connection request is associated with the second user. The method further includes receiving from the second computing device an acknowledgement of the acceptance and, in response to the acknowledgement, allowing information to be exchanged between the first and second computing devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491148&OS=09491148&RS=09491148
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09491148
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140718
---
A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may send over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a GPS receiver compass gyroscope or accelerometer. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area network WLAN or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

In particular embodiments a direct connection may be established between two devices without the need for a network connection. The direct connection may be a wireless connection that uses an existing peer to peer style connection protocol e.g. WI FI DIRECT . A direct connection between two devices may be used for exchanging information such as for example contact information files applications social networking information or any other suitable information.

In particular embodiments a first and second user who have not previously established a connection e.g. a social network connection may establish a direct connection between their devices e.g. their smartphones or tablets . For example the second user s device may broadcast a connection request that includes a nickname alias first name image or user identifier. The first user s device may receive the connection request and after confirming that the connection request is authentic the first user may accept the connection request. In particular embodiments confirming that the connection request is authentic may include confirming that the connection request is associated with the second user. For example the first and second users may be located in close physical proximity to one another and the first user may show their device display to the second user. The second user may indicate to the first user that the connection request displayed on the first user s device is authentic. The first user may then tap on an image or icon displayed on the first user s device and the first user s device may send back an acceptance of connection request to the second user s device. The first user s device may then receive an acknowledgement of acceptance from the second user s device at which point information may be exchanged between the two devices using a direct connection.

In particular embodiments a first and second user may have previously established a connection e.g. a social network connection through a social networking system and the social networking system may have previously provided to their devices public or private keys or a code token or other means for verifying identify . In this case the two devices can exchange information e.g. connection request connection request acceptance or acknowledgement of acceptance using a public key encryption protocol to confirm or authenticate the users or their devices. As an example and not by way of limitation authenticating the connection request e.g. confirming that the connection request received from the second device is associated with the second user may include the first device decrypting information received from the second device or the first device sending encrypted information to the second device. In particular embodiments establishing a direct connection between two devices may include a one way or a two way authentication protocol. A one way authentication protocol may include the first device sending encrypted information to the second device and the second device decrypting the encrypted information. A two way authentication protocol may include each device sending encrypted information to the other device and each device decrypting information received from the other device.

The embodiments disclosed above are only examples and the scope of this disclosure is not limited to them. Particular embodiments may include all some or none of the components elements features functions operations or steps of the embodiments disclosed above.

In particular embodiments devices and may each include any suitable device that has at least one processor and is configured for at least one mode of wireless connection such as for example cellular WI FI WI FI DIRECT BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH LOW ENERGY BLE near field communication NFC or any other suitable wireless connection type or protocol. In particular embodiments device or device may be a mobile computing device such as for example a smartphone tablet computer laptop computer or any other suitable computing device. In particular embodiments device or may be referred to as a computing device. In particular embodiments devices and may be able to connect to a network e.g. a local private network or a network connected to the Internet or a social networking system. Devices and may also be able to communicate directly with each other using a direct connection e.g. using WI FI DIRECT without going through a network. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular devices configured for particular modes of wireless connection this disclosure contemplates any suitable devices configured for any suitable modes of wireless connection.

In particular embodiments sending or receiving information directly or a direct connection between two devices may refer to information sent from one device directly to another device without being relayed retransmitted or passed through an intermediate device e.g. a router a third device a network or part of a network . As an example and not by way of limitation devices and may exchange initial messages associated with establishing a direct connection e.g. connection request connection request acceptance or acknowledgement using a direct peer to peer style connection e.g. WI FI DIRECT . Additionally after a direct connection between the two devices is established devices and may exchange information using the direct connection. In particular embodiments information exchanged directly between devices and may be performed without use of a network connection for either device. As an example and not by way of limitation devices and may not have access to or may not be connected to a network and exchanging information between devices and may involve a direct connection between the two devices such that a network connection is not necessary. As another example and not by way of limitation device or device may be connected to a network e.g. through a local wireless access point and information exchanged between devices and may be performed with a direct connection that is not associated with the network. In particular embodiments sending information by a direct connection may include broadcasting the information so that one or more suitable devices located near the broadcasting device may be able to receive or access the information. In particular embodiments sending information by a direct connection may include sending information in an encrypted format so that although one or more devices may be able to receive the encrypted information the information may only be decrypted by an intended recipient device. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular direct connections between particular devices this disclosure contemplates any suitable direct connections between any suitable devices.

In particular embodiments a first computing device associated with a first user may receive a connection request from a second computing device associated with a second user. In particular embodiments the first computing device may receive the connection request directly from the second computing device. As illustrated in device which may be associated with a first user may receive connection request directly from device which may be associated with a second user . In particular embodiments connection request may be broadcast by device and received or accessed by one or more suitable devices including device that are located near device . In particular embodiments connection request may indicate that the second user would like to establish a direct connection between device and another user s device e.g. device .

In particular embodiments connection request may include a nickname a name an image a user identifier userid such as for example the second user s social network userid an alias a public key associated with the second user or any other suitable information associated with the second user. As an example and not by way of limitation connection request may include the second user s nickname and an image selected by the second user and upon receiving connection request device may display the nickname and image. In particular embodiments connection request may include an invitation to establish a social network connection. As an example and not by way of limitation the second user may configure their device to broadcast connection request which includes the second user s name and an invitation to establish a social network connection e.g. establish a friend relationship with the second user. In particular embodiments a second user may not be comfortable with broadcasting their identity and so connection request may include encrypted information or information related to the second user e.g. nickname image or alias but not directly identifying the second user allowing the second user to remain anonymous while broadcasting connection request . In particular embodiments a user with a lower security setting may choose to include various information in connection request such as for example a public key a uniform resource identifier URI a social network userid a phone number an email address or a document. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular connection requests that include particular information this disclosure contemplates any suitable connection requests that include any suitable information.

In particular embodiments prior to receiving connection request from device device may publish or broadcast initial connection information which may include a nickname a name an image a user identifier userid an alias a public key associated with the first user or any other suitable information associated with the first user. In particular embodiments the initial connection information may be broadcast by device and received or accessed by one or more suitable devices including device that are located near device . In particular embodiments the initial information broadcast by device may be received by device and device may display an entry that includes some or all of the initial information. As an example and not by way of limitation the initial information may include the first user s nickname and an image selected by the first user and upon receiving the initial information device may display the nickname and image. The second user may select the entry displayed on device and device may then send connection request . In particular embodiments prior to sending connection request device or the second user may confirm that the initial connection information received by device is authentic or is associated with the first user.

In particular embodiments device may confirm that connection request is associated with the second user. In particular embodiments confirming that connection request is authentic or associated with the second user may be part of a security protocol to prevent a man in the middle attack by a malicious third party. Authenticating connection request may prevent a malicious third party user from eavesdropping on a connection between device and device . In particular embodiments confirming that connection request is associated with the second user may involve a physical world authentication process described below a device to device authentication process also described below both physical world and device to device authentication processes or any other suitable authentication process or suitable combination of authentication processes.

In particular embodiments confirming that connection request is associated with the second user may include device receiving an input from the first user. The input may indicate that the first user received from the second user a verbal visual or physical indication that connection request received by device is authentic. The input may also indicate that the first user has agreed to accept the request to establish a direct connection between devices and . As an example and not by way of limitation device may receive connection request that includes the second user s nickname and an image and an application running on device may indicate that connection request has been received. Indicating that connection request has been received may include displaying the received nickname or image on device . In particular embodiments the first and second users may be located in close physical proximity to one another e.g. within 1 foot 10 feet or within any suitable distance of each other . The first user may show the information e.g. nickname icon message or image displayed on device to the second user and the second user may confirm that the displayed information is authentic and is associated with connection request sent by the second user s device. The second user upon recognizing the displayed nickname or image may give a verbal e.g. the second user may say Yes or OK visual e.g. the second user may nod smile wave or give a thumbs up hand gesture or other suitable physical gesture indicating to the first user that connection request is authentic and was sent by device . In particular embodiments the input received by device from the first user may include a manual input where the first user taps clicks or selects a message icon or image displayed on a display of device e.g. the first user taps on the image displayed on device . In particular embodiments if the second user does not recognize the nickname or image or if the second user did not send a connection request then the second user may indicate to the first user that connection request is not authentic and the first user may cancel terminate or decline the connection request. In particular embodiments such an example process as described above for confirming that connection request is associated with the second user may be referred to as physical world authentication where two people are located in close physical proximity and each person may observe the other person s device display.

In particular embodiments such an example physical world authentication process may be applied to two users e.g. the first user and the second user regardless of whether the two users have previously established a connection e.g. a social network connection through a social network . In particular embodiments a physical world authentication process may involve a first and second user or their respective devices and the authentication process may not involve a third party. As an example and not by way of limitation the first and second users may not have established a connection e.g. a social network connection previously and a physical world authentication process may be limited to an interaction between the first and second users and their respective devices. As another example and not by way of limitation a third party e.g. a social networking system may have previously issued a code token or public private encryption keys to device or prior to initiation of a direct connection between the two devices but while establishing a direct connection between the two devices the third party may not be connected to either device or no information may be exchanged between the third party and either device. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular processes for confirming that a particular connection request is associated with a particular user this disclosure contemplates any suitable processes for confirming that any suitable connection request is associated with any suitable user.

In particular embodiments in response to confirming that connection request is associated with the second user device may send an acceptance of the connection request to device . In particular embodiments device may send an acceptance of the connection request directly to device . As illustrated in device may send acceptance of connection request or connection request acceptance directly to device . As an example and not by way of limitation device may receive an input from the first user indicating that the first user received from the second user an indication that connection request is authentic and device may then send connection request acceptance directly to device . In particular embodiments connection request acceptance may be in the form of a broadcast message from device that may be received or accessed by one or more suitable devices including device that are located near device . Connection request acceptance may include an indication that device or the first user has accepted connection request from the second user and would like to establish a direct connection between device and device . In particular embodiments connection request acceptance may include a nickname a name an image a userid e.g. the first user s social networking userid an alias a public key associated with the first user or any other suitable information associated with the first user.

In particular embodiments and as illustrated in device may receive from device an acknowledgement of the acceptance . In particular embodiments device may receive acknowledgement of acceptance directly from device . Acknowledgement of acceptance may be sent by device in response to receiving connection request acceptance from device . In particular embodiments acknowledgement of acceptance may be in the form of information broadcast by device that may be received or accessed by one or more suitable devices including device that are located near device . Acknowledgement of acceptance may include an indication that device or the second user has acknowledged connection request acceptance and wishes to proceed with establishing a direct connection between device and device .

In particular embodiments in response to connection request acceptance received from device device may confirm that connection request acceptance is associated with the first user prior to sending acknowledgement of acceptance to device . In particular embodiments such an example process for confirming that connection request acceptance is associated with the first user may include physical world authentication as described above. In particular embodiments confirming that connection request acceptance is associated with the first user may include device receiving an input from the second user. The input may indicate that the second user received from the first user a verbal visual or physical indication that connection request acceptance is authentic. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular information sent or received by particular devices as part of particular authentication processes this disclosure contemplates any suitable information sent or received by any suitable devices as part of any suitable authentication processes.

In particular embodiments prior to device or sending sensitive or personal information to the other device through a direct connection device and device may engage in a device to device authentication process that involves sending or receiving encrypted information. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of connection request connection request acceptance or acknowledgement of acceptance may be encrypted. For example connection request broadcast by device may include a social networking identifier for the second user that is encrypted with the second user s private key or with another user s public key. Similarly device may include in connection request acceptance information that is encrypted with the first user s private key or with the second user s public key. In particular embodiments a device to device authentication process may ensure that initial messages exchanged between device and e.g. connection request connection request acceptance or acknowledgement of acceptance are authentic and associated with the appropriate first or second user. In particular embodiments a security protocol for establishing a direct connection between two devices may include a physical world authentication a device to device authentication or both a physical world authentication and a device to device authentication.

In particular embodiments confirming that connection request is associated with the second user may include a device to device authentication process where device or device sends a message that includes an encrypted portion. As an example and not by way of limitation confirming that connection request is associated with the second user may include device comparing a portion of connection request with a previously received code or token e.g. a token received from a social networking system . A code or token may include unique private or personal information that enables a device to authenticate another device. As another example and not by way of limitation connection request may include an encrypted nickname encrypted first name encrypted userid associated with the second user encrypted alias encrypted random number generated by device or any other suitable encrypted information associated with the second user. Similarly in particular embodiments confirming that connection request acceptance is associated with the first user may involve a device to device authentication process where device or device sends a message that includes an encrypted portion. As an example and not by way of limitation connection request acceptance may include an encrypted nickname encrypted first name encrypted userid associated with the first user encrypted alias encrypted random number generated by device or any other suitable encrypted information associated with the first user. Although this disclosure describes particular messages having particular encrypted portions this disclosure contemplates any suitable messages having any suitable encrypted portions.

In particular embodiments the first and second users may have previously established a social network connection on a social network. In particular embodiments as part of establishing a social network connection device and device may have previously received from the social networking system public or private keys associated with the first or second user or some other unique code or token that may be used to identify the first or second user. In particular embodiments a key e.g. a public key or a private key may refer to an encryption key used to encrypt information prior to sending the information or a decryption key used to decrypt information that is encrypted. In particular embodiments devices and may exchange information using a public key encryption protocol. In particular embodiments public and private keys associated with a particular user may be referred to as a public private key pair and the public and private keys may be digitally signed by the social networking system to ensure validity of the keys. As an example and not by way of limitation device may have previously received from a social networking system a public key associated with the second user and device may have previously received from the social networking system a private key associated with the second user and the second user s public key. As another example and not by way of limitation device may have previously received from the social networking system a public key associated with the first user and device may have previously received from the social networking system a private key associated with the first user and the first user s public key.

In particular embodiments device or device may employ a challenge response authentication process. As an example and not by way of limitation device may generate and send one or more challenge messages or responses to device and vice versa where the challenge messages or responses may be hashed or encrypted using a public key encryption protocol. In particular embodiments connection request received from device may include a portion that is encrypted by device using the second user s private key or the first user s public key. Similarly in particular embodiments connection request acceptance sent by device may include a portion that is encrypted by device using the first user s private key or the second user s public key. In particular embodiments confirming that connection request is associated with the second user may include device decrypting an encrypted portion of connection request using the second user s public key or the first user s private key. Similarly in particular embodiments confirming that connection request acceptance is associated with the first user may include device decrypting an encrypted portion of connection request acceptance using the first user s public key or the second user s private key. As an example and not by way of limitation part of a device to device authentication process may include device encrypting some information e.g. a random number a name a code or token or the second user s social networking userid with the public key associated with the first user and sending the encrypted information to device . Device may then decrypt this information using the private key associated with the first user and device may send the decrypted information back to device . Device may verify that the decrypted information received from device corresponds to the information that was originally encrypted which authenticates device to device and indicates that device has the first user s private key. Alternately after decrypting the information received from device device may then encrypt the information using the public key associated with the second user. Device may then send the re encrypted information back to device and device may decrypt it using the private key associated with the second user. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular information that is encrypted using particular public or private keys this disclosure contemplates any suitable information that is encrypted using any suitable public or private keys.

In particular embodiments an exchange of encrypted information could occur as one way authentication e.g. device sends encrypted information to device or device sends encrypted information to device or as two way or mutual authentication in which both devices send or receive encrypted information to or from each other. In particular embodiments one device e.g. device may be set to always accept connection requests while another device e.g. device may be set to always authenticate a connection request or a connection request acceptance. In other particular embodiments both devices and may be set to always authenticate connection requests and connection request acceptances. In particular embodiments the first user or the second user may set their respective devices to accept all connection requests without requiring any security protocol. As an example and not by way of limitation the second user may desire to distribute their contact information and a document e.g. the second user may want to distribute a presentation they just gave at a conference to nearby people who are interested in receiving that information. The second user may configure their device to send out connection request and upon receipt of connection request acceptance from another user s device automatically send acknowledgement of acceptance and allow a direct connection to be established so that the other user s device may receive the document the second user wishes to distribute.

In particular embodiments the direct exchange of information between device and device may include device sending information to or receiving information from device by a direct peer to peer style connection between the two devices. As an example and not by way of limitation direct connection may be a connection that uses WI FI DIRECT protocol for the direct exchange of information between the two devices.

In particular embodiments the direct exchange of information as illustrated in may occur without either device or device connected to a network. In particular embodiments some information exchanged through direct connection may be stored on device or device to be sent later to a server or other suitable third party. As an example and not by way of limitation direct connection may include a friend request and information associated with the friend request may be stored on device or device . Later when device or device has a network connection information associated with the friend request may be sent to a social networking system so that the friend request can be processed by the social networking system.

In particular embodiments direct connection may be established between a first device associated with a first user and a second device where the second device may not be associated with a particular user. As an example and not by way of limitation the second device may be associated with a store where the first user is shopping. The first user s device and the store s device may establish direct connection after performing a one way authentication. As an example and not by way of limitation the store s device may broadcast connection request and the store s device may be configured to automatically send acknowledgement of acceptance in request to any connection request acceptance it receives. Then the first user s device may exchange profile information e.g. shoe size payment information or any other suitable information with the store s device using direct connection .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements feature functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements features functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

