---

title: Management of secure data in cloud-based network
abstract: A processor receives a request to access secure data. The processor translates the request in order to locate the secure data in a secure data store. The processor retrieves the secure data from the secure data store. The processor encodes the secure data to generate protected secure data. The processor transmits the protected secure data from the secure data store to at least one instantiated virtual machine in a cloud-based network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09112836&OS=09112836&RS=09112836
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09112836
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140114
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 335 844 filed Dec. 22 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 129 341 filed May 29 2008 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present teachings relate to systems and methods for the management of secure data in a cloud based network and more particularly to platforms and techniques for managing secure data in an on premise data store while establishing data processing resources to operate on that data in an external cloud.

Networked computer platforms warehouse a variety of sensitive data including personal information related to customers or other uses. For example many Web vendors retain customer name address and credit card information for the conveniences of their customers. Many other entities securely store sensitive private or critical information further including data such as medical information credit information tax information and many other varieties of personal or confidential information. The organization maintaining the data store may in cases be responsible for the integrity of the stored information due to regulatory requirements such as the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 the Health Insurance Privacy and Portability Act of 1996 Act HIPPA or other compliance frameworks.

An organization that manages secure data in an on premise or other network may choose to migrate that network to a cloud based environment. In a cloud based environment the user can select and establish a set of virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis to support Web storefronts and other applications. The resources required to support the user s set of virtual machines can be assembled from a set of resource servers which can supply various components for the user s specified infrastructure on a per component basis. One set of resources servers can supply processor cycles while another set of resource servers serve operating system or application servers to the set of virtual machines from the cloud. In cloud implementations the set of instantiated virtual machines however represent transient modules that lack permanent storage such as allocated disk storage.

When assembling a cloud based platform to process secure data for example a credit card company migrating statement processing to the cloud it may therefore be not practical or possible to migrate the secure data itself to the cloud. As one consideration the lack of permanent storage in the cloud may make it impossible for the operator to transmit the secure data store to the cloud for storage. For another even if storage were available or connected to the cloud regulator requirements as noted may prohibit the disclosure duplication or movement of secure data to an off premise site. It may be desirable to provide methods and systems for management of secure data in cloud based networks which permits the safe use of secure data from on premise data stores.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for the management of secure data in a cloud based network. More particularly embodiments relate to a platform for migrating or building a data processing facility to or in a cloud based environment while leaving a secure data store in place in an on premise facility. The set of virtual machines can operate to access and update secure data in the secure data store while maintaining appropriate safeguards for the data while being accessed manipulated and stored. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines in a cloud can transmit requests for secure data to be extracted from an on premise secure data store applying one or more protection mechanisms to communicate that data.

The secure data identified in the request can be translated via a translation module to extract the secure data using the operative protection mechanism. For instance the translation module can locate the data within a translation table or other redirection mechanism and mask that data for transmission to the requesting virtual machine. The masked secure data can in embodiments also or instead be encrypted via one or more layers of encryption for transmission via the Internet or other network to the virtual machine. The requesting virtual machine can receive and decode the masked secure data process that data and act on that data as appropriate. For example the requesting virtual machine can receive a credit card number or account number via those protection mechanisms and process a pending transaction based on that information. Other protection mechanisms can be used.

Upon completion of the necessary data processing activity the requesting virtual machine can delete the decoded secure data or in instances can transmit the secure data or an updated version of the secure data back to the secure data store using the same protection mechanisms. The set of instantiated virtual machines can therefore gain access to secure data stored in an on premise secure data store from the cloud while the integrity of that data is securely maintained. These and other embodiments described herein address the various noted shortcomings in known cloud computing technology and provide a user or network operator with an enhanced ability to make secure data available to sets of instantiated virtual machines.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present teachings which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Where possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource. For example one group of resource servers can host and serve an operating system or components thereof to deliver to and instantiate a virtual machine. Another group of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time to supply a defined level of processing power for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers can host and serve applications to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications or software. Other types of resource servers are possible.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated clients or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

Any one of the machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can make a request for the secure data hosted in secure data store . Virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be loaded or provisioned with a set of applications configured to operate on secure data to carry out various processing functions. For example the set of applications can contain one or more transaction processing applications or logic to permit the set of instantiated virtual machines to execute online transactions at a Web storefront or elsewhere using secure data such as credit card numbers or account numbers. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines can represent a migrated set of virtual processing resources to which an operator s data processing facilities have been moved. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines can represent an original build of a data processing infrastructure configured to operate on secure data .

A virtual machine in the set of instantiated virtual machines can transmit a data request to cloud management system to access secure data contained in secure data store . The request can contain a reference to secure data by an indirect address or identifier contained in secure data store . The cloud management system can respond by invoking translation module to translate the request for the secure data to locate a corresponding entry in secure data store such as a table entry. Translation module can locate secure data by reference to the location of that data in secure data store and access that data along with any associated secure data fields such as metadata defining the most recent date modified file type required permission levels or other information related to secure data . In embodiments secure data store can be hosted in the same physical premises or facility as cloud management system . In embodiments secure data store can be hosted in a separate facility or premise from cloud management system .

Translation module can then extract secure data and prepare it for transmission to the requesting virtual machine or machines by masking secure data to generate masked secure data . The masking of secure data can comprise performing a masking operation on secure data to alter the original information so that it will not travel in the clear. Various masking functions can be used. The masking operation can include merely for example masking a 16 digit account number or other data against a string or mask of the same length for instance 16 random 1 or 0 or other digits to alter the original number or other identifier. The result of the masking operation is masked secure data in the form of an altered string of digits. The masking operation can comprise passing or blocking individual digits aligned with 0 or 1 values respectively adding digits to corresponding digits or performing other operations. Blocked or concealed digits can be extracted using the mask string and related information such as encoded values of masked digits. In embodiments once masking is performed masked secure data can additionally be encrypted for example using public or private key encryption techniques. The masked secure data is transmitted by translation module of cloud management system to the requesting virtual machine via one or more networks . In embodiments other masking techniques can be used.

The virtual machine within the set of instantiated virtual machines that receives the masked secure data can decode that data via a decoder module configured to de mask decrypt or otherwise decode masked secure data to generate decoded secure data . Decoder module can receive masking strings or other data used to generate masked secure data from cloud management system to perform decoding or unmasking operations. One or more applications in set of applications installed on the requesting virtual machine can then receive and operate on decoded secure data for example to process an account number or credit card number to execute a purchase or other transaction. In embodiments the application in set of applications that operates on decoded secure data can store any updates to that data back to secure data store via cloud management system . In various embodiments an application in set of applications that captures an initial set of secure data for example from a user in an online transaction can likewise transmit that original secure data to secure data store to enter that data into the store. The return transmission of any new or updated information to secure data store can be via decoder module or other logic that performs the same types of translation masking encryption or other processing on decoded secure data as translation module .

In embodiments during all phases of transit therefore secure data is maintained in a masked encrypted or otherwise protected state. In embodiments secure data is likewise never transmitted in the clear and may only be indirectly referenced by translation to a table location or other address in secure data store . In embodiments secure data is likewise never stored in permanent storage in cloud or other locations other than secure data store . Desired processing functions can nevertheless be carried out in the set of instantiated virtual machines using that protected data.

In step the translation module or other logic in cloud management system can perform a masking and or encryption operation on the retrieved secure data. For instance public or private key encryption can be performed on the retrieved secure data. In step the cloud management system can transmit the resulting masked secure data to the requesting virtual machine. In step a decoder module in the requesting virtual machine can receive and decode the masked secure data to generate decoded secure data . In step the requesting virtual machine can operate on the decoded secure data using set of applications or other software or modules. For example the requesting virtual machine can operate on account information as the decoded secure data to execute a purchase or other transaction.

In step the requesting virtual machine in embodiments can mask encrypt or encode any resulting updated secure data and transmit that data to secure data store . In step as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which digit masking is employed as a protection mechanism in embodiments other or additional protection mechanisms can be used. For further example while embodiments have been described in which virtual machines access a single secure data store in embodiments the secure data available to the set of virtual machines can be stored in multiple data stores. For yet further example while embodiments have been described in which a single set of instantiated virtual machines accesses the secure data store in embodiments multiple or non overlapping sets of virtual machines can be configured to access secure data store . In implementations in which multiple sets of virtual machines access secure data store those various sets can be located in one or more clouds. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

