---

title: Optimized code table signaling for authentication to a network and information system
abstract: In various embodiments, a system comprising a network interface, a processor, and a non-transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor is disclosed. The memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor to receive a digital bit stream, transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream. The encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel, a composite channel, or a data channel, and any combination thereof, and provides the encoded digital bit stream to the network interface for transmission. A non-transitory computer-readable memory medium and a computer-implemented method also are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172499&OS=09172499&RS=09172499
owner: OPTCTS, INC.
number: 09172499
owner_city: Pacific Grove
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140620
---
The present application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 862 745 filed Aug. 6 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present application is related to the following previously filed U.S. Patent Applications which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 062 535 titled OPTIMIZED DATA TRANSFER UTILIZING OPTIMIZED CODE TABLE SIGNALING and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 099 180 titled ENHANCED SIGNAL INTEGRITY AND COMMUNICATION UTILIZING OPTIMIZED CODE TABLE SIGNALING U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 243 426 titled DYNAMIC CONTROL OF QUALITY OF SERVICE QOS USING DERIVED QOS MEASURES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 243 438 titled AUTHENTICATION OF A SUBSCRIBED CODE TABLE USER UTILIZING OPTIMIZED CODE TABLE SIGNALING.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of communication systems particularly to a data communication system utilizing optimized code table signaling.

The disclosure also generally relates to the field of networked systems particularly to an information system utilizing optimized code table signaling.

Various data communication schemes are available for radio communication systems. Modulation techniques e.g. analog or digital modulation may be utilized in such communication schemes. In addition encoding and decoding processes may also be utilized to improve the signal integrity of the data being communicated.

Various data transmission schemes are available for information systems. Cipher techniques may be utilized in such transmission schemes. In addition encoding and decoding processes may also be utilized to improve the signal integrity of the data being communicated.

In one embodiment the present disclosure is directed to data communication systems and methods. In various embodiments the method applies optimized code table signaling OCTS to a digital data stream for the purpose of optimizing its transfer adapting to a digital communications network and operating independent of industry and regulatory standards for input digital bit stream and transmission methods.

A further embodiment comprises applying OCTS to an analog bit stream that has been digitized for the purpose of optimizing the bit stream s transfer adapting to a communications method selected for transmission of digitized analog signals and operating independent of industry and regulatory standards for input digitized analog signal stream and transmission methods.

In one embodiment the present disclosure is also directed to data communication systems and methods. In various embodiments the method applies optimized code table signaling OCTS to a digital data stream for the purpose of enhancing signal integrity and communication adapting to a digital communications network and operating independent of industry and regulatory standards for input digital bit stream and transmission methods.

A further embodiment comprises applying OCTS to an analog bit stream that has been digitized for the purpose of enhancing signal integrity and communication of the bit stream adapting to a communications method selected for transmission of digitized analog signals and operating independent of industry and regulatory standards for input digitized analog signal stream and transmission methods.

In one embodiment the present disclosure is also directed to methods that enable dynamic control of the communication system s Quality of Service QOS through the use of derived QOS measures by applying changes to the parameters of optimized code table signaling for a digital data stream.

A further embodiment comprises enabling dynamic control of the communication system s QOS through the use of derived QOS measures by applying changes to the parameters of OCTS to an analog bit stream that has been digitized.

In one embodiment the present disclosure is also directed to methods that enable authentication of a subscribed user within the network to communicate with an individual within the network for whom the network is intended.

A further embodiment comprises enabling authentication of a subscribed user within the network to communicate with a server within the network where the server is communicating as one to many and the individual recipients may authenticate to communicate back to the server.

In one embodiment the present disclosure is also directed to a system comprising a network interface a processor and a non transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and provide the encoded digital bit stream to the network interface for transmission.

A further embodiment comprises a non transitory computer readable memory medium configured to store instructions thereon that when loaded by a processor cause the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and provide the encoded digital bit stream to the network interface for transmission.

A further embodiment comprises a computer implemented method executable in a network environment the network environment comprising a network interface a processor and a non transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor. The memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor. The method comprising receiving by the processor a digital bit stream transforming by the processor the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and providing by the processor the encoded digital bit stream to the network interface for transmission.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not necessarily restrictive of the present disclosure. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification illustrate subject matter of the disclosure. Together the descriptions and the drawings serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments including embodiments showing example implementations of systems and methods for OCTS expanded data communications. Wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict example embodiments of the disclosed systems and or methods of use for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative example embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

In one embodiment upon receiving data from a sender step transforms encodes the received data into a vector of real numbers which may be referred to as a real valued data vector . For example each n bit binary word may be transformed into a set of m real valued numbers. The transformation is calculated in real time for each binary word based on the mapping function or performed as a lookup in a pre computed table. For example in one embodiment Trellis Coded Modulation TCM is utilized for transforming a sequence of n bit binary words into a sequence of m real valued numbers based on the pre computed table.

The number m of real valued numbers utilized to represent an n bit binary word may vary based on the properties of the communication path environment. For example in one embodiment fewer than 6 real valued numbers are utilized to represent a 6 bit binary word in a less noisy environment. In another embodiment comprising a noisy environment a 6 bit binary word may be transformed into a set of 6 or more real valued numbers. Those skilled in the art will understand that a small m value the number of real valued numbers used to represent an n bit binary word increases transmission capacity while a larger m value provides better performance in a noisy environment. The specific values of n and m may be determined base on one or more properties of the communication environment such as for example noise level bit error rate signal integrity and or other properties.

A transmitter transmits the transformed real value data vector to a receive side. Standard communication mechanism such as for example radio communication technologies comprising analog and or digital module and or spread spectrum techniques may be utilized for the transmission. For example in one embodiment Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM is utilized for transmission of the transformed real value data vector from the sender side to the receiver side.

Upon receipt of the real valued data vector on the receiver side the received real valued data vector is transformed decoded into the computer readable format originally sent by the sender . In one embodiment the decoding process is performed as a table lookup for each set of m real valued numbers to locate the n bit binary word represented by the given set of m real valued numbers. For example for each set of m real valued numbers the decoding process locates an element in the lookup table that has the smallest Euclidian distance away from this set of m real valued numbers. Thus the n bit binary word that corresponds to this element in the lookup table is the n bit binary word represented by the set of m real valued numbers.

Once the transformation of the real valued data vector into data represented in a computer readable medium format is completed the computer readable data is transmitted to the receiver . It will be appreciated that additional signal integrity is provided by transmitting the encoded real valued data vectors instead of the original binary data stream. Since the transformation table or code table is not shared with a third party decoding of the intercepted real valued data vector by the third party into the format originally sent by the sender may be prevented and or deferred. In some embodiments the sender and the receiver both comprise a pool of potential code tables suitable for performing the encoding and decoding. The sender informs the receiver of the specific code table utilized for encoding via a table identifier such as for example acknowledging a table identifier as part of a handshake process and or sending the identifier as part of the data transmission. The table identifier may not be meaningful to the third party intercepting the transmission.

In some embodiments the performance of the data communication system is determined by the attributes of the code tables which may be optimized based on the properties of the communication environment. The code tables may not be unique for mapping an n bit binary word to a set of real valued numbers. In one embodiment the selection criteria for a suitable code table comprises 1 having a maximum distance between the data vectors while maintaining the maximum power in the data vectors and using the same dynamic range within each column and 2 providing an acceptable encoding and decoding performance for example above a predetermined threshold.

In one embodiment the code table selecting module comprises a determining module for determining at least one of a communication characteristic of a communication environment a desired level of signal integrity a desired data throughput level or any combination thereof. The code table selecting module selects the code table at least partially based upon at least one of the communication characteristic of the communication environment desired level of signal integrity desired data throughput level or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the code table selecting module includes a table generating module for creating a plurality of candidate code tables each of the plurality of candidate code tables having real valued data entries. The code table selecting module selects the code table from the plurality of candidate code tables based on an evaluation criterion. For example in one embodiment the evaluation criterion is based on at least one characteristic of the communication environment such as for example noise level bit error rate signal integrity and or other properties. In another embodiment the evaluation criterion comprises a minimum separation distance for a given candidate code table.

In some embodiments the code table selecting module comprises a selecting module for selecting a code table from a set of preconfigured code tables. Each preconfigured code table of the set of preconfigured code tables is associated with a performance metric to facilitate the selection process. Once a selection is made a coordinating module coordinates the code table selected with at least one receiver.

In some embodiments the data communication system comprises an evaluating module for evaluating a performance and or signal integrity metric of the code table. A determining module is configured to determine whether the performance and or signal integrity can be improved if the current code table is replaced with a new code table. If the performance and or signal integrity can be improved a replacing module replaces the current code table with the new code table and the new code table is utilized for subsequent data communications.

As previously mentioned the receiver is configured for transforming the vector of real numbers received into a best corresponding vector by utilizing the code table. In one embodiment the receiver comprises a vector generating module for creating a set of candidates for the best corresponding vector an associating module for associating each candidate of the set of candidates with a confidence value the confidence value for each candidate is determined based on a separation distance between the candidate and the vector of real numbers calculated utilizing the code table and a transforming module for transforming the vector of real numbers into the candidate with the best confidence value. In some embodiments the receiver comprises a storage device configured for storing the best corresponding vector.

In some embodiments code table generation algorithms are driven by a seed value passed into a pseudorandom number generator. By using a random number generator that creates an identical string of pseudorandom numbers given an identical seed the code table generation algorithms will generate an identical code table given an identical seed. A code table may be identified by a unique identifier within a naming scheme and or by a seed value. In some embodiments the code table algorithms require two or more seed values each for unique functions within the code table generation algorithm. When multiple seed values are used an exhaustive search of a code table space driven by creating an exhaustive list of code tables becomes prohibitively complex. In some embodiments code table generation comprises a three step process consisting of table creation table evaluation and table partitioning.

In some embodiments a full set of code table output vectors is referred to as a code table signal constellation. Given a pair of n element output vectors x x x . . . x and y y y . . . y the mean free Euclidian distance MFED between vectors x and y is given by the equation 

In some embodiments comprising sparsely populated code tables a table creation process generates a search algorithm to generate candidate code tables and to evaluate each of the candidate code tables with a code table metric. For example in one embodiment if a table is very sparsely populated a table generator spreads the signal constellation apart to generate better candidates as compared to a signal constellation with a more uniform spread. In another embodiment comprising a fully populated code table the minimum MFED may be identical in all cases. In this embodiment the table generator is configured to maintain mapping from a single random number seed to a specific and repeatedly generated code table.

An OCTS expanded process provides the means to manage many of the tasks of OCTS and expands the utility of OCTS as an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing digital communications system. In some embodiments an OCTS expanded table comprises an addition of a column to the OCTS table indicating the expanded use of each encoded vector. illustrates one embodiment of a standard OCTS table. illustrates one embodiment of an OCTS expanded table comprising an additional column. In some embodiments one or more internal OCTS expanded control channels are included for the OCTS expanded process. As illustrated in a traditional OCTS table comprises one or more OCTS encoded vectors . The OCTS expanded table illustrated in comprises one or more OCTS encoded vectors and further comprises a use column . The use column identifies the use of a vector within the OCTS expanded table .

In some embodiments OCTS expanded processing requires two independent channels denoted as the Gateway Channel and the Composite Channel. The Gateway Channel allows a member user into a protected communication or information system limited to the specific signal stream and recipient that have pre coordinated and pre distributed information. The Composite Channel provides message and control functions. Each channel requires its own code table denoted as the Gateway Code Table and the Composite Code Table. In some embodiments the encoded Gateway Channel output vectors are interleaved with the encoded Composite Channel output vectors into a single pipe. The interleaving provides an additional measure of complexity to the signal stream that may be used for additional functions beyond enhanced signal integrity and communication.

In some embodiments the Gateway Channel establishes signal integrity by virtue of the use of pre distributed information such as for example pre coordinated information and message manipulation functions. The Gateway Channel provides the signal integrity function and identifies the current Composite Channel OCTS configuration. The Gateway Channel may provide the function and configuration by for example a multi part message comprises a first part to provide the signal integrity and a second part to identify the current Composite Channel configuration. The Gateway Channel maintains signal integrity of the transmission using the pre distributed information. For example in one embodiment the Gateway Channel provides the means for uniquely coded acknowledgement from the recipient to the sender and maintains signal integrity by verifying receipt by the intended recipient. In some embodiments unique formatting of the transmission limits the transmission to the intended sender receiver pair. For example the multi part message may comprise unique formatting known only to the sender receiver pair which prevents interception or decoding of the transmission by receivers outside of the sender receiver pair.

In some embodiments a data vector is interleaved as illustrated in . A binary input data vector is provided to an OCTS expanded encoder . The OCTS expanded encoder applies an OCTS expanded table to the binary input data vector . A gateway encoder encodes a gateway channel utilizing a second OCTS expanded table. The data stream for the OCTS expanded encoder and the gateway encoder are interleaved into the same output stream to produce a multi valued output composite vector which is transmitted over a communication channel. In some embodiments the communication channel may comprise an RF communication channel. In other embodiments the communication channel may comprise any bound or unbound communication channel. An internal OCTS expanded controller is configured to control both the OCTS expanded encoder and the gateway encoder .

In operation signal integrity is established and maintained through the use of encoding provided by the use of OCTS. In some embodiments the transmitter encodes the digital bit stream intended for transmission using a pre distributed Gateway Channel code table to generate an OCTS expanded message. The OCTS expanded encoded message comprises Gateway Channel information and Composite Channel information. The Gateway Channel information may be distinguishable by for example location in the interleaved stream referred to as an interleaving schedule by use of the output vectors unique to the Gateway Channel referred to as table partitioning and or other suitable distinguishing techniques. The Gateway Channel provides an encoded bit stream to carry information required to decode the Composite Channel information.

In some embodiments pre distributed information provides the information necessary to decode the Gateway Channel information. The decoded Gateway Channel information identifies the current OCTS expanded code table in use by the Composite Channel and therefore allows access to the Composite Channel information. The pre distribtued information may comprise for example the Gateway Channel OCTS code table identifier the interleave schedule and or the table partitioning information for decoding the interleaved Gateway Channel and Composite Channel information additional coding used to verify the correct receipt of the Gateway Channel information such as for example a checksum or masking function and or any other information necessary for decoding and identifying the Gateway Channel information.

In some embodiments the Composite Channel comprises control data used to authenticate a transmitter and or a receiver adjust the code table for optimizing data transfer rate changing the code table to enhance where in the code table the data is located for maintaining signal integrity changing the interleaving of the signal data and control data and or additional information. The changes made by the control data in the Composite Channel may require a full transmit receive cycle to properly propagate within the system to affect a shift in the code table in use. By pre distributing the interleave schedule and or the table partitioning information the OCTS expanded transmission can only be decoded by a receiver in possession of the initial code table definitions and which knows the method of how subsequent code table changes are encoded within the digital bit stream. Signal integrity is maintained and protected as the sender has an increased assurance that only the intended recipient can decode the transmission and that the receiver will be able to identify the digital bit stream within the transmission even at reduced transmission quality.

In various embodiments a channel is defined as a specifically purposed stream of encoded information. illustrates one embodiment of an OCTS expanded table comprising a use column denoting the use type for each vector within the OCTS expanded table . Each data type of the Use Column of an OCTS expanded encoded vector has a designated use. In some embodiments control data for the Gateway Channel is used for gateway and code table identification and is denoted C1. Control data for the Gateway Channel may be further used for Receive and Transmit RX TX coordination. In some embodiments additional use column data for the Gateway Channel comprising Error Control Coding ECC information denoted as E1 and additional data denoted as D1 may be included in the OCTS expanded table . In some embodiments the Composite Channel is used for combination data RX TX coordination and or other possible control information. Control data for RX TX coordination in the Composite Channel is denoted C2 Error Control Coding information is denoted as E2 and additional data may be included and is denoted as D2. In some embodiments additional uses may exist for the Composite Channel and may be used for growth and expansion of the OCTS expanded process. In one embodiment the additional Composite Channel data defines the function and performance of OCTS expanded Quality of Service QOS processing.

In various embodiments a pipe comprises the full set of channels for an RX TX pair. A symbol comprises one element of an encoded output vector a frame comprises the full element set of an encoded output vector and a block comprises the full frame set of encoded vectors included in a message block. Symbol synchronization comprises the identification of the leading edge of single symbol. Frame synchronization comprises the identification of the initial symbol within a frame. Block synchronization comprises the identification of the initial frame within a message block.

In some embodiments the interleaved encoded multi valued output vector is created using a mask to identify the locations within the Composite Channel symbol stream to interleave with the Gateway Channel symbol stream. illustrates one embodiment of a composite channel code block a gateway channel code block a pipe comprising the interleaved composite channel code block and the gateway channel code block and a mask indicating the interleave pattern of the pipe . In the illustrated embodiment the gateway channel block length is dissimilar to the composite code block length and both are dissimilar to the Interleaved Code Block length. The interleaving of the Gateway Channel and the Composite Channel with frame and message synchronization requires symbol synchronization. In some embodiments the interleaving process sifts the symbols through the de interleave function. This is detailed in Table 1 and allows full message transmission through the Composite Channel.

In some embodiments a number q of symbol elements is available for each element of the output vector. For example in the case of Multiple Frequency Key Shifting with forty one unique tones q is equal to 41. The number of binary inputs comprises 2 where m is the number of elements in the binary input vector and the total number of possible output vectors is q where n is the number of elements in the encoded output vector. For example the OCTS expanded table illustrated in may be used to encode a 16 bit input vector. The number of unique binary inputs is 2 65 536 and the number of unique multi valued output vectors is 41 68 921. The OCTS expanded Code Table associated with this input output pairing is an array of dimension 68921 3 . In this example the D1 partition of the OCTS expanded Code Table comprises the first 65 536 rows leaving 68 921 65 536 3 385 rows to encode 3 385 C1 and E1 vectors.

In various embodiments an OCTS expanded process can transmit and receive into an existing digital communications system to integrate robust control features into the digital data stream. illustrates one embodiment of an OCTS expanded process integrated into a digital communications system. In this embodiment a conventional digital bit stream is converted to a composite multi valued stream including data control and additional error control coding information. The digital bit stream is provided to an input buffer . The input buffer passes the digital bit stream to an error control coding process . The digital bit stream and the error control coding stream are provided to a multiplexer which is coupled to an input vector mapper . The input vector mapper maps the output of the multiplexer to an OCTS expanded table. The composite channel signal coding process encodes mapped vectors based on a table stored by the composite table manager and the table library manager . The encoded data is passed to an interleaver to interleave the data with a gateway channel stream. The gateway channel stream is generated by a transmit controller coupled to a gateway channel formatter . The gateway channel formatter provides gateway channel data to a gateway channel mask which in turn passes the data to a gateway channel signal coding process for encoding the gateway channel data. The encoded gateway channel data is provided to the interleave signal processor and is interleaved with the composite channel data provided by the composite channel signal coding process. The interleaved signal is provided to an input buffer and then to the transmission medium . In some embodiments the output of the OCTS expanded processing transmit module of the digital communications system is one to one that is a given input to the OCTS expanded processing transmit module always results in the same output and the output is unique to the given input.

After being de interleaved the gateway channel is provided to a gateway channel signal coding block to decode the gateway channel data through an OCTS expanded table. The output of the gateway channel signal coding block is provided to a gateway channel mask block to remove the mask from the gateway channel data. The de masked gateway channel data is provided to a gateway channel formatter which removes previously added formatting from the gateway channel data and provides the gateway channel data to a receive controller .

In some embodiments the gateway code table and message blocks encode and decode the composite code table identifier and provide confidence in the composite code table identifier s correct decoding. In one embodiment an appropriate number of seeds for pseudorandom number generators are used by the receive function to uniquely generate the Composite Code Table. Multiple methods may be used to establish the Gateway Code Table and Message Blocks such as for example bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination of the two techniques.

In Bit Position Partitioning both the transmitter and receiver know the location of the encoded bits. Detection of the transmitted message is available to the receiver based on knowledge of the position of the encoded message. An appropriate number of seeds are used to generate the pseudorandom numbers for the unique encoding.

With table partitioning the partitions can be allocated to increase the Mean Free Euclidian Distance MFED between elements of the partition by assigning encoded elements with the smallest MFED to different partitions. This increases the MFED within a partition thus increasing noise rejection properties in the case where a received signal can be identified as a member of a specific partition.

With the use of table partitioning alone the gateway channel information can be encoded using the gateway channel s partition elements without the use of bit position partitioning for identification. With bit position partitioning the process of synchronizing against the first element of a message block can be achieved by recognizing the position of the gateway channel information within the block and stepping back in bit position with this known offset. In table partitioning the gateway channel information must carry this offset within its encoding since the offset from the received Gateway Channel bits and the lead bit of a message block can vary. illustrates one embodiment of a gateway code table and block configured for table partitioning. As illustrated in the OCTS expanded encoded vector for the gateway channel comprises the offset within the channel frames .

In various embodiments the interleave and de interleave functions are configured to act in coordination with each other. The interleave and de interleave functions are each driven by a controller utilizing the interleave and de interleave specification and sequencing seeds.

In some embodiments the gateway channel format and reformat functions are configured to act in coordination with each other. The gateway channel format and reformat functions are each driven by the controller utilizing the gateway channel format and reformat specification and sequencing seeds.

In some embodiments an error correcting code such a Bose Chaudhuri and or Hocquenghem BCH code that generates additional bits that are added uniquely to the data stream is included in the OCTS expanded processing. By adding the use definition to each code the E1 encoded vectors can be injected into the composite data stream in an arbitrary location since they can be identified specifically as the generated parity and error correction bits. In various embodiments the input MUX and output DEMUX are configured to act in coordination with each other. The input MUX and the output DEMUX are each driven by the controller utilizing the MUX DEMUX specification and sequencing seeds.

In some embodiments an OCTS expanded communication system comprises a controller. The controller is responsible for a series of tasks such as for example QOS monitoring and code table selection to meet the needs of a dynamic transmission environment. The controller may be further responsible for specifying scheduling and coordinating code table swaps input remapping multiplexer and de multiplexer operations gateway channel formatting and or interleaved operations. In some embodiments the controller is configured to receive information such as for example code table swap seeds input remapping seeds multiplexer and de multiplexer operation seeds gate channel formatting seeds and or interleaved operation seeds. The received seeds may be generated from the code table generator seeds coded in the gateway channel.

In some embodiments operational requirements for the controller comprise monitoring the transmission environment and adapting to the transmission environment and maintaining a sufficiently high rate of table swapping to maintain signal integrity. The operational requirements may be driven by a specific application. The controller management may be driven by a requirements matrix an options matrix defined by the system resources and or direct and indirect performance and transmission environment measures. Direct performance and transmission environment measures may comprise for example direct QOS measurements derived using code built into the code table to calibrate against a known signal and receiver unique measurements. Indirect performance and transmission environment measures may comprise for example bit error rate derived from error control coding schemes SNR estimate derived from miss distance measures used in the decoding process and or rule in rule out measure.

In some embodiments an indirect performance and transmission environment measure comprises rule in rule out measure. An OCTS decode process requires comparing the received decoded vector against all of the encoded vectors in a code table. In some embodiments rather than an exhaustive search of the table a rule in rule may be implemented. A rule in rule requires that if the MFED between the input vector and a code table vector is less than a predetermined value the decoded vector is immediately ruled in as the matching vector and the search can cease. In some embodiments a rule out rule may be implemented. A rule out rule requires that if the accumulated MFED calculated on a vector element by vector element basis exceeds a predetermined threshold the code table vector can be ruled out and the MFED calculation for that vector can cease. In some embodiments a derived measure is generated in the case where no vector is ruled in and all but a few vectors are ruled out. In this embodiment the vectors that are not ruled out are correlated to a signal to noise ratio and the proper match determined.

While the binary input data vector is being processed by the Composite Channel transmit side the transmit composite channel controller also passes the input stream to the gateway channel formatter in the Gateway Channel transmit side . The gateway channel formatter communicates with the gateway channel bi directional map to encode intermediate variables and format the input stream. The formatted gateway information from the gateway channel formatter is transferred to the gateway channel OCTS table encode process where it undergoes OCTS encoding. The OCTS encoded gateway information from the gateway channel OCTS table encode process is interleaved with the OCTS encoded composite information stream from the composite channel OCTS expanded table encode process . The resulting interleaved input stream from the interleave process is passed to an output buffer which issues a multi valued output vector .

While the input stream is being processed by the Composite Channel receive side it is also being processed by the Gateway Channel receive side . The gateway channel OCTS table decode process receives the deinterleaved input stream and produces OCTS decoded gateway information. The OCTS decoded gateway information is transferred to a gateway channel reformat process which reformats the gateway information. The gateway channel reformat process communicates with a gateway channel bi directional map to decode intermediate variables and returns its result to the receive composite channel controller .

In the embodiment illustrated by the transmit composite channel controller of a host server serves as the master controller and provides dynamic control of both the host server system and client server system either to adapt to a changing transmission environment or to change to system tables and maps that provide additional network and signal integrity. The control information from the transmit composite channel controller of the host server flows to the host server receive composite channel controller along control flow and also to the host server transmit mux for transmission to the client server. The control information received by a client server continues to the client server s demux from which it is transferred to the receive composite channel controller of the client server. The client server s receive composite channel controller transfers the control information along control flow to the client server s transmit composite controller .

In some embodiments the Gateway Channel OCTS Expanded Table used by the gateway channel OCTS table encode process and decode process may use a set of associated tables each generated using a continuation of a pseudo random sequence generated by the seed or seeds used to create the Gateway Channel OCTS Expanded Table. The associate tables may include a formatter sequence and schedule a channel mask sequence and schedule and or an interleave sequence and schedule.

Similarly in some embodiments the Composite Channel OCTS Expanded Table used by the composite channel OCTS table encode process and decode process may use a set of associated tables also generated by a continuation of a pseudo random sequence generated by the seed or seeds used to create the Composite Channel OCTS Expanded Table. The associated tables may include an error control coding ECC sequence and schedule an input mapping sequence and schedule and an OCTS expanded table sequence and schedule.

In some embodiments the system design process is driven by requirements outlined in Table 2. The design outlined in Table 2 comprises identifying the operating range prioritizing requirements and designing a set of sequenced Code Tables that meet the requirements.

Further embodiments provide for the changing of elements of OCTS either by choice of code table bit positioning table partitioning interleaving or a combination thereof to maintain a desired level of QOS based on derived quantitative measures of QOS. Derived measures of QOS may include but are not limited to service response time loss signal to noise ratio crosstalk echo interrupts frequency response loudness levels a required bit rate delay jitter packet dropping probability and or bit error rate data rate and delay dynamically control scheduling priorities validation of embedded controls message echo and any other measures of QOS that may be derived by one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments OCTS is configured based on initial conditions where the table is selected based on the minimum MFED across all output vector pairs where the largest MFED is desired. OCTS enhanced is designed to allow the sender and receiver to manage communication based on a desired level of QOS. Sender Receiver combinations specify the desired level of QOS and use derived measures of QOS to modify the initial and subsequent table to maintain the desired level of QOS.

OCTS is applicable across the range of bound and unbound communication methods and the methods of specifying QOS and deriving measure of QOS for those media. It is applicable to the range of signal transmission techniques including but not limited to Frequency Shift Key FSK Phase Shift Key PSK Pulse Width Modulation PWM Pulse Amplitude Modulation PAM Frequency Modulation FM Amplitude Modulation AM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM and combinations of these and other techniques.

OCTS is also applicable to a wide variety of network types and protocols including telephony continuous data transmission and packet switched networks which each may possess specific QOS metrics for performance and may have unique quantitative measures of QOS. This is specifically true within explicit protocols for network type such as frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM and multiprotocol label switching MPLS for packet switched networks. Mobile networks present unique challenges and often have unique QOS requirements. Unique QOS requirements also exist for circuit switched networks as well as for streaming multimedia especially full fidelity video data.

Telephony Service Response Time. Service response time is critical in telephony as a real time process. Management of service response time by changing table size changing bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to modify the blended partitioning for the m element vector table is key to establishing the minimum service response time. Dynamic changes in these elements can assure that a minimum service response time is met.

Telephony Signal to Noise Ratio. Signal to Noise Ratio SNR is a key measure in QOS as it defines the baseline of where a signal can be distinguished from the combination of baseline noise and interference. OCTS fundamentally manages SNR by shifting the modulation of the signal within the frequency band of operation to avoid noise. OCTS enhanced can dynamically shift operation through changing table size changing bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to modify the blended partitioning for the m element vector table to operate outside of a changing noise band for the transmission.

Telephony Frequency Response. Many telephony applications depend on frequency characteristics for the transmission of signals. These include modulation techniques such as Frequency Shift Keying FSK Phase Shift Keying and Pulse Width Modulation PWM techniques. Frequency response can be quantitatively measured and used to change table size bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to modify the blended partitioning for the m element vector table in order to optimize Frequency Response.

Packet switched networks low throughput. Calculation of throughput including encode and decode time may require shifting to a table that improves encode decode performance by reducing table size changing bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to modify the blended partitioning for the m element vector table to enhance throughput.

Packet switched networks Dropped Packets. Failed delivery of packets may require shifting to a table that reduces data rate or increases buffering to allow for proper packet delivery by reducing table size changing bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to modify the blended partitioning for the m element vector table to prevent dropping packets.

Packet switched networks Bit Error. Errors in the data detected by the receiver may require shifting to a table that adds redundancy to the transmitted data by reducing table size changing bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to modify the blended partitioning for the m element vector table to eliminate bit errors in the received data.

Packet switched networks Latency. Latency that impacts an application such as VoIP may require shifting to a table that reduces overhead lessening the impact of OCTS on latency by reducing table size changing bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to modify the blended partitioning for the m element vector table to prevent dropping packets.

Packet switched networks Jitter and Out of Order Delivery. OCTS is highly sensitive to order of packets as transmitted and received to assure that packets remain ordered especially due to the impact of the Gateway Channel and Composite Channel. A protocol for managing out of order packets may be contained within the encoding and may result in changes in table size bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to modify the blended partitioning for the m element vector table to manage jitter and out of order delivery.

In one embodiment the gathering of QOS information involves a host server and a client server. Referring again to the client server s receive composite channel controller aggregates QOS information from various points in the client server s Composite Channel and Gateway Channel in the client s receive side . The client server s receive composite channel controller passes the aggregated QOS information to the client server s transmit composite channel controller along flow path for transmission by the client server s transmit side to a host server.

Further embodiments provide authentication of a user to a network or to another specific user to provide a higher level of assurance and of privacy to a communication between the sender and the receiver. Authentication may be provided within the elements of OCTS and may be implemented by receipt and decoding of the embedded Gateway Channel encoded bit stream. This decoding requires pre distributed information identifying the Gateway Channel initialization parameters to include the specific OCTS table the Gateway Channel message formatting algorithm the Gateway Channel bi directional map and interleave map for interleaving the Gateway Channel bit stream with the Composite Channel. The Gateway Channel message formatting algorithm is designed with a verification function e.g. checksum CRC etc. such that the valid decoding of the encoded bit stream is authenticated only when the verification function derived value is valid. This provides one way authentication at the receiver that the transmitter is valid. Utilization of these techniques may include but is not limited to techniques as described above and may be extended to those that may be derived by one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments OCTS is configured based on initial conditions where the table is selected based on the minimum MFED across all output vector pairs where the largest MFED is desired. Within the initial conditions used to establish the desired table for use the initial authentication information may be encoded into the Gateway Channel. OCTS enhanced is designed to allow the sender and receiver to manage communication based on a desired level of privacy and the ability to adapt the authentication information supports this feature. Sender Receiver combinations specify the desired level of privacy for the current and future communications and use encoded data within the Gateway and Composite Channels to modify the initial authentication information and provide updates to the sender and receiver respectively.

Authentication may be further validated by the response from the receiver as returned to the sender. Since the message path from the sender to the receiver need not be identical to the message path from the receiver to the sender this can employ an additional set of pre distributed information defining the receiver to the sender path. This can be used to authenticate to the sender that the receiver is a validated member of the network. The Gateway Channel message formatting algorithm is used to encode the description of the current state of the Composite Channel encoding including the Composite Channel OCTS table. The partition of the Composite Channel OCTS table uniquely encodes data QOS measures system control logic and Error Control Coding. The system control data is a limited set of symbols constrained by operational sequencing. Receipt of a control vector that does not make operational sense may be identified. The identification of a control data vector that is outside of operational constraints may provide an additional measure of authentication.

Authentication mechanisms described herein are applicable to the range of signal transmission techniques including but not limited to Frequency Shift Key FSK Phase Shift Key PSK Pulse Width Modulation PWM Pulse Amplitude Modulation PAM Frequency Modulation FM Amplitude Modulation AM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM and combinations of these and other techniques.

Authentication mechanisms are also applicable to a wide variety of network types and protocols including telephony continuous data transmission and packet switched networks which each may possess specific authentication techniques. This is specifically true within explicit protocols for network type such as frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM and multiprotocol label switching MPLS for packet switched networks. Mobile networks present unique challenges and often have unique authentication requirements.

In one embodiment upon receiving data from a sender step transforms encodes the received data into a vector of real numbers which may be referred to as a real valued data vector . For example each n bit binary word may be transformed into a set of m real valued numbers. The transformation is calculated in real time for each binary word based on the mapping function or performed as a lookup in a pre computed table. For example in one embodiment Trellis Coded Modulation TCM is utilized for transforming a sequence of n bit binary words into a sequence of m real valued numbers based on the pre computed table.

The number m of real valued numbers utilized to represent an n bit binary word may vary based on the properties of the network path environment. For example in one embodiment fewer than 6 real valued numbers are utilized to represent a 6 bit binary word. In another embodiment a 6 bit binary word may be transformed into a set of 6 or more real valued numbers. Those skilled in the art will understand that a small m value the number of real valued numbers used to represent an n bit binary word increases transmission capacity while a larger m value provides better signal integrity performance. The specific values of n and m may be determined base on one or more properties of the communication environment such as for example signal integrity and or other properties.

A transmitter transmits the transformed real value data vector to a receive side. Standard communication mechanism such as for example networking technologies comprising analog and or digital module techniques may be utilized for the transmission. For example in one embodiment Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP is utilized for transmission of the transformed real value data vector from the sender side to the network side.

Upon receipt of the real valued data vector on the network side the received real valued data vector is transformed decoded into the computer readable format originally sent by the sender . In one embodiment the decoding process is performed as a table lookup for each set of m real valued numbers to locate the n bit binary word represented by the given set of m real valued numbers. For example for each set of m real valued numbers the decoding process locates an element in the lookup table from this set of m real valued numbers. Thus the n bit binary word that corresponds to this element in the lookup table is the n bit binary word represented by the set of m real valued numbers.

Once the transformation of the real valued data vector into data represented in a computer readable medium format is completed the computer readable data is transmitted to the receiver . It will be appreciated that additional signal integrity is provided by transmitting the encoded real valued data vectors instead of the original binary data stream. Since the transformation table or code table is not shared with a third party decoding of the intercepted real valued data vector by the third party into the format originally sent by the sender may be prevented and or deferred. In some embodiments the sender and the receiver both comprise a pool of potential code tables suitable for performing the encoding and decoding. The sender informs the receiver of the specific code table utilized for encoding via a table identifier such as for example acknowledging a table identifier as part of a handshake process and or sending the identifier as part of the data transmission. The table identifier may not be meaningful to the third party intercepting the transmission.

In some embodiments the performance of the information system is determined by the attributes of the code tables which may be optimized based on the properties of the network environment. The code tables may not be unique for mapping an n bit binary word to a set of real valued numbers. In one embodiment the selection criteria for a suitable code table comprises providing an acceptable encoding and decoding performance for example above a predetermined threshold.

In one embodiment the code table selecting module comprises a determining module for determining at least one of a network characteristic of a network environment a desired level of signal integrity a desired data throughput level or any combination thereof. The code table selecting module selects the code table at least partially based upon at least one of the network characteristic of the network environment desired level of signal integrity desired data throughput level or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the code table selecting module includes a table generating module for creating a plurality of candidate code tables each of the plurality of candidate code tables having real valued data entries. The code table selecting module selects the code table from the plurality of candidate code tables based on an evaluation criterion. For example in one embodiment the evaluation criterion is based on at least one characteristic of the network environment such as for example signal integrity and or other properties.

In some embodiments the code table selecting module comprises a selecting module for selecting a code table from a set of preconfigured code tables. Each preconfigured code table of the set of preconfigured code tables is associated with a performance metric to facilitate the selection process. Once a selection is made a coordinating module coordinates the code table selected with at least one receiver.

In some embodiments the data information system comprises an evaluating module for evaluating a performance and or signal integrity metric of the code table. A determining module is configured to determine whether the performance and or signal integrity can be improved if the current code table is replaced with a new code table. If the performance and or signal integrity can be improved a replacing module replaces the current code table with the new code table and the new code table is utilized for subsequent data communications.

As previously mentioned the network is configured for transforming the vector of real numbers received into a best corresponding vector by utilizing the code table. In one embodiment the network comprises a vector generating module for creating a set of candidates for the best corresponding vector an associating module for associating each candidate of the set of candidates with a confidence value the confidence value for each candidate is determined based on a separation distance between the candidate and the vector of real numbers calculated utilizing the code table and a transforming module for transforming the vector of real numbers into the candidate with the best confidence value. In some embodiments the receiver comprises a storage device configured for storing the best corresponding vector.

In some embodiments code table generation algorithms are driven by a seed value passed into a pseudorandom number generator. By using a random number generator that creates an identical string of pseudorandom numbers given an identical seed the code table generation algorithms will generate an identical code table given an identical seed. A code table may be identified by a unique identifier within a naming scheme and or by a seed value. In some embodiments the code table algorithms require two or more seed values each for unique functions within the code table generation algorithm. When multiple seed values are used an exhaustive search of a code table space driven by creating an exhaustive list of code tables becomes prohibitively complex. In some embodiments code table generation comprises a three step process consisting of table creation table evaluation and table partitioning.

In some embodiments comprising sparsely populated code tables a table creation process generates a search algorithm to generate candidate code tables and to evaluate each of the candidate code tables with a code table metric. For example in one embodiment if a table is very sparsely populated a table generator spreads the signal constellation apart to generate better candidates as compared to a signal constellation with a more uniform spread.

An OCTS expanded process provides the means to manage many of the tasks of OCTS and expands the utility of OCTS as an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing information system. In some embodiments an OCTS expanded table comprises an addition of a column to the OCTS table indicating the expanded use of each encoded vector. illustrates one embodiment of a standard OCTS table. illustrates one embodiment of an OCTS expanded table comprising an additional column. In some embodiments one or more internal OCTS expanded control channels are included for the OCTS expanded process. As illustrated in a traditional OCTS table comprises one or more OCTS encoded vectors . The OCTS expanded table illustrated in comprises one or more OCTS encoded vectors and further comprises a use column . The use column identifies the use of a vector within the OCTS expanded table .

In some embodiments a data vector is interleaved as illustrated in . A binary input data vector is provided to an OCTS expanded encoder . The OCTS expanded encoder applies an OCTS expanded table to the binary input data vector . A gateway encoder encodes a gateway channel utilizing a second OCTS expanded table. The data stream for the OCTS expanded encoder and the gateway encoder are interleaved into the same output stream to produce a multi valued output composite vector which is transmitted over a communication channel. In some embodiments the communication channel may comprise a network channel. In other embodiments the communication channel may comprise any bound or unbound network. An internal OCTS expanded controller is configured to control both the OCTS expanded encoder and the gateway encoder .

In operation signal integrity is established and maintained through the use of encoding provided by the use of OCTS. In some embodiments the transmitter encodes the digital bit stream intended for transmission using a pre distributed Gateway Channel code table to generate an OCTS expanded message. The OCTS expanded encoded message comprises Gateway Channel information and Composite Channel information. The Gateway Channel information may be distinguishable by for example location in the interleaved stream referred to as an interleaving schedule by use of the output vectors unique to the Gateway Channel referred to as table partitioning and or other suitable distinguishing techniques. The Gateway Channel provides an encoded bit stream to carry information required to decode the Composite Channel information.

In some embodiments pre distributed information provides the information necessary to decode the Gateway Channel information. The decoded Gateway Channel information identifies the current OCTS expanded code table in use by the Composite Channel and therefore allows access to the Composite Channel information. The pre distribtued information may comprise for example the Gateway Channel OCTS code table identifier the interleave schedule and or the table partitioning information for decoding the interleaved Gateway Channel and Composite Channel information additional coding used to verify the correct receipt of the Gateway Channel information such as for example a checksum or masking function and or any other information necessary for decoding and identifying the Gateway Channel information.

In some embodiments the Composite Channel comprises control data used to authenticate a transmitter and or a receiver adjust the code table for optimizing data transfer rate changing the code table to enhance where in the code table the data is located for maintaining signal integrity changing the interleaving of the signal data and control data and or additional information. The changes made by the control data in the Composite Channel may require a full transmit receive cycle to properly propagate within the system to affect a shift in the code table in use. By pre distributing the interleave schedule and or the table partitioning information the OCTS expanded transmission can only be decoded by a receiver in possession of the initial code table definitions and which knows the method of how subsequent code table changes are encoded within the digital bit stream. Signal integrity is maintained and protected as the sender has an increased assurance that only the intended recipient can decode the transmission and that the receiver will be able to identify the digital bit stream within the transmission even at reduced transmission quality.

In various embodiments a channel is defined as a specifically purposed stream of encoded information. illustrates one embodiment of an OCTS expanded table comprising a use column denoting the use type for each vector within the OCTS expanded table . Each data type of the Use Column of an OCTS expanded encoded vector has a designated use. In some embodiments control data for the Gateway Channel is used for gateway and code table identification and is denoted C1. Control data for the Gateway Channel may be further used for Receive and Transmit RX TX coordination. In some embodiments additional use column data for the Gateway Channel comprising Error Control Coding ECC information denoted as E1 and additional data denoted as D1 may be included in the OCTS expanded table . In some embodiments the Composite Channel is used for combination data RX TX coordination and or other possible control information. Control data for RX TX coordination in the Composite Channel is denoted C2 Error Control Coding information is denoted as E2 and additional data may be included and is denoted as D2. In some embodiments additional uses may exist for the Composite Channel and may be used for growth and expansion of the OCTS expanded process.

In various embodiments a pipe comprises the full set of channels for an RX TX pair. A symbol comprises one element of an encoded output vector a frame comprises the full element set of an encoded output vector and a block comprises the full frame set of encoded vectors included in a message block. Symbol synchronization comprises the identification of the leading edge of single symbol. Frame synchronization comprises the identification of the initial symbol within a frame. Block synchronization comprises the identification of the initial frame within a message block.

In some embodiments the interleaved encoded multi valued output vector is created using a mask to identify the locations within the Composite Channel symbol stream to interleave with the Gateway Channel symbol stream. illustrates one embodiment of a composite channel code block a gateway channel code block a pipe comprising the interleaved composite channel code block and the gateway channel code block and a mask indicating the interleave pattern of the pipe . In the illustrated embodiment the gateway channel block length is dissimilar to the composite code block length and both are dissimilar to the Interleaved Code Block length. The interleaving of the Gateway Channel and the Composite Channel with frame and message synchronization requires symbol synchronization. In some embodiments the interleaving process sifts the symbols through the de interleave function. This is detailed in Table 1 and allows full message transmission through the Composite Channel.

In some embodiments a number q of symbol elements is available for each element of the output vector. For example in the case of Multiple Pulse Width Modulation with forty one unique pulse widths q is equal to 41. The number of binary inputs comprises 2 where m is the number of elements in the binary input vector and the total number of possible output vectors is q where n is the number of elements in the encoded output vector. For example the OCTS expanded table illustrated in may be used to encode a 16 bit input vector. The number of unique binary inputs is 2 65 536 and the number of unique multi valued output vectors is 41 68 921. The OCTS expanded Code Table associated with this input output pairing is an array of dimension 68921 3 . In this example the D1 partition of the OCTS expanded Code Table comprises the first 65 536 rows leaving 68 921 65 536 3 385 rows to encode 3 385 C1 and E1 vectors.

In various embodiments an OCTS expanded process can transmit and receive into an existing information system to integrate robust control features into the digital data stream. illustrates one embodiment of an OCTS expanded process integrated into a digital communications system. In this embodiment a conventional digital bit stream is converted to a composite multi valued stream including data control and additional error control coding information. The digital bit stream is provided to an input buffer . The input buffer passes the digital bit stream to an error control coding process . The digital bit stream and the error control coding stream are provided to a multiplexer which is coupled to an input vector mapper . The input vector mapper maps the output of the multiplexer to an OCTS expanded table. The composite channel signal coding process encodes mapped vectors based on a table stored by the composite table manager and the table library manager . The encoded data is passed to an interleaver to interleave the data with a gateway channel stream. The gateway channel stream is generated by a transmit controller coupled to a gateway channel formatter . The gateway channel formatter provides gateway channel data to a gateway channel mask which in turn passes the data to a gateway channel signal coding process for encoding the gateway channel data. The encoded gateway channel data is provided to the interleave signal processor and is interleaved with the composite channel data provided by the composite channel signal coding process. The interleaved signal is provided to an input buffer and then to the transmission medium . In some embodiments the output of the OCTS expanded processing transmit module of the digital communications system is one to one that is a given input to the OCTS expanded processing transmit module always results in the same output and the output is unique to the given input.

After being de interleaved the gateway channel is provided to a gateway channel signal coding block to decode the gateway channel data through an OCTS expanded table. The output of the gateway channel signal coding block is provided to a gateway channel mask block to remove the mask from the gateway channel data. The de masked gateway channel data is provided to a gateway channel formatter which removes previously added formatting from the gateway channel data and provides the gateway channel data to a receive controller .

In some embodiments the gateway code table and message blocks encode and decode the composite code table identifier and provide confidence in the composite code table identifier s correct decoding. In one embodiment an appropriate number of seeds for pseudorandom number generators are used by the receive function to uniquely generate the Composite Code Table. Multiple methods may be used to establish the Gateway Code Table and Message Blocks such as for example bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination of the two techniques.

In Bit Position Partitioning both the transmitter and receiver know the location of the encoded bits. Detection of the transmitted message is available to the receiver based on knowledge of the position of the encoded message. An appropriate number of seeds are used to generate the pseudorandom numbers for the unique encoding.

With the use of table partitioning alone the gateway channel information can be encoded using the gateway channel s partition elements without the use of bit position partitioning for identification. With bit position partitioning the process of synchronizing against the first element of a message block can be achieved by recognizing the position of the gateway channel information within the block and stepping back in bit position with this known offset. In table partitioning the gateway channel information must carry this offset within its encoding since the offset from the received Gateway Channel bits and the lead bit of a message block can vary. illustrates one embodiment of a gateway code table and block configured for table partitioning. As illustrated in the OCTS expanded encoded vector for the gateway channel comprises the offset within the channel frames .

In various embodiments the interleave and de interleave functions are configured to act in coordination with each other. The interleave and de interleave functions are each driven by a controller utilizing the interleave and de interleave specification and sequencing seeds.

In some embodiments the gateway channel format and reformat functions are configured to act in coordination with each other. The gateway channel format and reformat functions are each driven by the controller utilizing the gateway channel format and reformat specification and sequencing seeds.

In some embodiments an error correcting code such a Bose Chaudhuri and or Hocquenghem BCH code that generates additional bits that are added uniquely to the data stream is included in the OCTS expanded processing. By adding the use definition to each code the E1 encoded vectors can be injected into the composite data stream in an arbitrary location since they can be identified specifically as the generated parity and error correction bits. In various embodiments the input MUX and output DEMUX are configured to act in coordination with each other. The input MUX and the output DEMUX are each driven by the controller utilizing the MUX DEMUX specification and sequencing seeds.

In some embodiments an OCTS expanded information system comprises a controller. The controller is responsible for a series of tasks such as for example code table selection to meet the needs of a dynamic transmission environment. The controller may be further responsible for specifying scheduling and coordinating code table swaps input remapping multiplexer and de multiplexer operations gateway channel formatting and or interleaved operations. In some embodiments the controller is configured to receive information such as for example code table swap seeds input remapping seeds multiplexer and de multiplexer operation seeds gate channel formatting seeds and or interleaved operation seeds. The received seeds may be generated from the code table generator seeds coded in the gateway channel.

In some embodiments operational requirements for the controller comprise monitoring the transmission environment and adapting to the transmission environment and maintaining a sufficiently high rate of table swapping to maintain signal integrity. The operational requirements may be driven by a specific application. The controller management may be driven by a requirements matrix an options matrix defined by the system resources and or direct and indirect performance and transmission environment measures. Direct performance and transmission environment measures may comprise for example direct measurements derived using code built into the code table to calibrate against a known signal and receiver unique measurements. Indirect performance and transmission environment measures may comprise for example rule in rule out measure.

In some embodiments an indirect performance and transmission environment measure comprises rule in rule out measure. An OCTS decode process requires comparing the received decoded vector against all of the encoded vectors in a code table. In some embodiments rather than an exhaustive search of the table a rule in rule may be implemented. In some embodiments a derived measure is generated in the case where no vector is ruled in and all but a few vectors are ruled out.

In this example the computing device comprises one or more processor circuits or processing units one or more memory circuits and or storage circuit component s and one or more input output I O circuit devices . Additionally the computing device comprises a bus that allows the various circuit components and devices to communicate with one another. The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus may comprise wired and or wireless buses.

The processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs application programs and or modules to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device . The processing unit may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wired or wireless communication channels. Although the processing unit of the computing device includes single processor architecture as shown it may be appreciated that the computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a as a general purpose processor. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the processing unit may be coupled to the memory and or storage component s through the bus . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be shown as being separate from the processing unit for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be implemented in an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit . In various embodiments the computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk etc. . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The one or more I O devices allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card etc. . The computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and or an integrated number dial pad. The computing device may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with the tip of a finger or a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device . For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS Android OS Apple OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

The computer also includes a network interface coupled to the bus . The network interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a local network . For example the network interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL modem satellite dish an integrated services digital network ISDN card or other data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example the communication interface may be a local area network LAN card effecting a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless communication means such as internal or external wireless modems may also be implemented.

In any such implementation the network interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information such as a selection of goods to be purchased the information for payment of such purchase or the address for delivery of the goods. The network interface typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network interface may effect a connection through the local network to an Internet Service Provider ISP or to data equipment operated by an ISP. The ISP in turn provides data communication services through the internet or other packet based wide area network . The local network and the internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network interface which carry the digital data to and from the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

The computer can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s and the network interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through the internet the ISP the local network the network and the network interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

Various embodiments may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as software program modules and or engines being executed by a computer. Generally software program modules and or engines include any software element arranged to perform particular operations or implement particular abstract data types. Software program modules and or engines can include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of the software program modules and or engines components and techniques may be stored on and or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. In this regard computer readable media can be any available medium or media useable to store information and accessible by a computing device. Some embodiments also may be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software program modules and or engines may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising functional components software engines and or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components software engines and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In other embodiments the functional components such as software engines and or modules may be implemented by hardware elements that may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth.

Examples of software engines and or modules may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a computer readable storage medium arranged to store logic instructions and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

While various details have been set forth in the foregoing description it will be appreciated that the various embodiments of the apparatus system and method for optimized code table signaling may be practiced without these specific details. For example for conciseness and clarity selected aspects have been shown in block diagram form rather than in detail. Some portions of the detailed descriptions provided herein may be presented in terms of instructions that operate on data that is stored in a computer memory. Such descriptions and representations are used by those skilled in the art to describe and convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. In general an algorithm refers to a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result where a step refers to a manipulation of physical quantities which may though need not necessarily take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It is common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. These and similar terms may be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the foregoing description discussions using terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one aspect an aspect one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the aspect is included in at least one aspect. Thus appearances of the phrases in one aspect in an aspect in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same aspect. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more aspects.

Although various embodiments have been described herein many modifications variations substitutions changes and equivalents to those embodiments may be implemented and will occur to those skilled in the art. Also where materials are disclosed for certain components other materials may be used. It is therefore to be understood that the foregoing description and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and variations as falling within the scope of the disclosed embodiments. The following claims are intended to cover all such modification and variations.

In summary numerous benefits have been described which result from employing the concepts described herein. The foregoing description of the one or more embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting to the precise form disclosed. Modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The one or more embodiments were chosen and described in order to illustrate principles and practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the claims submitted herewith define the overall scope.

Some or all of the embodiments described herein may generally comprise technologies which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link e.g. transmitter receiver transmission logic reception logic etc. etc. .

One skilled in the art will recognize that the herein described components e.g. operations devices objects and the discussion accompanying them are used as examples for the sake of conceptual clarity and that various configuration modifications are contemplated. Consequently as used herein the specific exemplars set forth and the accompanying discussion are intended to be representative of their more general classes. In general use of any specific exemplar is intended to be representative of its class and the non inclusion of specific components e.g. operations devices and objects should not be taken limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations are not expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

In some instances one or more components may be referred to herein as configured to configurable to operable operative to adapted adaptable able to conformable conformed to etc. Those skilled in the art will recognize that configured to can generally encompass active state components and or inactive state components and or standby state components unless context requires otherwise.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to claims containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations.

In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that typically a disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms unless context dictates otherwise. For example the phrase A or B will be typically understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

With respect to the appended claims those skilled in the art will appreciate that recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to implement devices and or processes and or systems and thereafter use engineering and or other practices to integrate such implemented devices and or processes and or systems into more comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes and or systems described herein can be integrated into other devices and or processes and or systems via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that examples of such other devices and or processes and or systems might include as appropriate to context and application all or part of devices and or processes and or systems of a an air conveyance e.g. an airplane rocket helicopter etc. b a ground conveyance e.g. a car truck locomotive tank armored personnel carrier etc. c a building e.g. a home warehouse office etc. d an appliance e.g. a refrigerator a washing machine a dryer etc. e a communications system e.g. a networked system a telephone system a Voice over IP system etc. f a business entity e.g. an Internet Service Provider ISP entity such as Comcast Cable Qwest Southwestern Bell etc. or g a wired wireless services entity e.g. Sprint Cingular Nextel etc. etc.

In certain cases use of a system or method may occur in a territory even if components are located outside the territory. For example in a distributed computing context use of a distributed computing system may occur in a territory even though parts of the system may be located outside of the territory e.g. relay server processor signal bearing medium transmitting computer receiving computer etc. located outside the territory .

A sale of a system or method may likewise occur in a territory even if components of the system or method are located and or used outside the territory. Further implementation of at least part of a system for performing a method in one territory does not preclude use of the system in another territory.

In summary numerous benefits have been described which result from employing the concepts described herein. The foregoing description of the one or more embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting to the precise form disclosed. Modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The one or more embodiments were chosen and described in order to illustrate principles and practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the claims submitted herewith define the overall scope.

Various aspects of the subject matter described herein are set out in the following numbered clauses 

1. A computer implemented method comprising receiving by a processor a digital bit stream transforming by the processor the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and providing by the processor the encoded digital bit stream to a transmission system for transmission.

2. The computer implemented method of clause 1 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises applying by the processor an m element vector table to the digital bit stream.

3. The computer implemented method of clause 2 wherein applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises performing by the processor a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

4. The computer implemented method of clause 2 wherein applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises mapping by the processor the m element table to the digital bit stream according to a mapping function.

5. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising employing by the processor the m element vector table to manage at least one of a bit error rate BER realized data throughput bit energy or signal range and any combination thereof to provide optimized performance.

6. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising managing by the processor one or more tasks to enhance data transfer performance to provide an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing digital communications system.

7. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising interleaving by the processor a data vector and the composite channel utilizing the gateway channel and a gateway mask.

8. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising generating by the processor a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated by error correcting code and adding by the processor the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream.

9. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising implementing by the processor at least one of bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to generate blended partitioning for the m element vector table to optimize data transfer.

10. A system comprising a communications interface a processor and a non transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and provide the encoded digital bit stream to the communications interface for transmission.

11. The system of clause 10 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises applying an m element vector table to the digital bit stream.

12. The system of clause 11 wherein applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises performing a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

13. The system of clause 10 wherein the processor is further configured to employ the m element vector table to manage at least one of a bit error rate BER realized data throughput bit energy or signal range and any combination thereof to provide optimized performance.

14. The system of clause 10 wherein the processor is further configured to manage one or more tasks to enhance data transfer performance to provide an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing digital communications system.

15. The system of clause 10 wherein the processor is further configured to interleave a data vector and the composite channel utilizing the gateway channel and a gateway mask.

16. The system of clause 10 wherein the processor is further configured to generate a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated by error correcting code and add the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream.

17. The system of clause 10 wherein the communications interface comprises a radio frequency RF communication system.

18. A non transitory computer readable memory medium configured to store instructions thereon that when loaded by a processor cause the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and provide the encoded digital bit stream to the communications interface for transmission.

19. The non transitory computer readable memory medium of clause 18 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises applying an m element vector table to the digital bit stream.

20. The non transitory computer readable memory medium of clause 19 wherein applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises performing a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

21. The non transitory computer readable memory medium of clause 18 wherein the instructions stored thereon further cause the processor to employ the m element vector table to manage at least one of a bit error rate BER realized data throughput bit energy or signal range and any combination thereof to provide optimized performance.

1. A computer implemented method comprising receiving by a processor a digital bit stream transforming by the processor the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof providing by the processor the encoded digital bit stream to a transmission system for transmission and establishing by the processor signal integrity by utilizing pre coordinated pre distributed information to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair comprises the pre coordinated pre distributed information.

2. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising maintaining by the processor the signal integrity by utilizing the pre coordinated pre distributed information.

3. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising limiting by the processor the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely formatting the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

4. The computer implemented method of clause 1 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises applying by the processor an m element vector table to the digital bit stream.

5. The computer implemented method of clause 4 wherein applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises performing by the processor a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

6. The computer implemented method of clause 4 wherein applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises mapping by the processor the m element table to the digital bit stream according to a mapping function.

7. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising employing by the processor the m element vector table to manage at least one of a bit error rate BER realized data throughput bit energy or signal range and any combination thereof to provide enhanced signal integrity and communication.

8. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising managing by the processor one or more tasks to enhance signal integrity and communication to provide an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing digital communications system.

9. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising interleaving by the processor a data vector and the composite channel utilizing the gateway channel and a gateway mask.

10. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising generating by the processor a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated by error correcting code and adding by the processor the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream.

11. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising implementing by the processor at least one of bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to generate blended partitioning for the m element vector table to enhance signal integrity and communication.

12. A system comprising a communications interface a processor and a non transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof provide the encoded digital bit stream to the communications interface for transmission and establish signal integrity by utilizing pre coordinated pre distributed information to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair comprises the pre coordinated pre distributed information.

13. The computer implemented method of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to maintain the signal integrity by utilizing the pre coordinated pre distributed information.

14. The computer implemented method of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to limit the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely formatting the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

15. The system of clause 12 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises applying an m element vector table to the digital bit stream.

16. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to employ the m element vector table to manage at least one of a bit error rate BER realized data throughput bit energy or signal range and any combination thereof to provide enhanced signal integrity and communication.

17. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to manage one or more tasks to enhance signal integrity and communication to provide an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing digital communications system.

18. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to generate a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated by error correcting code and add the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream.

19. The system of clause 12 wherein the communications interface comprises a bound communication system.

20. The system of clause 12 wherein the communications interface comprises an unbound communication system.

21. A non transitory computer readable memory medium configured to store instructions thereon that when loaded by a processor cause the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof provide the encoded digital bit stream to the communications interface for transmission establish signal integrity by utilizing pre coordinated pre distributed information to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair comprises the pre coordinated pre distributed information maintain the signal integrity by utilizing the pre coordinated pre distributed information and limit the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely formatting the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

1. A computer implemented method comprising receiving by a processor a digital bit stream transforming by the processor the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof providing by the processor the encoded digital bit stream to a transmission system for transmission and enabling by the processor dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures allowing coordinated changes to pre coordinated pre distributed information which were intended to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair is uniquely able to coordinate distribute information to allow continued transmission and receipt of a digital bit with necessary QOS for communication.

2. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising maintaining by the processor dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures allowing coordinated changes to pre coordinated pre distributed information.

3. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures by the processor limiting the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely coordinating changes to the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

4. The computer implemented method of clause 1 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises changing by the processor an m element vector table to be applied to the digital bit stream.

5. The computer implemented method of clause 4 wherein changing and applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises performing by the processor a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

6. The computer implemented method of clause 4 wherein changing and applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises mapping by the processor the m element table to the digital bit stream according to a mapping function.

7. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising employing by the processor changes to the m element vector table to manage at least one of service response time loss signal to noise ratio crosstalk echo interrupts frequency response loudness levels a required bit rate delay jitter packet dropping probability and or bit error rate data rate and delay and dynamically control scheduling priorities other QOS measures known to one skilled in the art and any combination thereof to dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures.

8. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising managing by the processor one or more tasks to enhance QOS dynamically through the use of derived QOS measures to provide an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing digital communications system.

9. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising dynamic changes to interleaving by the processor a data vector and the composite channel utilizing the gateway channel and a gateway mask.

10. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising generating by the processor a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated by evaluating derived measures of QOS and adding by the processor the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream and changing by the processor the additional bits as necessary to maintain the desired QOS for the encoded digital bit stream.

11. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising implementing by the processor at least one of bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to generate blended partitioning for the m element vector table to dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures.

12. A system comprising a communications interface a processor and a non transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof provide the encoded digital bit stream to the communications interface for transmission and enabling by the processor dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures allowing coordinated changes to pre coordinated pre distributed information which were intended to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair is uniquely able to coordinate distribute information to allow continued transmission and receipt of a digital bit with necessary QOS for communication.

13. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures allowing coordinated changes to pre coordinated pre distributed information which were intended to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair.

14. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to limit communication of the coordinated changes to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely formatting the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

15. The system of clause 12 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises communicating changes to an m element vector table to be applied to the digital bit stream.

16. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to employ the m element vector table to manage at least one of service response time loss signal to noise ratio crosstalk echo interrupts frequency response loudness levels a required bit rate delay jitter packet dropping probability and or bit error rate data rate and delay and dynamically control scheduling priorities other QOS measures known to one skilled in the art and any combination thereof to dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures.

17. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to manage one or more tasks to enhance QOS dynamically through the use of derived QOS measures to provide an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing digital communications system.

18. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to generate a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated by evaluating derived measures of QOS and add the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream and change the additional bits as necessary to maintain the desired QOS for the encoded digital bit stream.

19. The system of clause 12 wherein the communications interface comprises a bound communication system.

20. The system of clause 12 wherein the communications interface comprises an unbound communication system.

21. A non transitory computer readable memory medium configured to store instructions thereon that when loaded by a processor cause the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof provide the encoded digital bit stream to the communications interface for transmission establish QOS by utilizing pre coordinated pre distributed information to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair comprises the pre coordinated pre distributed information maintain dynamic control of QOS through the use of derived QOS measures by changing and communicating coordinated distributed information and limit the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely coordinating changes to the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

1. A computer implemented method comprising receiving by a processor a digital bit stream transforming by the processor the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof providing by the processor the encoded digital bit stream to a transmission system for transmission and enabling by the processor authentication through the use of pre coordinated pre distributed information which were intended to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair is uniquely able to coordinate distribute information to allow continued transmission and receipt of a digital bit for communication.

2. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising maintaining by the processor authentication by allowing coordinated changes to pre coordinated pre distributed information.

3. The computer implemented method of clause 1 authentication through the use of pre coordinated pre distributed information by the processor limiting the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely coordinating changes to the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

4. The computer implemented method of clause 1 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises changing by the processor an m element vector table to be applied to the digital bit stream.

5. The computer implemented method of clause 4 wherein changing and applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises performing by the processor a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

6. The computer implemented method of clause 4 wherein changing and applying the m element vector table to the digital bit stream comprises mapping by the processor the m element table to the digital bit stream according to a mapping function.

7. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising authentication of the sender receiver pair by the processor the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely coordinating changes to the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

8. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising managing by the processor one or more tasks to authenticate the sender receiver pair by uniquely coordinating changes to the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

9. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising dynamic changes to interleaving by the processor a data vector and the composite channel utilizing the gateway channel and a gateway mask.

10. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising generating by the processor a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated to enhance and continue authentication of the sender receiver pair and adding by the processor the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream and changing by the processor the additional bits as necessary to maintain the desired authentication of the sender receiver pair.

11. The computer implemented method of clause 1 comprising implementing by the processor at least one of bit position partitioning table partitioning or a combination thereof to generate blended partitioning for the m element vector table to authenticate the sender receiver pair.

12. A system comprising a communications interface a processor and a non transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof provide the encoded digital bit stream to the communications interface for transmission and enabling by the processor authentication through the use of pre coordinated pre distributed information which were intended to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair is uniquely able to coordinate distribute information to allow continued transmission and receipt of a digital bit for communication.

13. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to authenticate the sender receiver pair allowing coordinated changes to pre coordinated pre distributed information which were intended to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair.

14. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to limit communication of the coordinated changes to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely formatting the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

15. The system of clause 12 wherein transforming the digital bit stream comprises communicating changes to an m element vector table to be applied to the digital bit stream.

16. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to employ the m element vector table to manage the authentication of the sender receiver pair by the processor the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely coordinating changes to the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

17. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to manage by the processor one or more tasks to authenticate the sender receiver pair by uniquely coordinating changes to the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

18. The system of clause 12 wherein the processor is further configured to generate a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated to authenticate the sender receiver pair and add the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream and change the additional bits as necessary to maintain authentication of the sender receiver pair.

19. The system of clause 12 wherein the communications interface comprises a bound communication system.

20. The system of clause 12 wherein the communications interface comprises an unbound communication system.

21. A non transitory computer readable memory medium configured to store instructions thereon that when loaded by a processor cause the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof provide the encoded digital bit stream to the communications interface for transmission establish authentication of the sender receiver pair by utilizing pre coordinated pre distributed information to limit the transmission to an intended sender receiver pair wherein the intended sender receiver pair comprises the pre coordinated pre distributed information maintain dynamic control of authentication of the sender receiver pair by changing and communicating coordinated distributed information and limit the transmission to the intended sender and receiver by uniquely coordinating changes to the encoded digital bit stream prior to transmission.

1. A system comprising a network interface a processor and a non transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and provide the encoded digital bit stream to the network interface for transmission.

2. The system of clause 1 wherein the processor is configured to apply an m element vector table to the digital bit stream.

3. The system of clause 2 wherein the processor is configured to perform a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

4. The system of clause 1 wherein the processor is further configured to employ the m element vector table to manage at least one of realized data throughput bit energy or signal range and any combination thereof to provide optimized performance.

5. The system of clause 1 wherein the processor is further configured to manage one or more tasks to enhance data transfer performance to provide an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing information system.

6. The system of clause 1 wherein the processor is further configured to interleave a data vector and the composite channel utilizing the gateway channel and a gateway mask.

7. The system of clause 1 wherein the processor is further configured to generate a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated by error correcting code and add the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream.

11. A non transitory computer readable memory medium configured to store instructions thereon that when loaded by a processor cause the processor to receive a digital bit stream transform the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and provide the encoded digital bit stream to the network interface for transmission.

12. The non transitory computer readable memory medium of clause 11 wherein the instructions stored thereon further cause the processor to apply an m element vector table to the digital bit stream.

13. The non transitory computer readable memory medium of clause 12 wherein the instructions stored thereon further cause the processor to perform a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

14. The non transitory computer readable memory medium of clause 12 wherein the instructions stored thereon further cause the processor to employ the m element vector table to manage at least one of realized data throughput bit energy or signal range and any combination thereof to provide optimized performance.

15. A computer implemented method executable in a network environment the network environment comprising a network interface a processor and a non transient memory medium operatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory medium is configured to store a plurality of instructions configured to program the processor the method comprising receiving by the processor a digital bit stream transforming by the processor the digital bit stream to an encoded digital bit stream wherein the encoded digital bit stream comprises at least one of a gateway channel a composite channel or a data channel and any combination thereof and providing by the processor the encoded digital bit stream to the network interface for transmission.

16. The computer implemented method of clause 15 comprising applying by the processor an m element vector table to the digital bit stream.

17. The computer implemented method of clause 16 comprising performing by the processor a table lookup for the digital bit stream.

18. The computer implemented method of clause 15 comprising employing by the processor the m element vector table to manage at least one of realized data throughput bit energy or signal range and any combination thereof to provide optimized performance.

19. The computer implemented method of clause 15 comprising managing by the processor one or more tasks to enhance data transfer performance and providing by the processor an industry standards agnostic interface to an existing information system.

20. The computer implemented method of clause 15 comprising interleaving by the processor a data vector and the composite channel utilizing the gateway channel and a gateway mask.

21. The computer implemented method of clause 15 comprising generating by the processor a plurality of additional bits wherein the plurality of additional bits are generated by error correcting code and adding by the processor the plurality of additional bits to the encoded digital bit stream.

22. The computer implemented method of clause 15 comprising providing by the processor the encoded digital bit stream to an information system.

