---

title: Wideband unbalanced waveguide power dividers and combiners
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to waveguide dividers and waveguide combiners for application in radar systems, wireless communications, etc. Waveguide dividers-combiners can be manufactured in accordance with custom dimensions, as well as in accordance with waveguide standards such that the input and output ports are of a defined dimension and have a common impedance. Various embodiments are presented which can incorporate one or more septum(s), one or more pairs of septums, an iris, an input matching region, a notch located on the input waveguide arm, waveguide arms having stepped transformer regions, etc. The various divider configurations presented herein can be utilized in high fractional bandwidth applications, e.g., a fractional bandwidth of about 30%, and RF applications in the Ka frequency band (e.g., 26.5-40 GHz).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09343795&OS=09343795&RS=09343795
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09343795
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140728
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 859 384 filed on Jul. 29 2013 and entitled WIDEBAND UNBALANCED WAVEGUIDE POWER DIVIDERS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Routing radio frequency RF signals from a source to an antenna array can involve many power dividers couplers e.g. T splitters to properly feed antenna elements with a desired signal and or signal strength. Two common approaches for such routing utilize printed circuit board type power dividers e.g. microstrip or stripline dividers or waveguide power dividers. Microstrip or stripline dividers are often used in applications that have wideband frequency operation and unbalanced power divisions. However microstrip or stripline dividers can suffer from various signal losses e.g. a high insertion loss which can limit a maximum sensitivity of a communication apparatus that utilizes these types of dividers.

Waveguide dividers are desired due to their ability to be utilized with increased bandwidth in conjunction with low loss properties to facilitate increased system resolution in remote sensing applications and increased data transfer for wireless communications. However wideband unbalanced waveguide power dividers and combiners are not commonly utilized in radar systems wireless communications and other applications as there is little information available in literature regarding the design of such dividers and combiners. Accordingly waveguide dividers are conventionally utilized used in narrowband applications e.g. 5 10 fractional bandwidth which utilize balanced power divisions. Typical unbalanced waveguide power dividers used in the aforementioned applications have a narrow operational bandwidth e.g. less than 2.0 fractional bandwidth .

A number of challenges can be encountered during the design of wideband unbalanced waveguide power dividers where such challenges can include 

b There is minimal information available on how to formulate an unbalanced splitter design and further how to create a design that satisfies requirements regarding return loss insertion loss and or phase balance.

c Conventional coupler designs may be used to achieve desired power splits but these designs have a much larger footprint e.g. 2 or more compared to a balanced waveguide divider whereby the increase in size can be due to coupling through the broad wall of the waveguide for example.

d Conventional design methodologies to fabricate unique unbalanced waveguide power dividers with similar footprints to balanced dividers can be time intensive. For example an impact on an electrical performance by various lengths sizes is not well known and accordingly parametric sweeps of many different waveguide dimensions features are required in electromagnetic modeling tools for each unique divider design.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

The various embodiments presented herein relate to unbalanced waveguide power dividers and power combiners. The waveguide dividers can be utilized in narrowband and wideband applications e.g. in an application requiring high fractional bandwidth. In an aspect the various waveguide dividers presented herein and the associated methodologies of design can result in design times that are faster by an order of magnitude or more over conventional design methods. The resulting designs can meet demanding RF performance requirements e.g. with regard to such parameters as return loss insertion loss phase balance etc.

Further the various embodiments presented herein facilitate design and construction of radar or antenna array systems which are smaller and lighter in comparison with conventional arrays while operating with losses which are also less than those encountered in a conventional system. In an aspect a reduction in operational losses can enable improved system sensitivity.

A plurality of designs are presented where such designs utilize a combination of any of a main septum an iris one or more pair of resonant septums a notched input waveguide arm and various transformer regions such as an input matching section stepped transformers etc. In accordance with the various embodiments presented herein waveguide dividers can be manufactured to satisfy various requirements of waveguide standards. For example waveguide dividers can be fabricated such that the respective sizes e.g. aperture sizes of the input port and output ports are in accordance with a WR 28 standard for Ka band frequencies e.g. 26.5 40 GHz . In another embodiment aperture sizes for the respective ports of a waveguide divider are also customizable and accordingly do not have to comply with a particular waveguide standard.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to waveguide dividers are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

The various embodiments presented herein relate to formation of waveguide dividers for applications requiring high fractional bandwidth operation. Eqn. 1 defines fractional bandwidth FB 

In an aspect a fractional bandwidth of up to about 30 can be desired for operation of an unbalanced antenna array. While the various embodiments presented herein are directed towards Ka band frequencies e.g. 26.5 40 GHz the embodiments are not so limited and can be applied to any desired frequency range and or waveguide standard. Furthermore while the various embodiments are directed towards T junction waveguide power dividers they can also be directed towards T junction waveguide power combiners or a combination thereof.

The various embodiments presented herein relate to an air filled waveguide which can be machined into a standard waveguide block or substrate e.g. an aluminum substrate . In an aspect the various embodiments presented herein can be directed towards an in phase H plane unequal way T junction which can be formed by removing material in the substrate to form a first waveguide arm comprising a first port at one end. Second and third waveguide arms can be formed in a collinear arrangement and respectively comprise second and third ports. Depending upon the fabrication process structures forming any of the first second or third waveguide arms can be formed by material removal e.g. machining or built up by press in brazing bonding soldering or similar fabrication process. The waveguide cavity formed by the first waveguide arm the second waveguide arm and the third waveguide arm can be formed by placing a lid over the machined regions formed in the substrate. In an embodiment a film or layer e.g. aluminum foil can be placed between the substrate and the lid to facilitate sealing of any gap that may occur between the substrate and the lid.

To facilitate understanding of the various embodiments presented herein various desired electrical characteristics of the waveguide power dividers and combiners are now described. Desired characteristics can include 

a Most of the input power is to be transmitted through the waveguide structure indicated by the return loss value S .

b The actual power split engendered by the waveguide structure is to be close to the desired values indicated by the insertion loss values S and S .

c The phase balance is to be zero or alternatively stated the phase progression of the waves from the input port to the output ports is to be approximately the same indicated from the insertion loss phase angle S and angle S .

Further regarding the phase balance a zero degree phase balance can be desired over a wide frequency range as for remote sensing applications a zero degree phase balance facilitates antenna elements to be fed with the same phase.

In an embodiment the respective size and impedance of ports and can be equal and based upon such equality the size and placement of other features which form waveguide divider can be positioned accordingly as further described herein. For example the dimensioning of waveguide divider and other waveguide dividers and presented herein can be based upon the waveguide standard WR 28 which can be utilized when operating in the Ka frequency band e.g. 26.5 40 GHz . Accordingly standard WR 28 specifies inside dimensions or apertures of the ports and to each be 7.112 mm b 3.556 mm h 0.280 0.140 and having a characteristic impedance for the standard e.g. to enable insertion of the various waveguide divider configurations presented herein into antenna systems configured to the WR 28 standard. However as previously mentioned the respective dimensions of the ports and can be of any desired dimension for example in an embodiment b about 7.4 mm and h about 3.7 mm.

With regard to a degree of unbalance a waveguide divider which operates in a balanced manner can be expressed as a 50 50 waveguide divider with an input signal being shared equally between two output ports. However an unbalanced waveguide divider can operate in any division ratio whereby a signal having a magnitude of 100 is divided in an x y ratio of imbalance whereby x and y are non equal values that add to 100 . For example in an embodiment a waveguide divider can operate in a 64.5 35.5 ratio which can be considered to be in a moderate degree of unbalance . In another embodiment an unbalanced waveguide divider can operate in an 83.1 16.9 manner which can be considered to be in a high degree of unbalance . It is to be appreciated that while various degrees of balancing are presented herein the various embodiments are applicable to any degree of balancing from 50 50 balanced through to about 100 0 severely unbalanced . It is to be appreciated that in some applications multiple unbalanced waveguide power dividers with unique power divisions can be cascaded together to form beam forming networks.

A number of features can be appropriately positioned and sized to achieve the desired degree of signal unbalance. As shown in the embodiment presented in a first feature an input matching section e.g. the shaded region also known as a transformer or a transformer region can be positioned about a centerline c whereby centerline c can be positioned relative to a midpoint of the first port for example distances wand wcan be of equal length about centerline c. Accordingly the input matching section can be positioned offset to the centerline c such that distance wis different to a distance w e.g. distance wis less than or greater than distance w .

In an aspect adjustment of the position of the input matching section about the centerline c can affect the reactive nature of a junction J between the waveguide arms and . In another aspect adjustment of the position of the input matching section about the centerline c can adjust the input impedance at the input port to a value that is useable with regard to the desired characteristic impedances of input port and output ports and e.g. the characteristic impedances of ports and are equal to satisfy a waveguide standard . In another aspect the relative positional offset of input matching section e.g. length wrelative to w can also affect the signal power split e.g. a first signal portion and a second signal portion between the waveguide arm and the waveguide arm with the offset properties. For the example from a field propagation viewpoint with the configuration presented in where w w more signal power is directed out of the output port .

Further a septum e.g. a main septum can be incorporated into the divider to further split the input signal into the first signal portion and the second signal portion. In an embodiment the septum can be placed on the centerline c of the first port . In another embodiment either or both of the input matching section and or the septum can be offset from the centerline c. The septum can have a length of L whereby the length Lcan be customized. The septum can be utilized to tune out capacitance at the junction J.

An iris e.g. a narrowed region can be incorporated into the waveguide divider . As shown in the particular embodiment presented in the iris can result in the profile of one arm e.g. the waveguide arm to be configured different to the profile of the other arm e.g. the waveguide arm . The iris can have a size L L. Further the iris can be placed adjacent to an edge of the input matching section . In an aspect when the dimension Lis small the iris can act as an inductive septum. Incorporation of the iris can result in a transformation of an impedance formulated from waveguide dimensions for waveguide arm to a different impedance. For example the iris can cause an input into the third port e.g. when looking at the third port from the junction J to have a feature of a waveguide with a high characteristic impedance e.g. no reactance at a desired frequency accordingly an impedance is transformed to a higher impedance. In an aspect with the configuration presented in waveguide divider a greater amount or magnitude of signal power can be directed along waveguide arm compared to the amount or magnitude of signal power directed along waveguide arm resulting in the power unbalance.

It is to be appreciated that while a higher equivalent impedance may be seen into waveguide arm a higher power split can be achieved based upon the offset design of the input matching section and the septum as previously described. The input matching section the septum and the size and place of iris can interact as follows with regard to signal splitting and control. Essentially the power can be split preferentially by guiding electromagnetic waves to one waveguide arm e.g. waveguide arm relative to the other waveguide arm e.g. waveguide . With an offset e.g. w w more signaling can be directed to the waveguide arm where the w dimension is largest in the input matching section . In the embodiment presented in wis larger and hence more signal power is directed out of port . The septum can also facilitate the power division across the waveguide arms.

In an aspect to compensate for differences in a field propagation path length between the two output waveguide arms and the iris can act to increase a signaling phase velocity. Thus the iris can act to correct phase balance experienced between the waveguide arms and . However incorporating the iris can introduce issues with achieving a desired power split between the waveguide arms and .

An effect of the iris is that iris can transform a waveguide impedance formed by the waveguide port dimensions at port to a larger impedance when Lis approximately one fourth the waveguide wavelength e.g. acting as a quarter wavelength transformer . In an embodiment where Lis close to being one fourth the wavelength over an analyzed frequency band the input impedance from the junction J to port can appear higher than looking into port . In an aspect owing to a greater amount of electromagnetic waves can propagate out a waveguide arm which has a smaller input impedance as seen from the junction J for a symmetric structure asymmetry between the input matching section and the septum can be utilized to influence the power flow through the waveguide divider . The input matching section and the septum can be designed to facilitate a greater amount of signal power is directed into port despite a higher input impedance as shown in the divider .

Thus it can be seen that many of these design features are coupled to achieve the desired electrical performance e.g. return loss insertion loss phase balance etc. 

As previously mentioned power division e.g. power unbalance can be controlled in waveguide divider by any of a a degree of offset of the input matching section e.g. respective distances wand wrelative to centerline c b a degree of offset of the septum and or c adjusting a length and or width of the iris .

Further an input return loss for the waveguide divider can be controlled by adjusting the respective length s and or respective width s of the input matching section and or the septum .

Furthermore the phase imbalance of waveguide divider can be controlled by adjusting the length and or width of the iris .

Presenting exemplary results for a waveguide divider constructed in accordance with the various features presented above for waveguide divider a return loss 20 dB insertion losses within 0.1 dB of their target values and a phase balance of 10 can all be achieved over a 33 38 GHz operating range.

In an aspect as illustrated in incorporation of one or more input match sections e.g. an input match section into a layout comprising multiple waveguide dividers can result in available space reduction between two adjacent waveguide dividers where such space reduction can occur over both a length and a width of respective waveguide dividers. Hence as shown input match sections IMS 1 3 can take up real estate with regard to size and placement of three waveguide dividers and . Accordingly for example where space limitations dictate it may be desirable to form one or more waveguide dividers that are not limited in size by a respective input match section s .

Turning to a waveguide divider is illustrated. is a plan or top view while is a 3D oblique or perspective view. The waveguide divider comprises two output waveguide arms and that have respective ports and . The waveguide divider also includes an input waveguide arm that has an input port wherein the input waveguide arm connects the input port with the two output waveguide ports and of the output waveguide arms and respectively.

Comparing waveguide divider with waveguide divider waveguide divider does not include an input matching section e.g. as compared with the input matching section of waveguide divider or an iris e.g. as compared with the iris of design . However waveguide divider utilizes a pair of septums and also referred to as a pair of resonance septums to control signaling in the output port whereby septums and can constitute an iris in waveguide arm . In another embodiment a main septum can be incorporated into waveguide divider . In a further embodiment a notch can be incorporated into waveguide divider .

The pair of septums and can act to constrict electromagnetic wave propagation to the output port compared with the unconstricted wave propagation which can occur at the output port whereby the constriction can cause signal unbalance between output port and output port . For example the septums and can reduce the width of the waveguide arm to a width w in comparison to the width of the waveguide arm being non constricted at a width w. The septums and can be placed at a desired distance wfrom a junction of the waveguide arm and the input waveguide arm as indicated by the junction line J. Further septums and can have respective lengths Land L which in conjunction with distance wcan be utilized to form a waveguide divider having a desired signal unbalance with a high level of bandwidth.

A septum also referred to as a main septum can be incorporated into the waveguide divider to divide a signal input via input port and waveguide arm e.g. to achieve unbalanced power division. In an embodiment the septum can be placed on the centerline c of the input port whereby wand ware equal. In another embodiment the septum can be offset from the centerline c. The septum can be configured with a length of L.

Further a notch also known as a step can be incorporated into the waveguide divider . As shown in the notch can be located in the waveguide arm of the input port . In an aspect the notch can be utilized to tune out an input inductance occurring at a certain distance away from input port . The notch can be placed at a location nearest a junction of waveguide arm with respect to waveguide arms and where the input impedance can appear to be inductive which in comparison with waveguide divider the notch can operate as e.g. a capacitance notch and replace the input match section which allows for a reduction in size of the waveguide divider . The notch can have a height of L a width of L and positioned a distance Lfrom the junction of waveguide arm with respect to either of waveguide arms and or waveguide arms . In an embodiment the position and size of the notch can be selected in accordance with any suitable data e.g. a Smith chart. Accordingly the size and the location of the notch can be selected to define an operational frequency e.g. a central frequency of the waveguide divider .

With regard to design of a waveguide divider which includes a pair of resonance septums also referred to as a septum divider e.g. waveguide divider in comparison with a waveguide divider which utilizes an input matching section also referred to as an input match divider e.g. waveguide divider a number of benefits can be derived. As previously mentioned an aspect of the input match divider is one or more interactions can occur at the waveguide junction e.g. J and the input matching section e.g. input matching section . For example an interaction can occur as a function of the width of the input matching section. Accordingly with an input match divider adjusting one design parameter can lead to a plurality of other performance requirements being affected at the same time. For example adjustment of a power division in an input match divider can be controlled by offsetting the input matching section e.g. adjusting widths wand wabout centerline c of the input match divider. However offsetting the input match section to adjust the power division can also result in a change in of any of the return loss of the waveguide divider the waveguide divider insertion loss and or the phase balance for the waveguide divider. Similarly adjustment of the iris e.g. iris and or the septum e.g. septum can result in accompanying changes in any of the power division the return loss the insertion loss and or the phase balance of the waveguide divider. In an aspect the interrelation between the plurality of design parameters can result in a complicated design process.

Removal of the input matching section and or the iris from a waveguide divider e.g. per waveguide divider can enable a reduction in the complexity of designing a waveguide divider. In an aspect the ports and should be the same size and have the same impedance per the waveguide standard and accordingly it is desired that unequal power division is achieved without changing the size or impedance of the ports. Designing with the following features achieves such a requirement. The main septum can operate as an inductive feature and accordingly can tune out a degree of the capacitative nature of the junction between waveguide arms and . The pair of resonance septums and can act as an inductive septum or inductive iris whereby the pair of resonance septums and can be placed at a position on the waveguide arm such that an input into output port e.g. viewing along X into port can appear as a waveguide with a high input impedance at a desired frequency.

Presenting exemplary results for a waveguide divider constructed in accordance with the various features presented above for waveguide divider a return loss 13.5 dB insertion losses within 1.0 dB or better from their target values and a phase balance of 15 can all be achieved over a 33 38 GHz operating range. It is to be appreciated that when comparing values presented in with values presented in the degree of unbalance is less for waveguide divider e.g. 64.5 35.5 than the waveguide divider 83.1 16.9 . It is to be further appreciated that if the frequency band of operation was reduced or narrowed then a waveguide divider having a smaller dimensional size e.g. footprint can be fabricated.

At a length and placement for a main septum to be located in the waveguide divider can be determined. As previously mentioned the main septum can be placed opposite and centrally with respect to the input port to divide a signal being input into the waveguide divider via the input port. In an aspect central placement of the main septum with respect to the input port can separate the input signal into two signals of equal strength.

At a distance can be identified at which a pair of septums e.g. a pair of resonance septums can be placed on the arm of the second output port. The distance can be determined based upon minimization of one or more resonances which may occur over a desired bandwidth of operation e.g. 33 38 GHz .

At the length of the respective septums in the pair of septums can be adjusted to enable a desired response being achieved. For example with reference to the second output port a response S can be achieved. In an aspect the septums can cause a throttling of signaling passing through and accordingly the septums can be utilized to control the power split between the first output and the second output.

At the location of the pair of septums with respect to a junction of the second arm to the arm of the input port can be adjusted. Adjusting the location of the pair of septums can further adjust the S response. For example the S response can be further tailored to a desired operational frequency e.g. a central frequency in the operational range of 33 38 GHz .

At the length of the main septum can be adjusted to engender an adjustment in a response at the input port e.g. S and also adjustment in a response at the second port e.g. S . For example adjusting responses S and S such that they are at the central frequency.

The respective adjustment of the length of the main septum at e.g. an associated adjustment of the responses S and S can cause an adjustment in the S response. At a determination can be made as to whether the respective responses S S and or S are at a desired value for example a central value in the frequency range of 33 38 GHz. In response to a determination that the any of S S and or S are not at a desired value the methodology can return to steps and as required to adjust the S S and or S responses.

At in response to a determination at that the S S and or S responses are at a desired value the input port can be de embedded. Further optimization of S may be achieved by incorporating a capacitive notch into the arm of the input port. The location and size of the capacitive notch can further adjust the frequency of operation of the waveguide divider to a desired frequency of operation.

Turning to a waveguide divider is illustrated. The waveguide divider comprises two output waveguide arms and that have respective ports and . The waveguide divider also includes an input waveguide arm that has an input port wherein the input waveguide arm connects the input port with the two output waveguide ports and of the output waveguide arms and respectively. In comparison with waveguide dividers and the respective arms of waveguide divider have stepped profiles or transformers. In an aspect utilizing stepped profiles can enable operation of the design at a wide bandwidth and or frequency range.

Waveguide divider can include a main septum that can be placed opposite the input port e.g. Wand Wabout centerline c. As shown in a signal unbalance can be provided by creating a disparity between the size and number of transformer regions s sin the respective waveguide arms and . As shown in a stepped region can have a greater thickness t and accordingly a greater volume in relation to the thickness tof a stepped region . The stepped region is an initial step in the waveguide arm while the stepped region is an initial step in the waveguide arm . In an embodiment thicknesses tand tcan be determined with respect to the thickness tof the input step of the input port . As shown in t

As further shown in as well as the respective waveguide arms and having a stepped profile the width of each step can be sized to be larger than a preceding step e.g. for the waveguide arms and and smaller than a preceding step e.g. for the waveguide arm . For example as shown on a first step slocated adjacent to a junction of the waveguide arm and the waveguide arm can have a width d. The next adjacent step s in the waveguide arm can have a width d while the next adjacent step s can have a width d. As shown as the waveguide arm is traversed each step can have a larger width than the previous step e.g. d

Further as shown in the respective steps forming the junction J can have different widths. For example step can have a width e step can have a width e and step can have a width e where each of the widths can be of a different width to another width or of the same width as another width. Furthermore while not shown in the respective length of each step and can also be of any respectively desired dimension. Accordingly the respective steps and can be sized to facilitate a respective required size with regard to thickness and width.

Furthermore a profile for each of the waveguide arms and can be determined. As previously mentioned to satisfy a waveguide standard the size and impedance of the ports and are configured in accordance with the waveguide standard. Hence with the size of the ports and being known e.g. per WR 28 port dimensions are 7.112 mm 3.556 mm each waveguide arm can have stepped portions transformers defined such that a profile of each waveguide arm steps from the size of the initial step e.g. steps and or the final step e.g. step along the length of the respective waveguide to the location and size of the respective port e.g. ports and . With regard to designing the profile for each waveguide arm the stepped transformers are required to transition from one waveguide cross section to another waveguide cross section e.g. s s s s s . The stepped regions s scan have respective lengths r r per . As shown in the transformers can be binomial to achieve wide bandwidth operation while engendering low ripple effects. Other transformer configurations can be utilized such as Chebyshev Klopfenstein etc.

A subsequent design stage as shown in can involve the integration of the respective waveguides as determined in conjunction with to achieve final design of the waveguide divider .

With regard to designing the junction J and also the various transformers with reference to equation 1 defines the impedance of a TE10 mode in an air filled waveguide 

where Zis the desired characteristic impedance f is the frequency a is the waveguide width e.g. any of d d or d. . . b is the waveguide height e.g. any of respective t t or t. . . is the free space permeability and is the free space permittivity. In an aspect waveguide height b can have a greater effect on impedance than waveguide width a. As previously mentioned Zcan be based on a waveguide standard for example WR 28. Further Zcan relate to the impedance of an input output port as well as an impedance for a particular stepped transformer in a waveguide arm.

As shown in the respective stepped sections s s s s and s can be tuned e.g. as a function of height width and or length to mitigate and or minimize any undesired effects such as waveguide transition effects waveguide capacitive effects etc. In an aspect the undesired effects can be parasitic in nature and hence reduce the operational efficiency of a waveguide divider. As shown in respective impedances Z Zcan be obtained for each respective step S S with Zbeing obtained at step S. In an aspect the impedance Z when looking into the waveguide structure can be of a magnitude Z which can be achieved based upon a design e.g. height width and length of the transformer sections s s per the example in .

Accordingly waveguide divider enables high RF performance over a wide bandwidth. Adjustment of size and RF performance of waveguide divider can be achieved by addition or removal of one or more transformers e.g. any of stepped sections s s s s and s . Feature influences on the s parameter responses e.g. any of S S and or S of the respective waveguide arms of waveguide divider are well understood whereby such features can be changed relatively independently of each other. Accordingly owing to the feature independence and knowledge of how such feature change can affect RF performance waveguide dividers can be efficiently designed and fabricated.

At a size and location of a septum can be determined whereby the size and location can enable unbalanced dividing of an RF signal by the waveguide divider.

At the respective dimensions of stepped transformers at the junction of the input waveguide arm and the two output waveguide arms can be determined. In an aspect divide the input signal in an unbalanced manner between the two output waveguide arms a stepped transformer forming a first stepped region in a first output waveguide can have a greater thickness than the thickness of a stepped transformer forming a first stepped region in a second output waveguide.

At for each waveguide arm a number and size of stepped transformers can be determined to form each waveguide from its initial step at the junction through to the respective output and input ports. As previously mentioned compliance with a waveguide standard requires the respective output and input ports to be of a particular size and impedance. Accordingly by utilizing a sequence of stepped transformers each waveguide arm can transition from an initial dimension and impedance at the waveguide junction to a final dimension and impedance at the respective port.

At final tuning can be performed whereby the determined septum e.g. width length placement the respective transformers at the junction the respective transformers in each waveguide arm and the final desired port dimensions etc. can be integrated into a single design. Tuning can comprise of tuning dimensions of respective stepped transformers and any other dimension comprising a waveguide divider.

At a waveguide divider can be fabricated which combines the determined septum the respective transformers at the junction the respective transformers in each waveguide arm and the final desired port dimensions.

It is to be appreciated that while the foregoing embodiments are presented with regard to application as a waveguide power divider the same embodiments can also be directed towards waveguide power combiner applications. Hence the various dividers structures and can be considered to be a respective waveguide divider combiner. Accordingly while respective ports and are presented as being output ports with associated waveguide arms when utilized as a waveguide power combiner the respective ports can function as input ports. Similarly when presented as a waveguide power combiner any of respective ports and can operate as output ports. Hence with reference to when waveguide divider operates as a waveguide combiner a first signal can be input at port and a second signal can be input at the first signal and second signal can combine at the stepped regions and with a third signal being output at port . In this reversed embodiment the waveguide arms and can be considered to be input waveguide arms and is an output waveguide arm. In an aspect when operating as a waveguide combiner a first waveguide port e.g. can be configured to receive a first receive signal and a second waveguide port e.g. can be configured to receive a second receive signal. In an aspect the first receive signal and second receive signal can be in phase and further can be of any suitable frequency band.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

