---

title: Promoting time-based content through social networking systems
abstract: Time-based media is distributed and promoted in a social networking environment. Accounts of a social networking system author social media content items (SMCIs) from which a social networking system infers relevance of content to users of those accounts. Content distributors submit time-based media content to the social networking system, which creates distributor SMCIs containing the time-based media content. Accounts are identified to receive distributor SMCIs based on SMCIs previously authored by those accounts as well as identifying information and the subject of the SMCI. Content promoters may add promotional material to distributor SMCIs, which the social networking service sends to additional accounts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565245&OS=09565245&RS=09565245
owner: Twitter, Inc.
number: 09565245
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140312
---
This application claims the priority or U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 908 457 filed Nov. 25 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Online social media services such as social networking systems and content sharing platforms provide an environment for discussing time based media TBM content. Accounts may discuss TBM content posted by other accounts through social media content items SMCIs . These SMCIs may be indirectly associated with TBM content about news events television shows movies sporting events or concerts. However entities that create and distribute TBM content may not know which accounts are interested in the TBM content. Content distributors and promoters may reach a target audience indirectly through broadcasting but they lack a mechanism to send supplemental TBM content to the target audience directly.

The Figures and the following description relate to embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One embodiment is disclosed of a system method and computer readable storage medium to distribute and or promote time based media TBM content through a social networking system. Generally the social networking system SNS receives account information as well as social media content items SMCIs authored by accounts. The SNS analyzes the information and the SMCIs to determine topics of interest to the account. During the airing of specific instances of TBM content TBM content distributors author SMCIs identifying the currently airing TBM content and in some cases including or linking to clips from the currently airing TBM content. These distributor SMCIs are intended to promote the currently airing TBM content so that users of SNS accounts will be enticed to alter what they are doing to experience the currently airing TBM content. The SNS is configured to identify potential recipients for these SMCIs. Additionally content promoters may send promotional information to the SNS to modify the distributor SMCIs to include the promotional information. These modified SMCIs are similarly sent to interested SNS authors.

The disclosed embodiments beneficially allow for targeted publication of SMCIs to social network accounts that are interested in receiving the SMCIs. Inferring that a user of a social network account is viewing TBM content based on SMCIs enables delivery of additional TBM content relevant to the concurrently viewed TBM content. Content promoters may leverage the inferred information from the SNS to deliver promotional information to more audiences that are more likely to find the promotion relevant. Combining distributed TBM content with promotional information incentivizes users of social network accounts to view and otherwise interact with SMCIs containing TBM content. SMCIs sent by the SNS on behalf of content promoters deliver relevant TBM content to social network accounts that otherwise may not receive this TBM content.

TBM content forms the basis of many interactions between authors of SMCIs and the SNS. TBM content includes media items having a time based component such as broadcast television videos animations audio recordings musical instrument digital instrument MIDI sequences and advertisements. Example TBM content includes a highlight from a sports event a clip from a television program and an excerpt of a radio show. TBM content contains images and text e.g. as part of a preview of TBM content or a reference to access TBM content indirectly associated with the SMCI. TBM content may offer interactive experiences for an account user e.g. a video game an advertisement that prompts a viewer to choose from multiple possible advertisements . TBM content can be obtained from a variety of sources such as local or network stores as well as directly from capture devices such as cameras video recorders microphones and live broadcasts. It is anticipated that other types of TBM content within the scope of the disclosed embodiments will be developed in the future e.g. 3D media holographic presentations immersive media and so forth .

The content distributor disseminates TBM content through network to any agent configured to receive it including the SNS accounts CDNs and content promoters . TBM content may be provided through network or outside it. For example a content distributor broadcasts TBM content over television cable television satellite television radio satellite radio. A content distributor may stream TBM content over the network . Some TBM content may be multicast to individuals. For example a content distributor maintains TBM content on a computer server and transmits TBM content to requesting client devices over a network . The content distributor may own the content e.g. a baseball league that distributes broadcasts of baseball games through a baseball television network . In an embodiment the content distributor distributes the content on behalf of another entity that owns the content. For example a basketball league may own the rights to broadcast basketball games but sells the distribution rights to a broadcast television network that acts as a content distributor .

The SNS includes social networks blogs news media forums user groups etc. These systems generally provide a plurality of social network accounts with the ability to communicate and interact with other accounts of the system. Social network accounts also referred to as authors can typically author various social media content items SMCIs such as posts videos photos links status updates blog entries tweets profiles and the like. SMCIs may refer to TBM content e.g. TV shows advertisements or other SMCIs e.g. other posts pages associated with TV shows or advertisements and SMCIs allow authors to engage in discussions games online events and other participatory services.

The social network account refers to both the human user accessing TBM and interacting with SNS information as well as the client device used to perform those actions. Exemplary client devices include a tablet A a computer B a radio C a television D and a mobile device E. In one embodiment the content distributor acts as a social network account by uploading or providing access to TBM content to the SNS and other accounts via a SMCI. Similarly content promoters may also act as a social network account by uploading or providing access to additional promotional information that is incorporated into distributor created SMCIs and provided to other accounts .

A computer B is a device having a non transitory computer readable storage medium that stores instructions and a processor to execute those instructions. The computer B may have additional components to interface with the network to display TBM content to the social network account and to receive input from the social network account . For example the computer B may communicate using an Ethernet or WiFi connection. The computer B may have a liquid crystal or light emitting diode display as well as a pointing device e.g. a mouse a touchpad and an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard . The tablet A has many of the features of a computer B and in some embodiments incorporates a touch sensitive screen. The mobile device E may comprise one or more components of the computer B and may contain components to communicate over a cellular network including voice communication and data transfer e.g. 4G .

A radio C receives broadcast TBM content using a receiver and transducer to produce audio signals. A television D may receive TBM content through broadcast signals or another network and present audio and visual information to the social network account . In an embodiment the radio C or television D contains components of a computer D e.g. a smart radio a smart television .

The content promoter owns promotional information that they wish to disseminate. The content promoter may view or access TBM content and seek to add promotional information e.g. advertisements commercials announcements digital coupons to the TBM content and or to SMCIs authored by the distributor that reference or include TBM content indirectly associated with the SMCI. The content promoter may own the promotional information or the content promoter may be a separate entity working on behalf of the owner of promotional information e.g. an external advertiser . For example a movie studio may want to promote an action movie to male adults. The movie studio contracts with an advertising agency acting as content promoter to create a commercial about the action movie. The advertising agency identifies that viewers of basketball games are likely to enjoy the action movie so the advertising agency contracts with at least one of the SNS and or the basketball distributor acting as content distributor to place promotional content alongside the basketball distributor s content. This may include placing a commercial in basketball TBM content directly as well as placing promotional information in a SMCI authored by the basketball distributor.

The network comprises a means of transmitting information between entities using both wireless and wired means. For example a network includes wide area and local area networks such as electromagnetic broadcasting systems satellite networks cellular networks fiber optic networks cable networks and the Internet. The network may include multiple networks transmitting information with analog signals digital signals or a combination thereof.

The content delivery network CDN receives stores and distributes SNS content TBM content and promotional information across network using servers distributed across multiple data centers located in different geographical locations. A content delivery network decreases delivery times for data by decreasing the distance between an account and the data center transmitting the data. The servers of a content delivery network split traffic and face lower processing demands than a central repository of data does. Additionally or alternatively the individual agents may maintain their own stores of data and distribute data themselves rather than relying on external CDNs .

The account data store stores information regarding accounts of the SNS . Examples of stored data include identifying information such as a user name a password one or more profile images a user location an associated website a biography an email address a phone number content preferences privacy settings demographic information account associations with other accounts of the SNS and associations with other social networking systems. Content preferences include interests or preferred topics or genres for the account as explicitly provided by the account or as inferred from their authored SMCIs. In an embodiment content distributors or content promoters are themselves accounts of the SNS and thus have corresponding entries in the account data store .

In one embodiment the account data store contains connection information forming a connection graph. The graph may contain unidirectional and or bidirectional connections. For example an account may follow a source account and is therefore subscribed to receive messages from the source account. In this example graph data associated with the account indicates a unidirectional connection to the source account. As a second example two accounts may connect with each other forming a bidirectional connection. In this second example each of the two accounts receives messages published by the other account.

The account data store logs account actions on the SNS . Example account actions in the SNS that are logged include adding a connection to another account authoring a SMCI sending a SMCI to another account and reading a SMCI from another account. The account data store logs a date and time corresponding to a logged action. The account data store may include logged actions from an external social networking system associated with the account. These logged account actions may be used to determine relevance of TBM content or a SMCI to a social network account . For example a social network account authors a SMCI that mentions a content topic. The action is logged and the relevance module infers that the mentioned content topic is relevant to the account. The relevance module stores the association between the mentioned topic and the SMCI author in the account data store .

The account data store additionally contains relevance data used to estimate relevance of TBM content or a SMCI to a social network account . The relevance module determines relevance of a content topic to an account and stores this data in the account data store . For example stored data indicates an account s attitudes towards instances of TBM content such as a broadcast sports game from a particular team an episode in a science fiction adventure series or a nightly newscast. The stored data also indicates an account s attitudes towards a content topic such as baseball Alec Baldwin or puppies for example. The data may additionally indicate that particular topics are relevant to various aggregations of accounts having one or more similar or identical characteristics e.g. particular demographic groupings of social network accounts .

The content item store contains entries relating to SMCIs that a social network account has authored and submitted to the SNS for publication. These SMCIs may be sent to or accessed by other accounts using the content publishing module depending on publication and privacy settings of those other accounts. When a SMCI is indirectly associated with TBM content the corresponding entry in the content item store contains a reference to the associated TBM content. In an embodiment the content item store also stores a text or image preview associated with TBM content that is indirectly associated with or included in individual SMCIs.

The TBM content store contains TBM content itself and or references to TBM content stored elsewhere e.g. on a CDN . The TBM content stored in the TBM content store is submitted by social network accounts some of which may be content distributors . Some of the stored TBM content may be promotional information. The TBM content store may store metadata about the TBM content such as a title a description a content source one or more content topics and distribution metadata. Metadata associated with TBM content may be received through the social network user interface and the content distributor interface . Metadata may be retrieved from an external database e.g. an electronic programming guide a media database a marketing demographics database a database a content distributor has provided to the SNS

Content topics include a genre e.g. sports comedy drama a subgenre e.g. football sketch comedy crime drama an event e.g. a news event a sporting event a holiday an auction a personality e.g. an athlete an actor a character a celebrity a politician or an entity e.g. a sports team a corporation a non profit a government agency a location e.g. a sports venue a restaurant a town a region a country a natural geographical feature or objects e.g. an animal a plant a food a machine .

Distribution metadata may include distribution channels e.g. broadcast channels cable channels satellite channels radio stations websites along with corresponding geographic distribution locations and airing times dates. Distribution metadata may include target or anticipated audience information such as demographic and or geographic profiles broken down by distribution channel.

For example a television clip in the TBM content store may have associated distribution metadata about networks on which the television clip was aired or is airing as well as airing times and geographical locations. The example television clip may have additional distribution method metadata about Internet distribution including websites overall popularity popularity among different demographic groups and popularity in different geographical regions for example. If the television clip shows a football game example associated content topics include sports a genre football a subgenre the football game an event athlete names coach names and announcer names personalities and team names entities . The example football game television clip may include additional metadata such as statistics and scoring information associated with the athletes the venue and the football game. If the television clip shows a television drama for example content topics includes the drama s characters actors director and writers personalities as well as the television network and the studio that produced the television clip entities . Example distribution metadata may include broadcasting times and channels as well as demographic information associated with previous airings of the television drama. One or more CDNs may provide at least part of the functionality of the TBM content store in one embodiment.

The relevance module determines the relevance of TBM content to particular social network accounts . To make determinations of relevance the relevance module accesses topics determined to be of interest to SNS accounts and cross correlates them with topics tagged as associated with TBM content. For example if the relevance module determines that an account has authored SMCIs about bumblebees it determines that future SMCIs and TBM content about bumblebees are relevant to the account. As another example the relevance module may determine that an account is interested in Nicholas Cage because the account has interacted with SMCIs containing TBM content featuring Nicholas Cage. The relevance module may also consider graph data to determine relevance. For example if an account is following source accounts similar to other accounts that are inferred to be interested in a topic then that account is inferred to also be interested in the topic.

In addition to relevance based on information stored regarding the account the relevance module may also determine relevance based on temporal factors. For example suppose an account has authored SMCIs about po boy sandwiches most frequently around the middle of the day. The relevance module might infer that po boy sandwiches are most relevant to the account around lunchtime so the targeting module sends SMCIs about sandwiches to the account before or during lunchtime. As another example if an account authors SMCIs about football on fall and winter Sundays then the relevance module may determine that football related content is most relevant to the account on Sundays during the fall and winter. Alternately or additionally the relevance module determines when football is most relevant to an account based on football schedules accessed through the web server e.g. accessing an electronic program guide . As another example suppose an account authors SMCIs that mention a television comedy. The relevance module determines that the television comedy is relevant to the account. Using a television schedule the relevance module notes that the television comedy has increased relevance to the account during a broadcast of the comedy in the account s geographic market.

The content publishing module sends SMCIs authored by social network accounts . The SMCIs may be indirectly associated with TBM content from the TBM content store . In one embodiment the content publishing module identifies accounts to receive SMCIs based on graph data indicating unidirectional connections of the author. For example the content publishing module identifies accounts to receive a SMCI because those accounts are subscribed to the SMCI s author. In the same or in a different embodiment the content publishing module may allow the social network account to determine what other accounts receive the SMCI. The account may specify as few accounts as a single account to receive the SMCI. The content publishing module further allows the SMCI author to associate the SMCI with one or more content topics.

In another embodiment the content publishing module sends SMCIs authored by a content distributor or a content promoter . The content publishing module interfaces with the targeting module to identify potential recipients of a SMCI. For example if an author of the SMCI is a content distributor or promoter the author may request that the SMCI be sent to all accounts that find the topic relevant based on the determination of the relevance module . The author of the SMCI may further specify a subset of accounts that are interested in one or more specified topics e.g. a subset based on geography and or demographics . The content publishing module may be configured to send SMCIs to social network accounts that have a determined interest in the content topics associated with the SMCI. Depending on privacy settings of the account the content publishing module may also post the SMCI on a publicly accessible webpage at the discretion of the SMCI author. The content publishing module may send the SMCI as part of a message stream structured by the social network user interface.

The targeting module infers a social network account s interest in viewing a SMCI containing TBM content. The targeting module combines data in the account data store and TBM content store with external data accessed through the web server . Based on determining an account s interest in a SMCI containing TBM content the targeting module determines whether to send the SMCI to the account. The targeting module receives SMCI information from the promoter interface but in an alternate embodiment the targeting module receives information from the content distributor interface or social network user interface . For example the targeting module receives a SMCI containing TBM content about a football game. The targeting module determines that Peyton Manning is playing in a broadcast football game so the targeting module retrieves accounts that are interested in Peyton Manning from the account data store . The targeting module determines accounts that are interested in Peyton Manning and multicasts the SMCI to those accounts. The targeting module may consider graph data in determining an account s interest. For example if an account is identified to receive a SMCI containing TBM content the targeting module may consider accounts subscribed to that account to also receive the SMCI.

The social network user interface provides a user interface for viewing and authoring SMCIs that is accessible via client devices.

The content distributor interface provides similar functionality to the social network user interface but provides a content distributor additional functionality for SMCI generation. In one embodiment the content distributor interface is configured to receive one or more streams of TBM content. A content distributor creates an account through the content distributor interface which can be configured to associate one or more live streams of TBM content e.g. a television broadcast with the account e.g. in response to an account selection . The content distributor interface can be configured to present a visual representation of the stream to an account and to receive a selection of one or more portions of the stream from the account. The content distributor interface then constructs a SMCI and associates the selected portion of the stream with the SMCI along with optionally additional input from the account e.g. a message caption description etc. . The content distributor interface then sends the distributor SMCI through the content publishing module or sends the SMCI to another social network for distribution. The content distributor interface is further configured to suggesting content promoters that are likely to promote the content distributors TBM content.

The content promoter interface provides similar functionality to the social network user interface but provides a content promoter additional functionality for identifying SMCIs to promote. The content promoter interface suggests SMCIs containing TBM for the content promoter to promote. The suggestion interface uses the content promoter s expressed preferences topic information from the TBM content store and data from the account data store to determine the SMCIs that the content promoter may be interested in promoting.

A content promoter may select SMCIs containing TBM content and modify them through the content promoter interface . The content promoter may modify a description of the SMCI modify the TBM content e.g. selecting a segment of TBM content adding promotional TBM content and add an image to the SMCI e.g. a logo a banner advertisement .

The content promoter interface further provides a content promoter with options to select social network accounts to receive the promoted SMCI. In one embodiment in one embodiment the content promoter interface grants access to enhanced analytic information e.g. demographic breakdowns of account interactions with SMCIs promoted by the content promoter . The content promoter uses this information to select groups to receive the promoted SMCI e.g. based on inferred interest demographics geography or a combination thereof .

The web server links the SNS to the network and other agents coupled thereto and is one means for doing so. The web server may include messaging functionality for receiving and routing data between the agents. The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash and so forth. Example web pages may be represented using HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML JavaScript Object Notation JSON and PHP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP .

The API in conjunction with web server allows one or more external entities to access information from the SNS . The web server may also allow external entities to send information to and or receive information from the SNS through the API . For example an external entity sends an API request to the SNS via the network and the web server receives the API request. The web server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the web server communicates to the external entity via the network .

The content distributor interface forms a distributor SMCI. The formed distributor SMCI includes the received TBM content or a reference thereto descriptive text and any metadata such as content topics associated with the indirectly associated TBM content for identifying potential recipients for the distributor SMCI. The targeting module identifies a subset of social network accounts to receive the distributor SMCI. For example the subset of accounts may be identified based on graph data e.g. the identified accounts follow SMCIs posted by the content distributor . The accounts in the identified subset have preferences to receive SMCIs with particular characteristics such as particular descriptive text tags or metadata for example. In one embodiment the content publishing module posts the distributor SMCI to a webpage through the web server . The webpage may be public or may restrict access to one or more particular social network accounts or groups thereof based on preferences of the SMCI author e.g. the content distributor .

The content publishing module sends the distributor SMCI to the identified subset of social network accounts . The social network user interface is structured to display the sent distributor SMCI. In an alternate embodiment accounts in the identified subset may access the distributor SMCI through the API . Sending a SMCI includes broadcasting the SMCI to accounts that have a connection to the author account as well as other accounts. For example an account that searches for SMCIs having a given topic category keyword or search term may view the sent SMCI. As another example a webpage may display the sent SMCI e.g. a profile page of the SMCI author an external page that includes the SMCI embedded in other content a webpage that aggregates SMCIs of interest to an account . A sent SMCI may be viewed through an application e.g. an application provided by the SNS an external application that aggregates SMCIs and or other content . Sending a SMCI may include multicasting as well where one or accounts are selected to receive the SMCI. A SMCI may be both multicast and broadcast. For example an account is selected to receive a multicast SMCI that has been broadcast. The multicast SMCI is featured in a social network user interface personalized for the recipient account. One embodiment of the social network user interface is described in .

For example a content distributor such as a television network broadcasts a baseball game. While the baseball game is airing the television network creates a TBM content clip showing a homerun from the baseball game that has already occurred. The SNS receives from the television network a SMCI containing the homerun replay a description for the replay e.g. What a Hit MLZ BigHits and metadata identifying baseball as a content topic. The SNS forms a distributor SMCI and identifies a subset of accounts that have subscribed to MLZ SMCIs or who are interested in baseball. The content publishing module sends the distributor SMCI to the identified subset of social network accounts who may access a replay of the homerun. Some users of the identified accounts may not be already watching the broadcast baseball game when they receive the distributor SMCI and are incentivized to do so as a result of having received the SMCI.

After receiving a notification about a distributor SMCI a content promoter chooses to promote the SMCI. Alternatively or additionally a content promoter may choose to promote a distributor SMCI without a notification. Alternately or additionally a content distributor promotes distributor SMCIs selected by the SNS according to preferences of the content distributor . The SNS receives promotional information from the content promoter . The received promotional information may include additional TBM content e.g. a commercial text e.g. slogans attribution an advertisement headline advertisement body text or images e.g. a logo an advertisement visual a banner advertisement . In an alternative embodiment a content promoter sends promotional information to the SNS with instructions to automatically insert the promotion information into distributor SMCIs meeting criteria specified by content promoter preferences.

The SNS modifies the distributor SMCI to include the promotional information. For example modifying the distributor SMCI may include inserting TBM content from the promoter into the distributor TBM content. In an alternate embodiment the promoter may edit or remove portions of the distributor TBM content. As another example the SNS modifies the distributor SMCI by inserting text or images as overlays in the distributor TBM content. In one embodiment the content promoter modifies the TBM content modifying the distributor SMCI includes replacing the distributor TBM content with the TBM content from the promoter. In an alternate embodiment the content promoter interface includes tools for modifying the distributor TBM content. The modified SMCI may have additional images or text added such as a banner advertisement surmounting the TBM content player. In one embodiment the modified SMCI still identifies the content distributor as the author.

After modifying the distributor SMCI the SNS selects accounts to receive the modified SMCI. The targeting module identifies a second subset of accounts to receive the modified SMCI based on the SMCI known information about social network accounts e.g. interests graph data and content promoter preferences. For example an energy drink maker a content promoter promotes a SMCI with TBM content related to concurrently broadcast electronic music. The targeting module identifies accounts interested in content topics associated with the broadcast TBM such as the electronic music genre and the electronic music DJ disc jockey .

After selecting the second subset of accounts to receive the modified SMCI the SNS sends the modified SMCI to the second subset of accounts. The targeting module sends the modified SMCI through the web server to the second subset of accounts who may then view the modified SMCI in the social network user interface . Sending the modified SMCI may include broadcasting and or multicasting as described previously. For example the social network account may view the modified SMCI as part of a stream of SMCIs generated by the social network user interface . As another example the social network user interface generates a push notification on a client device belonging to the targeted social network account .

For example suppose a football fan a social network account has created several SMCIs about football players. The relevance module infers from the SMCIs that the football fan looks favorably on football a content topic . The football league a content distributor uploads TBM content showing a replay of a blocked field goal from a concurrently airing football game from which the SNS forms a distributor SMCI. The SNS sends the distributor SMCI to accounts subscribed to receive SMCIs from the football league who can view the blocked field goal replay by interacting with the distributor SMCI. Other accounts including the football fan do not receive the distributor SMCI. A pizza company a content promoter chooses to promote the distributor SMCI. The pizza company submits a brief commercial promotional information to the SNS which forms a modified SMCI. The targeting module identifies a second subset of accounts and sends the modified SMCI to them. Since the football fan has a known interest in the content topic of football the football fan is identified and receives the modified SMCI. When the football fan views the TBM content in the modified SMCI the football fan sees the pizza advertisement and then the blocked field goal replay.

As a further example suppose a social network account authors a SMCI about a football game while viewing a broadcast of that game. The relevance module infers that the account s user is viewing the broadcast of the game. For the remaining duration of the broadcast game the targeting module identifies the account to receive modified SMCIs that contain promotional information and TBM content from the football game.

Inferring that the account s user is viewing the broadcast game may also account for demographic information geographic location and knowledge of broadcast content in that geographic location. The demographic information and geographic location may be provided by the social network account or may be inferred from SMCIs authored by the social network account . For example an account authors numerous SMCIs referring to people or topics germane to broadcast TBM content. Based on the timing of the SMCIs and the timing of the broadcast TBM content across various geographic areas the geographic area of the social network account is inferred. Based on known demographics of viewers of TBM content the demographics of a social network account authoring SMCIs about those TBM content are inferred. As another example the location of a social network account is inferred from authored SMCIs about weather correlated with an external database about weather. Finally account content preferences may be inferred from the content of authored SMCIs about TBM content and metadata corresponding to the TBM content.

Independently of the social network accounts the content distributor creates TBM content and uploads the TBM content through the content distributor interface during the broadcast of the TBM content. Additionally or alternatively the content distributor selects a segment of TBM content using the content distributor interface . The content publishing module sends a distributor SMCI including the received TBM content during the broadcast of the TBM content. Social network accounts receive the distributor SMCI during the broadcast of the TBM content. For example a baseball league a content distributor creates a distributor SMCI featuring two double play replays. A social network account who follows the baseball league receives the distributor SMCI which contains a link to a video of the two double play replays. In this way content associated with live and or currently broadcasting TBM content e.g. a sports replay can be selected by a content distributor multicast by the content publishing module in a distributor SMCI and made available for viewing promotion analysis and or further propagation by others.

The content promoter interface notifies a content promoter about the distributor SMCI through the content promoter interface during the broadcast of the TBM content. The content promoter creates promoter information and uploads the promoter information through the content promoter interface during the broadcast of the TBM content. The content promoter interface modifies the distributor SMCI. For example a burger chain a content promoter creates promotional information including a banner ad and short video about double quarter pounder burgers. The promotional information is uploaded through the content promoter interface which adds the banner ad to the distributor SMCI and the short video to the TBM containing two double play replays in the distributor SMCI. The targeting module sends the modified SMCI during the broadcast of the TBM content. Continuing the previous example the modified SMCI is multicast to social network accounts who have authored SMCIs indicating they are watching the baseball game. When these social network accounts open the SMCI they see the modified TBM content featuring an ad for a double quarter pounder burger sandwiched between two double play replays.

The banner advertisements A and B contain promotional information such as text and images created by a content promoter for a new movie After Irf. The TBM player contains a reference to TBM content showing a basketball replay. The TBM player shows a preview of the basketball replay and an icon to initiate the replay. When a social network account selects the TBM player the TBM content is retrieved and played as illustrated in .

The SMCI interaction options may be selected by accounts of the SNS to interact with the promoted SMCI . A social network account selects the follow option A to receive further SMCIs from the content distributor indicated by the author identifier . The replay option B may be selected to author a SMCI directed at the content distributor . A social network account selects the share option C to send the promoted SMCI to the social network account s followers. The favorite option D is selected to mark the promoted SMCI as a favorite. The SNS logs account actions performed with the SMCI interaction options . The relevance module uses these logged actions to infer content topics of interest to the account. The SMCI statistics indicate the popularity of the promoted SMCI among social network accounts . One SMCI statistic indicates how many social network accounts have shared the distributor SMCI with their followers using the share option C. Another SMCI statistic indicates how many have marked the distributor SMCI as a favorite with the favorite option D.

Embodiments may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s such as a central processing unit CPU integrated circuit a hardware processor and a memory . One or more components of the computer system may be communicatively connected by a bus. The computer system may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone. Further the computer system may include output means such as a display device. The computer system may be connected to the network via a network adapter. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice an embodiment.

Further in one or more embodiments one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where portions of the SNS e.g. the TBM content store the relevance module may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor or micro core of a processor with shared memory and or resources. The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS .

Further one or more elements of the above described systems e.g. the TBM content store the relevance module of can be implemented as software instructions in the form of computer readable program code stored temporarily or permanently on one or more non transitory computer readable storage media. The non transitory computer readable storage media e.g. the memory are executable by one or more computer processors to perform the functionality of one or more components of the above described systems e.g. and or flowcharts e.g. . Examples of non transitory computer readable media can include but are not limited to compact discs CDs a hard disk a cache flash memory solid state drives random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical storage and any other computer readable media excluding transitory propagating signals.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms for example as illustrated in . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the disclosed embodiments. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for the systems and processes described herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

