---

title: Battery consumption monitoring
abstract: In one embodiment, a method for battery monitoring on a computing device includes: estimating a battery consumption estimate for an event scheduled on the computing device, checking a battery charge level prior to said scheduled event, determining according to a set of battery notification rules whether or not to provide a battery warning notification on the computing device, where the determining is based at least on the battery consumption estimate and the checking, and providing the battery warning notification if required in accordance with the determining.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288763&OS=09288763&RS=09288763
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09288763
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140917
---
The present invention generally relates to predicting battery consumption for mobile computing devices and particularly but not exclusively to monitoring battery consumption for scheduled tasks events.

The present application claims the benefit of priority from CN Patent Application CN 201410444116.4 of Cisco Technology Inc. filed Sep. 2 2014.

Mobile computing devices such as laptops tablets and smartphones are typically configured with batteries to enable them to operate without being connected to an external power source. Such devices are typically operative to provide feedback regarding current battery levels and or to provide a warning when the battery level is below a certain threshold. Some devices are also operative to enter a power saving mode of operation to limit battery usage when the battery level is below a certain threshold.

A method for battery monitoring on a computing device includes estimating a battery consumption estimate for an event scheduled on the computing device checking a battery charge level prior to said scheduled event determining according to a set of battery notification rules whether or not to provide a battery warning notification on the computing device where the determining is based at least on the battery consumption estimate and the checking and providing the battery warning notification if required in accordance with the determining.

A method for monitoring battery charge on a computing device includes estimating a battery consumption estimate for an event on the computing device checking a battery charge level during the event determining according to a set of battery notification rules whether or not to provide a battery warning notification on the computing device where the determining is based at least on results of the estimating and the checking and providing the battery warning notification if required in accordance with the determining.

The services provided by mobile computing devices such as for example smartphones tablets and computer laptops are generally limited by the capacity of their batteries. Accordingly a common concern of mobile computing device users is to ensure that the batteries of their devices do not run out when they need plan to use them as mobile devices without connection to an external power source.

Such devices are typically configured to monitor battery levels and provide an alert when the battery level is below a certain threshold such as for example 15 of full capacity. However such alerts are typically provided in a reactive fashion once the battery is already close to empty. If such an alert is received when an external power is not available it may be necessary to shut down the device or at least limit its use in order to conserve battery power. This may be particularly problematic when a user otherwise intends to use the mobile computing device to participate in a scheduled event such as for example a video conference or phone call. The inventors of the present invention has realized that a user s scheduled events may be leveraged to proactively predict battery usage and therefore enable prediction of whether or not a mobile computing device is likely to have enough stored charge to perform a scheduled task.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exemplary mobile computing device constructed and operative in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the depiction of mobile computing device as a smartphone in may be exemplary the present invention may also support the use of other mobile computing devices such as for example a laptop computer or a tablet computer.

Mobile computing device may comprise battery icon and battery percentage indicator . Battery icon may be a graphic representation of the current battery level in device and may be supported by standard built in functionality in device . Battery percentage indicator may represent the current battery level as a percentage for example 71 as in .

As illustrated in device is operative to display a meeting scheduler application comprising meeting entries which indicate meetings that may have already been scheduled. Meeting entries may be expandable to show meeting details for the associated date entry. For example per meeting entry A may indicate that a meeting has been scheduled for Monday Jan. 27 2014. Meeting entry B may have been expanded to show meeting details A which indicate a meeting with John Smith and hosted by me taking place on Jan. 28 2014 per meeting entry B from 3 00 AM to 4 30 AM. Meeting entries C and D are similarly expanded to reveal meeting details B and C.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention meeting details also comprise battery estimates that may provide an estimate of how much battery power may be necessary to conduct the associated meeting. For example per battery estimate A the one and a half hour meeting scheduled for meeting entry B may be expected to consume approximately 30 of a full charge of the battery in device A. Similarly per battery estimates B and C the meetings associated with meeting entries C and D may be expected to use 15 25 and at least 18 respectively.

It will be appreciated that a meeting scheduler application may be operative to present different levels of detail. to which reference is now made depicts mobile computing device with a lower level view of meeting entry D as presented in . It will be appreciated that in such a lower level view more information and or options may be presented. For example detailed battery estimate A may provide a lengthened version of the estimate provided by battery estimate C with an option to receive additional battery estimate details by clicking on more .

Reference is made to which is a block diagram drawing of exemplary mobile computing device . As discussed hereinabove mobile computing device may be any suitable mobile computing device operative to monitor battery levels. For example mobile computing device may be a smartphone a tablet computer or a laptop computer etc. Mobile computing device comprises at least one processor display screen I O module battery battery manager task application scheduler and battery usage database . It will be appreciated that mobile computing device comprises hardware and software components such as are well known in the art. It will similarly be appreciated that mobile computing device may comprise other components that are not depicted in .

It will be appreciated that mobile computing device may comprise more than one processor . For example one such processor may be a special purpose processor operative to execute battery manager to monitor the usage of battery and to provide battery consumption estimates based at least in part on usage statistics stored in battery usage database .

It will be appreciated that battery manager may be an application implemented in software and or hardware on mobile computing device . Task application may be any suitable application installed on mobile computing device that may be scheduled to perform a scheduled task. Non limiting examples of such a scheduled task may include video conferences audio conferences telephone calls media content playing etc. Scheduler may be any suitable application installed on mobile computing device that may be operative to schedule tasks performed by task application . It will be appreciated task application and scheduler may be implemented in software and or hardware on mobile computing device . It will similarly be appreciated that the depiction of battery manager task application and scheduler as separate and distinct entities may be exemplary. The present invention may also support the integration of some or all of the functionality of battery manager as part of task application and or scheduler . Similarly some or all of the elements of task application may be integrated as part of scheduler . Likewise some or all of the elements of scheduler may be integrated as part of task application .

Display screen may be a display screen operative to display views generated by applications such as for example battery manager task application and scheduler and or the operating system not shown of mobile computing device . I O module may be a software or hardware component such as for example a transceiver operative to transmit and receive data at least in support of battery manager task application and scheduler .

Reference is now also made to which illustrates a battery consumption monitoring process to be performed by battery manager in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Battery manager may receive step details of a scheduled event from scheduler . An exemplary such scheduled event may require tasks to be performed by task application . For example the scheduled event may be a meeting such as one of the meetings described by meeting entries . In such a case the event details received in step may at least include the expected length of the meeting or at least an indication of the expected length. For example start and stop times such as for example 1 30 PM and 2 30 PM respectively per meeting details B may yield an expected length of one hour.

Another example of a scheduled event may be a broadcast event where task application may be a media player scheduled to receive and play a broadcast at a given time. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that any task scheduled by scheduler to be performed on device may represent a scheduled event within the context of the present invention. Accordingly a scheduled event may not necessarily require scheduling vis vis a second party such as another meeting participant or media broadcaster as per the above examples. A scheduled event may represent a scheduled task to be performed solely by the user of device . For example the user may use scheduler to schedule time to read an eBook where task application may be a document reader application. The user may similarly schedule time to browse the Internet where task application may be a mobile web browser.

Battery manager may estimate step the required battery usage as per the meeting details received in step i.e. per the above example where the scheduled event is a meeting battery manager may estimate the expected battery usage for a one hour meeting. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention such estimation may be based on observed battery usage by mobile computing device and or similar such devices.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exemplary meeting battery usage table . Meeting battery usage table may comprise a multiplicity of usage observations wherein observations may detail observations of battery usage for actual scheduled tasks as performed by task application on various different types of mobile computing devices . For example meeting battery usage table may be based on observation of battery usage by a task application for conducting online meetings. Observation A may comprise the details of the battery usage of devices that were used to participate in an exemplary one hour meeting observation B may comprise the details of the battery usage of devices participating in an exemplary one and a half hour meeting observation may comprise the details of a two hour meeting. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the generation of similar such tables for each type of task application may be supported by the present invention. Battery manager may use the observations in the meeting battery usage table to estimate the expected battery usage per the meeting details received from scheduler .

For example mobile computing device may be an iPhone 5 and the scheduled event for which details were received in step may be an online meeting such as that referenced by meeting battery usage table . There are five entries for an iPhone 5 in meeting battery usage table users and in observation A user b in observation B and users C and N in observation N . Accordingly battery manager may compute the average battery consumption for an online meeting on an iPhone 5 as 19 24 38 1.5 44 2 41 2 5 22.17 per hour.

Furthermore the minimum observed battery consumption may have been 19 per hour and the maximum battery consumption may have been 24 per hour. Battery manager may be configured to provide a battery usage estimate based on the average battery consumption. Battery manager may also be configured to provide a safety margin to the estimate to prevent total battery drainage during usage. For example the estimate may be adjusted by adding an additional percentage e.g. 2 or 5 . Alternatively or in addition the estimate may be adjusted in light of the maximum observed battery consumption i.e. 24 per meeting battery usage table .

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that meeting battery usage table may have been compiled by a distributor of battery manager . In practice such a table may be summarized prior to storage in battery usage database in order to increase the efficiency of step . For example the installation process of battery manager and or battery usage database may include designation of the manufacturer and model of mobile computing device such that it may be sufficient to provide battery usage data for the specific model of device i.e. for an iPhone 5 as per the example hereinabove. It will also be appreciated that the format and usage of meeting battery usage table is exemplary the present invention may support any suitable format and or method for documenting actual battery usage and the use thereof for estimating battery requirements for future scheduled tasks.

It will similarly be appreciated by one of skill in the art that batteries of the same model of mobile computing device may not always perform similarly. Battery performance may also tend to degrade over time. It will accordingly be appreciated that the present invention may also support the compilation of meeting battery usage data based on actual meetings conducted by task application on mobile computing device . This data may be added to meeting battery usage table in order to further calibrate estimates provided by battery manager in light of actual usage on device . Alternatively such data may be used to replace meeting battery usage table .

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that actual meeting battery usage data may be derived using known application programming interfaces APIs to check current battery levels of battery at the beginning and end of meetings on mobile computing device . For example for Android deices suitable APIs for monitoring battery levels may be found at http developer.android.com training monitoring device state battery monitoring.html. A suitable API for iOS devices may be found at https developer.apple.com library ios documentation uikit reference UIDevice C lass Reference UIDevice.html. It will be appreciated that these APIs may also be used when preparing meeting battery usage table .

Returning to battery manager may forward step the estimate of expected battery consumption to scheduler . It will be appreciated that scheduler may include the estimate in meeting details as shown in . It will similarly be appreciated that the syntax and representation of the estimate in meeting details may be configurable.

It will be appreciated that events may be scheduled in scheduler days weeks or even months in advance. Accordingly the current level of battery at the time of the scheduling of the associated event may not be a reliable indicator of an anticipated ability for device to sustain power for the event when it actually occurs battery may undergo repeated power up power down cycles between the scheduling of an event and the time at which the event actually occurs. It may not be relevant to monitor battery with regard to the scheduled event until a defined interval of time prior to the scheduled event.

Accordingly battery manager may be configured with a series of warning intervals intended to detect low battery levels in advance of the scheduled event in order to provide sufficient advance notice that the situation may be remedied in time. For example battery manager may be configured to start checking the battery level of battery three hours before a given scheduled event with hourly warning intervals thereafter until the event starts. It will be appreciated that a configuration with a three hour start with hourly intervals is exemplary the present invention may support other start interval schemes as well.

Battery manager may therefore effectively enter a wait state until a warning interval occurs step . For example battery manager may be configured such that the first warning interval may be three hours before the scheduled event. Battery manager may then receive step the current battery level of mobile computing device using for example the APIs discussed hereinabove. Reference is now also made to which illustrates an exemplary battery warning notification rules table to be used by process to determine which if any warning to display on mobile computing device in response to the battery level received in step .

Battery warning notification rules table comprises a set of rules used by battery manager to determine whether or not a battery warning notification should be provided to mobile computing device . The rules in table are comprised of battery states warning intervals and notifications . Battery state may refer to possible states of battery and may be a function of three factors the current battery level a required battery charge level i.e. as may be determined in step and an additional reserve battery percentage that may be used by device prior to the scheduled event. Each battery state is associated with at least one warning interval . It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that battery warning notification rules table may be configured by the provider of device and or battery manager . Battery warning notification rules table may also be configured and or modified by the user of device .

As depicted in the earliest warning interval in battery warning notification rules table may be three hours before . Accordingly per the entry in table step may return Yes three hours before the scheduled event. Battery manager may then receive step the current battery level using known APIs as discussed hereinabove.

As shown in table an exemplary battery state associated with the three hour before warning interval may be current battery level

As depicted in battery warning notification rules table there may be multiple warning intervals defined i.e. battery manager may be configured to provide additional warnings as a meeting approaches. If there are additional warning intervals defined before the meeting step control may flow back to step where process may continue when the next warning interval occurs. For example as shown in table a next warning interval may be defined for two hours before the meeting. If there are no additional warning intervals before the meeting process may end.

It will be appreciated that there may be more than one possible battery state to be tested for a given warning interval . For example as depicted in table there may be two battery states associated with a warning interval of two hours before . Battery manager may be configured to test battery states until the result returned by step is YES i.e. until the condition defined by a given battery state is true.

For example battery manager may first test for the condition current battery required battery battery manager may continue to test additional battery states associated with the current warning interval . For example battery manager may test for the condition current battery

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that estimated battery performance may not always be an indicator of actual performance. Actual battery performance may be a function of various factors including for example battery age prior usage patterns and resource demands specific to a given scheduled event. Accordingly even if process may enable a user to begin a scheduled event with the requisite estimate of battery charge it may be possible that in actual use more power than anticipated may be necessary to support the scheduled event. It may therefore be beneficial to monitor battery usage during the scheduled event as well.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an in use battery consumption monitoring process constructed and operative in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Process may monitor in use battery consumption in accordance with a schedule of warning intervals during the scheduled event itself. For example process may be configured to check the level of battery every ten or fifteen minutes while a scheduled event in progress. Process may be performed generally in parallel with the scheduled event. Battery manager may receive step the current battery level for battery as described hereinabove with respect to step of process .

Process may execute in a closed loop until the scheduled event ends step . When a warning interval occurs step battery manager may use a known API to check whether battery is currently charging step . For example for Android devices a suitable API may be found at http developer.android.com training monitoring device state battery monitoring.html. A suitable API for iOS devices may be found at https developer.apple.com library ios documentation uikit reference UIDevice C lass Reference UIDevice.html. If battery is charging control may return to step . Otherwise battery manager may receive step the current battery level for battery as described hereinabove.

Battery manager may calculate step the battery charge level required for the remainder of the scheduled event using any suitable methods such as those described hereinabove with regard to tables and . Based on the results of step battery manager may adjust step the estimate for the remainder of the scheduled event if necessary. For example in accordance with an exemplary embodiment a 25 charge may have been received in step as the current battery level at the beginning of an event scheduled to last one hour and estimated to require 20 battery charge. Assuming the estimate was accurate it may be expected that the current battery level as received in step may generally decrease by about 5 every fifteen minutes. However if after fifteen minutes the battery level as received in step may have been decreased by 10 battery manager may adjust step the estimate accordingly i.e. instead of 20 for one hour it may be 40 .

If the current battery level is lower than the current estimate step battery manager may display step a warning notification in a manner generally similar to that used in step of process . It will be appreciated that the performance of step may be performed independently of whether or not the current estimate was adjusted in step . Accordingly even if no adjustment was necessary process may still provide monitoring functionality if there was insufficient battery charge when the scheduled event began.

It will be appreciated that the representation of battery estimates in as text may be exemplary the present invention may support other representations as well. For example as shown in to which reference is now made battery estimates may also be represented as graphic illustrations with shading used to indicate required battery charges. It will be appreciated that the present invention may support any other suitable representation as well.

The present invention may also support combined estimates for multiple scheduled events. For example if two events are scheduled in close proximity to each other battery states in table may be defined to address the estimated battery charge for both scheduled events.

The present invention may also support battery monitoring for non scheduled events. For example if a user joins an ad hoc video conference there may be no scheduled start stop times from which to derive an expected length of the event. A user may in fact begin any task on device e.g. word processing Internet surfing media playing. Battery manager may be configured to track actual battery usage during such unscheduled events and provide warnings regarding how long the current battery charge may last based on either observed usage such as for example in table and or actual usage during the unscheduled event. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that in this context task applications may not be limited only to the performance of scheduled tasks.

The present invention may also support estimates for different participation roles in scheduled events. For example the host of a video conference may use more power during the video conference than a passive participant. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention table may be configured to differentiate between usage observations based on such participation roles. Table may be similarly configured to include participation role as a factor to be considered when evaluating battery states . Battery manager may accordingly take the participation type into consideration when calculating an estimate for a scheduled event. It will be appreciated that scheduler may be configured to differentiate between at least some types of participation. For example commonly available schedulers generally differentiate between a host and an invitee of a meeting.

It is appreciated that software components of the present invention may if desired be implemented in ROM read only memory form. The software components may generally be implemented in hardware if desired using conventional techniques. It is further appreciated that the software components may be instantiated for example as a computer program product or on a tangible medium. In some cases it may be possible to instantiate the software components as a signal interpretable by an appropriate computer although such an instantiation may be excluded in certain embodiments of the present invention.

It is appreciated that various features of the invention which are for clarity described in the contexts of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable subcombination.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited by what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

