---

title: Method to fabricate functionalized conical nanopores
abstract: A pressure-based chemical etch method is used to shape polymer nanopores into cones. By varying the pressure, the pore tip diameter can be controlled, while the pore base diameter is largely unaffected. The method provides an easy, low-cost approach for conically etching high density nanopores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09387444&OS=09387444&RS=09387444
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09387444
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141117
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 907 810 filed Nov. 22 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to nanoporous materials and in particular to a method to fabricate nanoporous membranes via pressure biased chemical etching to control nanopore morphology and to further functionalize the nanopores.

Nanoporous membranes continue to emerge as important tools for the filtration and separation of nanoscale materials processes which are strongly influenced by the size shape and surface chemistry of the nanopores. In particular controlling the size shape and surface chemistry of nanopores in polymer membranes can significantly impact transport of molecular or ionic species through these membranes. If the pores are sufficiently small the electrochemical double layer formed on the interior surfaces of these pores can be manipulated so as to control the transport of charged species through the membrane facilitating charge mediated filtration sensing or even energy harvesting. See J. Cervera et al. 71 35 2005 . For example the ability to gate and release these concentration gradients is integral to the development of an energy source. See J. Cervera et al. 56 4504 2011 . By altering the shape of the nanopore the transport properties of the pore can be further tailored. Conically shaped nanopores for instance have been shown to rectify ionic currents through nanoporous polymer membranes. See C. Kubeil and A. Bund 115 7866 2011 P. Apel et al. 184 337 2001 Z. Siwy et al. 94 048102 2005 and Z. Siwy et al. 126 10850 2005 . Given a sufficiently small pore tip these conical membranes can act as charge filters allowing for increased discrimination when filtering charged species be it ions particulates or biological media.

Controlling the size and shape of these pores with nanoscale resolution however is technically challenging. Plasma etching has been shown to create conically shaped pores however this technique requires expensive vacuum equipment and can be difficult to adapt for large scale application. See N. Li et al. 76 2025 2004 . A common alternative method used to shape the commercially available nanopores into cones involves placing the membrane between a concentrated basic alkaline solution and an acidic solution while applying up to 30 V across two electrodes one on each side of the membrane. See P. Apel 34 559 2001 C. C. Harrell et al. 2 194 2006 P. Scopece et al. 17 3951 2006 and J. E. Wharton et al. 3 1424 2007 . The basic solution etches the membrane while the acidic solution neutralizes any etchant that diffuses through the membrane. Because the nanopore density is small the solution resistance through the membrane is exceedingly large and dominates the response of the electrochemical cell. The potential difference applied across the membrane creates an energetic barrier such that it is energetically less favorable for the hydroxide ions to travel through the pores. The resulting concentration gradient produces asymmetric chemical etching of the polymer membrane ultimately creating conical pores. See C. C. Harrell et al. 2 194 2006 . Typically these materials have been used for fundamental research studies examining the electrical behavior of single conical nanopores and nanoporous membranes with low pore densities. See J. Cervera et al. 124 104706 2006 N. Li et al. 76 2025 2004 P. Ramirez et al. 68 011910 2003 and M. R. Powell et al. 6 798 2011 .

At high nanopore densities however the solution resistance through the membrane becomes quite small and is insufficient to dominate the electrochemical response of the cell. Here the voltage across the membrane is only attributed to IR drop as dictated by Ohm s Law. To apply the same potential difference across the membrane needed to induce the etching asymmetry a larger current is required. To supply this current Faradaic processes are needed at the electrodes which at more than 1.5 V include the production of potentially hazardous hydrogen and oxygen gases. At 30 V the production of hydrogen and oxygen gases and the subsequent change in solution pH make this voltage based process ill suited for the conical shaping of high density nanopores. Therefore a need remains for an effective tunable inexpensive and safe alternative to this process.

Nanopores have been used to successfully control ionic transport through inorganic and polymeric membranes. See C. R. Martin et al. 13 1351 2001 and C. R. Martin et al. 105 1925 2001 . Unlike many biological systems where ions are passed through channels of exquisitely arranged functional groups nanopores rely on the overlapping electrochemical double layer formed by the nanopore walls and solution to electrostatically control ion movement through the pore. See Z. Siwy et al. 94 048102 2005 . Nanopore surface charge and solution concentration dictate the electrical field strength and size of the double layer while the nanopore diameter controls overlap of the double layer inside the nanopore. See P. Ramirez et al. 68 011910 2003 and Z. Siwy et al. 126 10850 2005 . Control over nanopore shape to include asymmetric geometries such as cones enables the creation of ionic diodes. See C. Kubeil and A. Bund 115 7866 2011 J. Cervera et al. 56 4504 2011 P. Apel et al. 184 337 2001 N. Li et al. 76 2025 2004 L. J. Small et al. 4 5499 2014 W. J. Lan et al. 133 13300 2011 D. Momotenko and H. H. Girault 133 14496 2011 and J. P. Guerrette and B. Zhang 132 17088 2010 . Once fabricated nanopore shape is fixed allowing only for solution concentration and surface charge to be easily varied. Generally a lower salt concentration in solution will lead to a larger double layer. For a given nanopore size and fixed surface charge this will create more overlap of the double layer inside the nanopore and result in increased ionic selectivity.

The ability to control whether cations or anions are selectivity transported is determined by the surface charge present on the nanopore walls. As shown in a positive surface charge allows the selective transport of anions such as Cl whereas a negative surface charge allows the transport of cations such as Na as shown in . Further for conical pores selectivity is controlled by concentration at the pore tip. Surface charge in chemically active nanopores such as polycarbonate can be manipulated by the pH dependent protonation of the carbonate groups. See Z. Siwy et al. 126 10850 2005 . Other nanopore materials such as gold may easily be modified by chloride adsorption to place a negative charge to the surface. See C. R. Martin et al. 13 1351 2001 . An applied voltage however remains the most attractive triggering mechanism allowing surface charge to be changed with the flip of a switch. See M. Powell et al. 6 798 2011 E. B. Kalman et al. 394 413 2009 J. Elbert et al. 24 1591 2014 and F. Buyukserin et al. 3 266 2007 . Therefore a further need remains for a method to reversibly or irreversibly electrochemically switch the pore surface between multiple chemically stable states without the need for a continuously applied gate voltage to retain nanopore selectivity.

The present invention is directed to a method to fabricate a nanoporous membrane with controlled nanopore morphology comprising providing a membrane having a plurality of nanopores placing the membrane between a first solution and a second solution wherein the membrane material has a different etch rate for the first and second solutions and applying a differential pressure across the membrane thereby regulating the flow of the first or second solution through the nanopores and thereby producing asymmetric etching in each of the nanopores. The membrane material can comprise a polymer such as polycarbonate or poly ethylene terephthalate . With these polymers the first solution can comprise a basic solution such as sodium hydroxide and the second solution can comprise an acidic solution such as formic acid wherein the polymer has a higher etch rate in the sodium hydroxide solution and a slower etch rare in the formic acid solution i.e. the neutralizing solution . The use of a sodium hydroxide etchant and a formic acid neutralizer does not result in dangerous heating or violent reaction when combined. With a high density of nanopores in the membrane once the pores become too large micron size enough acid can flow through the pores to neutralize the alkaline etchant effectively lowering its concentration. Therefore it is preferable to keep the concentration of etchant and neutralizer constant on each side of the membrane throughout the etch so that the etchant concentration gradient inside the nanopores is unaffected.

Other membrane materials such as metals ceramics glass and other polymers can also be used with proper choice of etchant and neutralizer. For example silver stainless steel cellulose acetate nitrocellulose nylon polyethersulfone polyester polypropylene polytetrafluoroethylene and silicon based membrane materials can also be used with acid base alcohols or other solvent etchants. For example the method can be applied to nanopores in silicon wafers using potassium hydroxide as the etchant and formic acid as the neutralizer.

The pressure can be higher on the side of the membrane having the slower etching solution thereby regulating flow of the slower etching neutralizing solution through the nanopores and producing etched nanopores having a narrow pore tip toward the neutralizing solution side and a wider pore base toward the etchant side. Hydrostatic pressure applied across the nanoporous membranes affects the etch rate of the pore tips independent of the etch rate at the pore base creating conical pores. Conically etched nanopores can thereby be produced from cylindrical nanopores. By varying both the etching time and the pressure applied across the membrane the size and aspect ratio of the nanopores can be tuned. The membranes are preferably strong enough to withstand the applied hydrostatic pressure without mechanical damage. For example polymer membranes can be thicker than about 5 microns. This method provides a straightforward low cost approach to create high density conical nanopores while avoiding the risks associated with more conventional processes such as voltage based etching. In particular the safe straightforward approach obviates the need to use large voltages currents and or plasma etching equipment traditionally employed to create conical nanopores. The process to create the conical nanopores can be tuned to enable advances in a wide range of technologies involving selective ionic transport particle separations or other molecular and ionic filtration processes.

The invention is further directed to a method to functionalize the nanopores to reversibly or irreversibly electrochemically switch the pore surface between multiple chemically stable states without the need for a continuously applied gate voltage to retain nanopore selectivity. In particular nanopore size shape and surface charge all play important roles in regulating ionic transport through nanoporous membranes. Incorporation of electrochemically switchable surfaces allows for instantaneous control of surface charge facilitating tunable ionic transport. By including both an electron transfer event and chemical event in the switching process surface charge can be stabilized eliminating the need for a continuously applied gate voltage to retain rectification and selectivity. In particular electro grafting of nitrophenyl quinone or trimethyl lock diazonium salts enables surface charge to be electrochemically switched between multiple chemically stable states. A nitrophenyl surface allows for ionic selectivity to be irreversibly switched in situ from cation selective to anion selective upon reduction to an aminophenyl surface. Alternatively the trimethyl lock allows ionic selectivity to be switched by up to a factor of 8 approaching ideal selectivity as a carboxylic acid group is electrochemically exposed or hidden. Through the use of conical shaped nanopores the directionality of ionic selectivity can be biased. Combining control of nanopore geometry chemically stabilized electrochemical switching and facile surface functionalization via diazonium chemistries molecular transport across the membrane can be easily controlled enabling tunable self regulating ion transport systems.

The present invention is directed to a method to controllably form conical nanopores in membranes. According to the method a nanoporous membrane is placed between a concentrated basic solution and an acidic solution. A pressure difference applied across the nanoporous membrane is used to conically shape the nanopores. See P. Apel et al. 184 337 2001 N. Li et al. 76 2025 2004 and P. Scopece et al. 17 3951 2006 . The volume of the acidic solution is varied thus controlling the pressure head applied across the membrane and in turn the acid flux through the nanopores. Further at higher pressures effectively no etching is observed as the nanopore tip. Unlike previous methods no large voltage or even plasma etching are required to create conical nanopores.

As an example of the invention an ion tracked polycarbonate membrane can be placed between a sodium hydroxide NaOH solution and a formic acid HCOOH solution. The height of the acidic solution can be varied thus controlling the hydrostatic pressure applied across the membrane. This pressure regulates the neutralizing acid flux through the nanopores and produces the asymmetric etching needed to create conical nanopores. By varying both the duration of etching and the hydrostatic pressure applied across the membrane it is possible to tune the morphology of conical nanopores produced.

An apparatus that was used with the invention is shown in . As received nanoporous polycarbonate membranes were cut into circles 19 mm in diameter rinsed in deionized water and soaked in fresh deionized water for at least 15 minutes. The pore size of the as received membranes was 15 nm and the pore density was about 6 10pores m. To prevent charging the membranes were coated with approximately 5 nm of a gold palladium alloy. The nanoporous polycarbonate membrane was loaded into a glass flange in a U shaped cell . A basic solution consisting of 30 mL of 9M NaOH was placed on one side of the membrane and the pressure head was controlled by varying the volume of acidic solution added to the opposing side of the membrane . The acidic solution consisted of 1M aqueous formic acid and 1M KCl. After etching for 0.5 1 or 2 hours the membranes were removed immersed in a fresh acid solution for 30 minutes flushed with deionized water and dried in air. In this example pore tip is defined as the pore opening which faced the acidic solution during etch and the pore base faced the basic solution .

To calculate the pressure across the membrane the static fluid pressure applied by the basic solution is subtracted from that applied by the acidic solution. Static fluid pressure can be written as p h g where p is the static fluid pressure h is the total fluid height is the fluid density and g is the acceleration of gravity. With this convention positive pressure indicates acid flow into the basic solution. As the basic solution is denser than the acidic solution equal heights of acidic and basic solutions create a slight negative pressure 20 Pa increasing the flux of basic solution through the pores and accelerating the etching process particularly at the pore base.

SEM micrographs in illustrate the effectiveness of the asymmetric etching process. The unetched membranes contain pores with tips and bases with identical sizes 23 4 nm in diameter as shown in . The cylindrical shape of nickel replicas templated in these pores reveals uniform cross sections throughout the pores as shown in . Upon etching the pores for 2 hours using equal heights of acidic and basic solutions i.e. p 20 Pa the uniform etching leads to widening of the pore tip and the pore base to 281 25 nm and 331 20 nm respectively as shown in . Interestingly these figures also reveal that etching of more than a few hundred nanometers results in overlapping pores. As with the unetched pores nickel replicas of these pores appear essentially cylindrical as shown in . In contrast however membranes etched at 300 Pa for 2 hours display a large disparity between pore tip and pore base sizes. shows pore tips of 24 3 nm statistically unchanged from the unetched pore diameter of 23 4 nm. As seen in on the other hand the pore bases were widened to 340 27 nm effectively the same diameter as the 20 Pa case. The nickel replicas of these pores are no longer cylindrical but are severely tapered conical structures as shown in . Together the difference in the sizes of the pore tips and the pore bases along with the conical morphology of the nickel pore replicas are strong evidence of the asymmetric etching produced by the pressure differential between the acidic and basic solutions.

Moreover by varying the pressure across the membrane as a function of acid solution height the aspect ratio of the pores can be tuned. To illustrate this effect the lateral etch rate how quickly the pore diameters expanded was plotted against the calculated pressure across the membrane. Irrespective of applied pressure pore diameters of etched pores were determined to increase linearly with respect to the etch times tested 0.5 2 hours the lateral etch rate was determined by varying the etch times for each pressure tested and subsequently measuring pore sizes in electron micrographs. The resulting data are plotted in . As the pressure is elevated the increased flow of etchant neutralizing acid through the pores decreases the etch rate at the pore tip. If sufficient pressure is applied 300 Pa etching of the pore tip can be completely suppressed. The etch rate at the base of the nanopore however is not strongly affected by the pressure applied across the membrane. This behavior can be explained by the fact that the flux of 1M acid through the nanopores has little effect on the 9M hydroxide concentration at the interface between the pore base and the basic solution. The slight increase in etch rate with respect to pressure may be attributed to the mechanical stress state of the membrane. It is this discrepancy in the effective etch rates on the acidic and basic sides of these pores that is responsible for the formation of the asymmetric conical pores. These data indicate that not only can this pressure mediated etch process be used to create conical pores but that it is possible to tune the overall size and aspect ratio of these conical pores by varying the pressure applied across the membrane and the duration of the etch.

The invention is further directed to a method to functionalize the nanopores to reversibly or irreversibly electrochemically switch the pore surface between multiple chemically stable states eliminating the need for a continuously applied gate voltage to retain nanopore selectivity. As an example facile spontaneous functionalization of gold nanopores was achieved via spontaneous self assembly of specifically designed aryldiazonium salts as shown in . The ability of aryldiazonium salts to functionalize metal and semiconductor surfaces with designer molecules has been demonstrated for applications including cell adhesion molecular memories and corrosion resistance. See S. Mahouche Chergui et al. 40 4143 2011 J. Pinson and F. Podvorica 34 429 2005 M. P. Stewart et al. 126 370 2004 M. C. Bernard et al. 15 3450 2003 D. Pandey et al. 23 4700 2007 C. Saby et al. 13 6805 1997 and R. Polsky et al. 47 1 2008 .

Three distinct surface functionalization schemes are shown in . In a nitrophenyl diazonium salt is used to place a negatively charged nitrophenyl group A on the surface with subsequent reduction to an aminophenyl group B. At pH 5.7 the amine group will be protonated placing a positive charge on the surface A B . In a quinone based moiety is used. Thiol based quinone terminated monolayers self assembly on the surface from a 1 4 methoxybenzene terminated diazonium salt . The synthesis is completed with the electrochemical oxidation of the assembled methoxy groups A to reveal the quinone hydroquinone couple B C . See M. Shamsipur et al. 610 218 2007 . The acidity of the hydroquinone will create a slightly negatively charged surface. A trimethyl lock surface functionalization is depicted in . A monolayer is self assembled from the diazonium salt and the synthesis is completed with the electrochemical oxidation of the methoxy group on the surface assembled molecule A. When reversibly switched from the open state B to the closed state C a carboxylic acid and quinone hydroquinone couple are hidden. Similar molecules with different surface attachment schemes have been used since the 1970 s in biological applications for controllable cell adhesion and for release of specific molecules attached to the carboxylic acid in B. See R. T. Borchardt and L. A. Cohen 94 9166 1972 S. Milstien and L. A. Cohen 67 1143 1970 and S. Ciamp et al. 134 844 2012 .

To prepare the membranes for functionalization from the aryldiazonium salts the membranes were cleaned by UV ozone for 10 minutes per side and electrolessly plated with gold using a method developed by Martin s group. See C. R. Martin et al. 13 1351 2001 C. R. Martin et al. 105 1925 2001 and M. Wirtz and C. R. Martin 15 455 2003 . Ultrasonic agitation of the membranes during sensitizing and activation steps in addition to UV ozone cleaning improved the uniformity of the electrolessly plated gold over 3 cmareas. Membranes were stored in deionized water purified to 18.2 M cm. Residual ions were removed from membranes by soaking in deionized water for 72 hours exchanging the water once every 24 hours. Across all membranes pore density was on the order of 10pores m as measured in a scanning electron microscope SEM . Films of molecules A and A were assembled by immersing gold plated membranes for 4 hours in a solution of 1 mM of salts or respectively in 1 1 ethanol water by volume. Films of molecule A were assembled using a 1 mM solution of salt in 2 propanol for 24 hours. All film assemblies occurred at room temperature and in the dark. Afterwards membranes were rinsed in deionized water then equilibrated for 24 hours in aqueous 0.1 mM NaCl.

Characteristic micrographs of the metallized nanoporous membranes are shown in . The electrolessly plated gold coated both faces of the polycarbonate membranes with a specular film about 50 nm thick and lines the nanopore walls. On the nanoscale these gold films appear nodular resulting in gold nanopores which deviate from smooth ideal cones or cylinders. Serial sectioning of the nanoporous membranes with a focused ion beam revealed that many of the nanopores are not orthogonal to the membrane surface making a clean cut down the center of a nanopore challenging. Pores which are at a shallow angle to the membrane surface however provided an opportunity to clearly observe the nanopore diameter exemplified by the arrow in . The dimensions of the four different nanopore geometries used are summarized in Table 1. For dimensions where a statistically relevant sample size was not easily measured in SEM the pore diameter was calculated using an electrochemical approximation. See N. Li et al. 76 2025 2004 . This method is limited in that it assumes bulk conductivity of water but it is consistent with the SEM observations that pore diameters are on the order of a nanometer.

Once functionalized with the aryldiazonium molecules the metallized membranes were electrochemically evaluated. Characteristic cyclic voltammograms CVs are shown in . The reduction of the nitrophenyl surface of A to the aminophenyl surface of B in 0.1 M NaCl is clearly seen in the first scan of the CV in scan A while this peak is absent on subsequent scans. Performing a similar deposition onto a gold wire electrode with a predetermined area the surface coverage was 2.85 10moles cmof A 2 monolayers . The oxidation of the methoxy groups in A to reveal the quinone hydroquinone couple B C near 0.75 V is shown in scan B. For lower surface coverages a distinct oxidation peak is seen near 1300 mV on only the first scan. The increased intensity of the oxidation wave on the first scan is attributed to methoxy oxidation. The reduction peak near 1.0 V is reduction of AuOformed during methoxy oxidation on Au not passivated by A. 1 N HSOwas used to access the oxidizing potentials necessary without oxidizing all of the underlying gold and eject the organic coating. After deprotection in acid the hydroquinone quinone couple can be seen in 0.1 M NaCl as shown in scan C. Similar to is deprotected by oxidation of the methoxy group of A in 1 N HSO as depicted in scan D. Transition to state B is evidenced by an increased oxidation current on the first scan and the presence of the hydroquinone quinone couple on subsequent scans. As seen in scan E the quinone hydroquinone couple of B is not as pronounced as that of B C. The trimethyl lock can be closed C by applying 0 V for at least 3 minutes and subsequently opened B by applying 1400 mV for a few seconds. Afterwards 750 mV was applied to reduce any AuO. Gold platinum or glassy carbon surfaces coated with A A or A all showed the ability to block electron transfer between the electrode and aqueous ferricyanide consistent with the presence of A A or A on the surface. See C. Saby et al. 13 6805 1997 .

The presence of characteristic surface functional groups at each electrochemically switchable state was confirmed with GA FTIR as plotted in for each of the states in . In A symmetric and asymmetric stretches characteristic of N O bonds in aromatic nitro groups are seen at 1337 and 1520 cm respectively. Upon reduction to B these peaks shift to 1588 cm attributed to the N H bend in a primary amine and 1302 cm characteristic of C N stretching in an aromatic amine.

In A broad peaks indicative of C H stretching in methoxy or aromatic groups are seen over 2800 3100 cm while aromatic C C stretching is observed at 1605 and 1504 cm. The peak at 1245 cmis attributed to stretching of C N. The shoulder at 1223 cmand the peak at 1048 cmare associated with asymmetric and symmetric C O C stretching in the aromatic methoxy groups. Out of plane bending of C H in the aromatic rings is seen at 834 cm. When oxidized to B the peaks indicative of C H stretching in the methoxy and aromatic groups disappear consistent with the transition from A to B. Stretching in C O of the quinone is visible at 1660 cm and the diminished intensity of C C stretching in the remaining aryl group is seen at 1605 and 1504 cm. C was not observable in GA FTIR as atmospheric oxygen is known to oxidize the hydroquinone back to the quinone of B.

For A the many overlapping peaks could only be differentiated in GA FTIR when thick films were grown. At these thicknesses however the electrochemical switching is not clear and it is assumed that the high surface coverage has caused molecules to entangle during the opening and closing of the trimethyl lock. Nevertheless a characteristic spectra of A is shown in FIG. . C H stretching in methoxy or aromatic groups are seen in the broad peaks near 2900 and 3100 cm. C O stretching characteristic of the lactone in A is clearly visible at 1769 cm while asymmetric 1263 cm and symmetric 1038 cm aromatic ether stretching is seen in the largest two peaks over 1000 1300 cm.

The ability of these surfaces to switch between the molecular states in was further confirmed with static contact angle measurements in deionized water tabulated in . As expected the nitrophenyl group in A displayed a contact angle of 63 becoming more hydrophilic upon reduction to the amine terminated surface of B. Similarly upon removal of the hydrophobic methoxy groups of A to form surface B the contact angle decreased from 72 to 62 . State C was not air stable therefore reliable contact angle measurements could not be obtained. Surface A displayed a contact angle of 76 which decreased to 64 upon exposure of the hydrophilic carboxylic acid in B. This transition could not be observed unless a potential of at least of 1400 mV was applied followed by 750 mV to reduce AuO . Upon reduction to C the contact angle returned to 77 similar to the contact angle of A.

The ionic selectivity of the nanoporous membranes can be evaluated by measuring the transmembrane voltage which arises when different concentrations of salt are placed on each side of the membrane. The transmembrane voltage V in volts at room temperature for a singly charged 1 1 salt can be described by the following equation 

To evaluate the directionality of the membranes selectivity the positive terminal of a voltmeter was always attached to the left side of the cell. Both sides were filled with 0.1 mM NaCl and the potential was allowed to equilibrate to 0 2 mV. If equilibration was not achieved within 30 minutes the cell was rinsed with deionized water and refilled with 0.1 mM NaCl. The concentration of aqueous NaCl on one side of the membrane was then fixed at 0.1 mM while the concentration on the other side was varied from 0.1 mM to 1 M. At each concentration the voltage was allowed to stabilize after which it was stable to within 2 mV over several hours. Then the sides were switched with a constant 0.1 mM aqueous NaCl on the other side of the cell.

The selectivity of cylindrical nanopores before gold plating after gold plating and functionalized with diazonium molecules or are presented in . Error bars indicate the experimental variability for membranes synthesized under the same conditions. The polycarbonate membranes themselves display minimal voltages indicating little to no ionic selectivity. Even though the surface carbonate groups should be deprotonated at pH 5.7 the relatively large pore diameter 40 nm is insufficient to screen charge. Upon gold plating and subsequent chloride ion adsorption ionic selectivity increases. This behavior is seen in the larger voltages at intermediate ratios of salt solutions. At larger ratios of salt concentrations however selectivity decreases due to a smaller electrochemical double layer resulting in less effective screening. Upon addition of negatively charged A ionic selectivity is significantly enhanced due to decreased pore size from both physical occlusion and increased hydrophobicity. Addition of A or A to the gold plated membranes however decreases the observed ionic selectivity as A and A possess minimal charge. From these results it is clear that electrografting diazonium molecules to the nanopore walls drastically changes the ionic selectivity of the gold plated membranes.

Diazonium molecules and each impart a unique predictable effect on the ionic selectivity of the nanoporous membranes as shown in . allows ionic selectivity to be switched from cation selective A to anion selective B as seen in . This change in selectivity is attributed to the irreversible reduction of a negatively charged nitro group to a positively charged amino group. The selectivity of B may be less than that of A due to incomplete surface coverage allowing chloride adsorption to negate some of the positively charged amines. Selectivity may also decrease due to an increase in effective pore diameter caused by the decrease in hydrophobicity upon reduction of A to B.

Molecule allows for a modest increase in cationic selectivity by switching from the uncharged states of A and B to the slightly acidic hydroquinone of C. At pH 5.7 C exhibits a low surface charge resulting in a lower level of selectivity as compared to A or B yet it is clearly distinct from A and B as depicted in .

No appreciable directionality is seen in ionic selectivity through the cylindrical nanopore membranes in similar transmembrane potentials are recorded whether the 0.1 mM concentration is fixed on the left positive x axis in or right side of the cell. This effect is altered however when conical nanopores are used. shows the effect of nanopore shape on the ionic selectivity of membranes functionalized with molecule and electrochemically switched to B. For the cylindrical nanopores the ratio of the magnitude of the voltage at x 4 to that at x 4 is 1.2. For the conical nanopores etched for 0.5 hr 1.0 hr and 1.5 hr this ratio is 2.9 1.7 1.3 respectively. Increased ionic selectivity is only seen in conical nanopores when the narrow end of the pore is paired with the 0.1 mM salt concentration. In similar trends in ionic selectivity are shown for all states of for each of the conical nanopore sizes investigated in this report. C may exhibit slightly higher selectivity than A due to the slight acidity of the hydroxyl group in C as compared to the methoxy group of A. From these results it is concluded that the conical nanopore shape creates a directionality in the selectivity of the membrane consistent with reports on single nanopores. See Z. Siwy et al. 94 048102 2005 .

The present invention has been described as a method to fabricate functionalized conical nanopores. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

