---

title: Aggregator system having a platform for engaging mobile device users
abstract: Methods and systems are presented for attracting and engaging a user for a merchant system. A selectable option associated with the merchant system is displayed on a client device associated with a user. An indication of a user selection of the selectable option is received, and a content page is provided to the client device in response to the indication. Customer relationship management (CRM) information associated with the user of the client device is received from a carrier system associated with the client device. A transaction is processed for the user on behalf of the merchant system, based on the CRM information, and data associated with the user and the transaction are output to the merchant system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454773&OS=09454773&RS=09454773
owner: Danal Inc.
number: 09454773
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140812
---
The present disclosure relates to an aggregator system that implements a platform for attracting and engaging users of mobile devices on behalf of merchant systems and more particularly relates to an aggregator system that communicates with a carrier system in order to more effectively engage users of mobile devices.

Methods and systems are provided for attracting and engaging new users for a merchant system. Typically advertising is performed to attract new users to a merchant system where the advertising is usually controlled by the merchant system. A merchant system may be web server that publishes an online ecommerce website or any other entity that provides products services or both. Processing a transaction such as a new user registration to engage attracted new users has proven to be a cumbersome process. The new users must complete transaction related information including payment information which may be tedious and difficult to enter on a client device such as a mobile phone. Accordingly the present disclosure provides an aggregator system capable of attracting and engaging users for a merchant system in a more streamlined and less cumbersome manner by advertising products or services provided by a merchant to attract users associated with client devices engaging the users by processing one or more transactions for the users based on respective user information and providing data associated with engaged users and data associated with the processed transactions to the merchant system.

In some embodiments an aggregator system causes a selectable option associated with a merchant system to be displayed on a client device. The aggregator system further receives an indication of a user selection of the selectable option and provides a content page to the client device in response to the user selection of the selectable option. The aggregator system further receives CRM information from a carrier system in response to the user selection of the selectable option where the CRM information is associated with the user. The aggregator system further processes a transaction for the user on behalf of a merchant system based at least in part on the CRM information. The aggregator system further communicates data associated with the user and data associated with the transaction to the merchant system.

In some embodiments an aggregator method includes displaying a selectable option associated with a merchant system on a client device associated with a user. The aggregator method further includes receiving an indication of a user selection of the selectable option and providing a content page to the client device based on the user selection of the selectable option. The aggregator method further includes receiving CRM information from the carrier system in response to the user selection of the selectable option where the CRM information is associated with the user. The aggregator method further includes processing a transaction for the user on behalf of the merchant system based at least in part on the CRM information. The aggregator method further includes communicating data associated with the user and data associated with the transaction to the merchant system.

In some embodiments a non transitory computer readable medium has stored instructions that when executed direct a mobile customer acquisition platform MCAP to display a selectable option associated with a merchant system on a client device associated with a user. The instructions when executed further direct a client device input to receive an indication of a user selection of the selectable option. The instructions when executed further direct the MCAP to provide a content page to the client device based on the user selection of the selectable option. The instructions when executed further direct a carrier input to receive CRM information associated with the user in response to the user selection of the selectable option. The instructions when executed further direct the MCAP to process a transaction on behalf of the merchant system based at least in part on the CRM information. The instructions when executed further direct a merchant output to output data associated with the user and data associated with the transaction to the merchant system.

The present disclosure is directed towards attracting new users for a merchant system and using user related information to engage the new users for the merchant system. Techniques for attracting users to a product or service offered by a merchant in the mobile device context for example can rely on delivering digital advertisements to users mobile devices from a server controlled by a third party entity or controlled by the merchant whose products or services are being promoted by the delivered advertisements. These digital advertisements which are displayed on the recipient mobile device s display screen can by selected by the user e.g. by touching the displayed advertisement on a touch sensitive display . The selection of the advertisement can result in content being delivered e.g. in the form of a web page from a server controlled by for example the merchant. In some cases the merchant may desire to have new users register an account which may include a payment transaction in response to a user selecting a delivered advertisement. For example an online dating service may be promoted by a delivered digital advertisement the selection of which will present the user with a form to fill out to process a payment in order to register the user with the online dating service. Often times these types of forms are tedious to fill out and provide for a less than ideal experience for the user. In addition sophisticated merchant systems are often required to implement the ability to deliver digital advertisements and to process responses thereto.

In order to provide a more efficient and pleasant experience and in order to avoid requiring sophisticated merchant system infrastructures an aggregator system distinct from the merchant system may be used to implement a platform that delivers digital advertisements to mobile devices including targeted advertisements and also processes the selection of the advertisements by users including payment and registration transactions. In order to streamline the process of entering into a transaction and to create a more pleasant experience for the user the aggregator system may be a trusted system that is able to communicate with carrier systems such as AT T associated with mobile devices. The aggregator system can retrieve personal information from the carrier system associated with an account of a user of a mobile device who desires to enter into a transaction with a merchant by virtue of selecting a delivered digital advertisement where the aggregator system first receives consent from the user to retrieve the personal information. This information can be used in processing the transaction by the aggregator system and will avoid the need to have the user enter that information manually. When the aggregator system processes a new user transaction information may then be communicated to the merchant system regarding the processed transaction.

For example an aggregator system of the present invention may advertise a product or service provided by a merchant system to attract a new user and may receive and use information related to the new user to pre populate data fields related to a transaction necessary to engage the new user such as a payment transaction or a registration. The user related information may be for example customer relationship management CRM information stored at a carrier system. The user may be associated with a client device for example a mobile phone and may have an account with the carrier system. The carrier system provides mobile network services to the client device. In the United States examples of carrier systems include systems operated by Verizon AT T and Sprint among others. CRM information as referred to herein is understood to refer to any suitable user specific data including personal information such as for example name address telephone number email client device location payment information any other suitable information or any combination thereof. A carrier system typically stores CRM information associated with its users. Attempts are made by the carrier system to keep its stored CRM information secure because of the sensitive nature of the personal information contained therein.

In accordance with the present disclosure a system is provided that is configured to access CRM information stored at the carrier system and to use the CRM information to attract and engage new users for a merchant system. In some embodiments this is accomplished by advertising a product or service provided by a merchant using CRM information associated with users who select the advertisement to process transactions for these users and communicating user information and transaction information to the merchant system. This provides a merchant system with new users without requiring the merchant system to directly attract and engage the new users.

Aggregator system may be any suitable system which acts as an intermediary between two or more systems such as between client device and carrier system merchant system and carrier system client device and merchant system between any other systems and devices or any combination thereof. Aggregator system may act as an intermediary by facilitating the communication of information such as payment information e.g. credit card information PayPal information routing number data bank account information billing address legal name social security number any other suitable information related to making a payment or any combination thereof and or registration information e.g. name address email phone number social security number payment information any other suitable information or any combination thereof between two systems. It should be understood that protected information associated with a user such as a social security number may only be accessed by trusted systems and devices to which permission has been granted by the user. In some embodiments certain personal information such as social security number information need not be accessed stored and or used by aggregator system . Aggregator system may be trusted by carrier system and may access CRM information stored in carrier system for secure communication to merchant system or client device . An example of aggregator system is the system developed and operated by Danal Inc. doing business as BilltoMobile located in San Jose Calif. which provides mobile payment services to merchants using data provided by United States carrier systems. In some embodiments of the present disclosure aggregator system may be configured to provide CRM information to client device or merchant system for use in a transaction via network .

Merchant system may be any suitable one or more entities capable of entering into a transaction with a client device. Examples of a transaction include a purchase transaction for goods services or both provided by merchant system a money transfer a bill payment a transaction that results in access to banking information banking services or both any other suitable transaction or any combination thereof. Merchant system may include for example a web server that publishes a website which requires personal information e.g. payment information registration information . Examples of merchant system include systems operated by Amazon.com Citibank freecreditscore.com among others. In some embodiments merchant system may be configured to communicate with client device e.g. enable a transaction using network .

Carrier system may be any suitable system which provides mobile network services to client device . Providing mobile network services to client device may include providing a carrier network to client device . For example a carrier system may be a system operated by Verizon Sprint or AT T.

Client device is any suitable hardware circuitry software or both that can be used to conduct a transaction with merchant system using the carrier network provided by carrier system . In some embodiments a client device of the present disclosure may be a mobile phone. A mobile phone may be associated with a mobile phone number a carrier system any other mobile phone identification information or any combination thereof. A client device may be a tablet device laptop device any other suitable client device mobile or otherwise or any combination thereof. In some embodiments carrier system may include or have access to CRM information associated with client device and may be configured to communicate the CRM information to aggregator system via network .

Communication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to communicate with database and processing equipment and may include inputs outputs any other mechanisms which facilitate communication with other systems and devices or any combination thereof. An input or output is a relative communication channel that can be used to receive or send data respectively. A communication channel may be established as for example an IP protocol based communications session using any suitable network infrastructure including the Internet any proprietary LAN WAN any other suitable network infrastructure or any combination thereof. Inputs and outputs may be implemented as one or more physical ports a data storage device any other suitable hardware circuitry interface software interface or any combination thereof. For example aggregator system may include a carrier input coupled to a carrier system and configured to receive data from the carrier system a carrier output coupled to the carrier system and configured to output data to the carrier system a merchant input coupled to a merchant system and configured to receive data from the merchant system a merchant output coupled to the merchant system and configured to output data to the merchant system a client device input coupled to a client device and configured to receive data from the client device a client device output coupled to the client device and configured to output data to the client device any other suitable input or output or any combination thereof. While different inputs and outputs are described it will be understood that they need not be separate components and two or more of the inputs and or outputs may be implemented as a single component that can be used to send or receive data relative to more than one destination or source respectively. For example communication circuitry may include a transceiver such as an Ethernet card or any other suitable device or circuitry which facilitates communication with other systems and devices.

Storage system may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing one or more databases and information related to for example merchant data client device data user data authentication rules and carrier data. For example storage system may include database . In some embodiments storage system may store information which is not stored in database such as information related to for example application programming interfaces APIs HTML for content pages any other suitable information and any combination thereof.

Database may include any suitable hardware circuitry software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing information related to for example merchant data client device data user data and carrier data. Information related to merchant data may include for example stock keeping units SKUs related to goods for sale customer service contact information e.g. a phone number an email address a hyperlink for a website data related to criteria for revoking authentication any other merchant data or any combination thereof. Information related to client device data may include for example a mobile device number identification information associated with a client device any other client device data or any combination thereof. In some embodiments database may store encrypted information. For example hashed information may be generated using a hash operation and the hashed information may be stored in database .

Processing equipment may be configured to process data received from other systems and devices e.g. a client device a merchant system a carrier system or any other suitable system or device process data to be output to other systems and devices generate data e.g. generate authentication information analyze data e.g. identify a client device based on identification information and perform other tasks. In some embodiments processing equipment may include one or more circuitries for performing the functionality as described herein such as mobile customer acquisition platform MCAP request processing circuitry data verification circuitry data integration circuitry identification circuitry advertising circuitry any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. The circuitries within processing equipment may communicate with one another to implement the features as described herein. Additionally the circuitries within processing equipment may all be implemented together on one or more devices. In some embodiments processing equipment may communicate with communication circuitry and database to retrieve or transmit information e.g. identification information authentication information any other suitable information or any combination thereof . For example processing equipment may send identifying information associated with a client device such as a mobile phone number to database to retrieve additional information related to the client device or user in possession of the client device. Processing equipment may be any suitable software hardware circuitry or both sufficient to implement the circuitries within. For example processing equipment may include one or more microprocessors.

Advertising circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to provide digital advertisements intended to be displayed on a display screen of a client device. For example advertising circuitry may be at least a portion or one or more integrated circuit processors. Advertisements may be for example advertisements related to the promotion of a product or service provided by a merchant through a system operated by the merchant referred to herein as a merchant system which term shall generally refer to the merchant and its associated system. For example advertising circuitry may be configured to provide advertisements for the promotion of an online dating service provided by a merchant through an associated merchant system. In some embodiments aggregator system may deliver the advertisements to a client device such as client device of using an advertising network or any other suitable entity which enables the delivery of advertisements. An advertising network may be any suitable entity that provides access to one or more websites capable of hosting advertisements. The client device may display advertisements on its display screen using any suitable software hardware circuitry or both on the client device.

In some embodiments advertisements may be targeted advertisements. Targeted advertisements may be for example any advertisements targeted to be delivered to a specific subset of users associated with respective client devices based on one or more parameters such as the carrier system associated with the respective client devices of the users information related to the age of the users information related to the gender of the users information related to the geographic location of the users any other suitable parameter or any combination thereof. In some embodiments aggregator system may determine information for example age information about the users of respective client devices and may decide based on this information which advertisements to deliver to which client devices. For example advertising circuitry may provide an advertisement for the promotion of an online dating service provided by a merchant through an associated merchant system where the advertisement is targeted to be delivered to client devices belonging to users who are male and have an age between twenty five and thirty five. In some embodiments advertising circuitry may be configured to communicate for example using communication circuitry with any suitable entities that have the ability to target the delivery of advertisements to specific users. For example aggregator system may have a partnership or an agreement with a media buying company able to target the delivery of advertisements to users between the ages of forty and fifty and advertising circuitry may deliver advertisements based on information related to users between the ages of forty and fifty that is received from the media buying company via communication circuitry .

An advertisement displayed on a client device may be selectable by a user for example as a hyperlink in a web browser. When an advertisement is selected by a user the user may be provided with additional information about the product or service being promoted by the advertisement. For example a user may select an advertisement that includes information about a discounted dating membership offered by a merchant system where the advertisement is displayed on a client device belonging to the user and in response the client device may display pricing information related to and benefits included in the discounted dating membership being promoted by the advertisement. Advertising circuitry may be at least partially implemented as a part of MCAP .

MCAP may be any suitable software hardware circuitry or both configured to provide an integrated platform that allows aggregator system to perform functions on behalf of a merchant system and to engage users in connection with a product or service provided by the merchant system. In other words MCAP may provide a more streamlined process for engaging new users for a merchant system. In some embodiments features that are used to engage a user associated with a client device may include for example providing content pages e.g. webpages to client devices related to products or services provided by a merchant system retrieving information associated with a user of a client device e.g. CRM information temporarily storing information associated with a user of a client device processing a transaction for a user of a client device any other suitable feature or any combination thereof. It should be understood that aggregator system or any processing equipment thereof for example MCAP may temporarily store CRM information associated with a user solely for the purpose of providing information where aggregator system acts as an intermediary between systems and client devices such that the user s privacy is preserved. For example aggregator system may temporarily store CRM information associated with a user of a client device until the information is communicated to a merchant system where aggregator system is configured to act as an intermediary between the merchant system and the client device. If aggregator system or any processing equipment thereof for example MCAP is deemed to be a trusted system by a carrier system that stores CRM information and if permission is granted to aggregator system by the carrier system then aggregator system or any processing equipment or database thereof may be configured to store CRM information.

In some embodiments MCAP may be configured to provide a content page to a client device to be displayed when a user selects an advertisement. A content page may be for example a webpage or any other suitable document including static or dynamic content. A content page may include for example additional information related to the product or service being promoted by the selected advertisement. For example advertising circuitry may provide an advertisement to a client device that advertises a gym membership offered by a merchant system and MCAP may be configured to provide a webpage with additional information related to pricing for and benefits included in the gym membership being promoted when a user selects e.g. clicks on the advertisement. A content page may include specific information related to a product or service being promoted by a selected advertisement such as for example pricing information a description of products and or services being promoted by the advertisement any other suitable information or any combination thereof. In some embodiments a content page may also include data fields related to user information and information required for a transaction where the data fields must be completed for the user to participate in the product or service promoted by the advertisement. For example a user may select an advertisement related to a promotion for a one month gym membership and upon user selection of the advertisement MCAP may display content page on the user s client device which includes information indicating that the gym membership is 24.99 month benefits information included in the gym membership data fields related to creating a new user account with the gym and data fields related to processing a payment of 24.99.

MCAP may determine when to provide a content page to a client device based on a received request to display a content page. For example when a user selects an advertisement on a client device advertising circuitry may request MCAP to provide a content page with additional information related to the product or service being promoted by the advertisement. In some embodiments when advertising circuitry provides targeted advertisements based on information received from third party entity the third party entity may be configured to request MCAP to provide a content page in response to a user selection of an advertisement. In other embodiments advertising circuitry or any other suitable entity or processing equipment may request that MCAP provide a content page in response to a user selection of an advertisement. A request for MCAP to provide a content page to a client device may include calling an MCAP uniform resource locator URL . In response to a call to the MCAP URL MCAP may provide a content page e.g. webpage to a client device for example by redirecting a web browser on the client device to a URL that corresponds to the content page. As used herein the term web browser may include within its scope any suitable software for displaying webpages. For example when a user selects an advertisement related to a promotion for a product or service provided by a merchant through an associated merchant system advertising circuitry may call the MCAP URL and in response the MCAP URL may redirect the user s client device web browser to a URL that corresponds to a content page with additional information regarding the product or service being promoted by the advertisement.

In some embodiments MCAP may be configured to provide content pages having a layout that is optimized for a client device established by code written in for example HTML 5 Javascript any other suitable programming language or any combination thereof. In some embodiments MCAP may be configured to provide more than one content page and may be configured to transition from a first content page to a second content page based on user selection of the first content page. For example MCAP may provide content page A in response to a MCAP URL call and may be configured to provide content page B in response to a user selection of content included in content page A. Additionally MCAP may be configured to provide different content pages for different selected advertisements. In some embodiments parameters identifying the selected advertisement or the product or service being promoted by the selected advertisement may be provided when the MCAP URL is called. For example MCAP may be configured to provide one content page in response to a MCAP URL call that indicates a user selection of an advertisement A and may be configured to provide a different content page in response to a MCAP URL call that indicates a user selection of an advertisement B where advertisement B is different from advertisement A.

In some embodiments MCAP may be configured to receive CRM information associated with a user of an identified client device. A client device may be identified for example using identification circuitry of aggregator system . MCAP may receive CRM information from for example a carrier system associated with the client device of a user. In some embodiments MCAP may temporarily store CRM information for example in a database such as database . In some embodiments MCAP may use the CRM information to process a transaction such as for example a purchase transaction a user registration a user account creation a request for additional information related to a merchant system any other suitable transaction or any combination thereof. In some embodiments MCAP may process a transaction by pre populating data fields related to the transaction included in a content page. For example a user may select an advertisement for a dating membership for 30 the user may be identified by aggregator system and MCAP may provide a content page to be displayed on the user s client device that includes data fields related to processing a payment for 30. In this example MCAP may be configured to access CRM information for the identified user and to pre populate the data fields related to processing a payment for 30 based on the CRM information.

In some embodiments MCAP may be configured to process a transaction using one or more APIs stored in aggregator system . The APIs stored in aggregator system may be stored in a database such as database and may enable MCAP to connect with APIs of a merchant system to perform functions such as processing a transaction on behalf of the merchant system. The APIs stored in aggregator system may be configured to integrate with the APIs of a merchant system such that the merchant system APIs need not integrate with the APIs stored by aggregator system . MCAP may use APIs stored in aggregator system to process a transaction by including one or more APIs in a content page. For example MCAP may be configured to display a content page that includes data fields required to create a new user account with a merchant system and code that when executed calls an API which enables account creation on behalf of the merchant system such that a user viewing the content page may create an account with the merchant system.

Identification circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired circuitry or both to identify a client device based on client device identification information. For example identification circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Identifying a client device may enable aggregator system to access information associated with the client device to communicate with the client device to authenticate the client device to process a transaction on the client device to perform any other suitable action or any combination thereof. A client device may be identified for example by way of a mobile originated MO message identification technique a mobile terminated MT identification technique a header enrichment identification technique any other suitable identification technique or any combination thereof. In some embodiments client device identification circuitry may be configured to store client device identification information in a database such as database and may be configured to identify a client device based at least in part on information stored in database . Client device identification information may include for example information identifying a mobile phone number associated with the client device information identifying a carrier system associated with the client device information identifying software or hardware circuitry of the client device information identifying a user in possession of the client device any other suitable identification information or any combination thereof. For example client device identification circuitry may identify a client device by identifying and storing a mobile phone number associated with a client device based on client device identification information which is received from a carrier system.

Request processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired circuitry or both to process requests from other systems and devices such as merchant system of carrier system of and client device of . For example request processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Requests may include a request to output information a request to accept information such as a rule a request to validate information a request to process a transaction any other suitable request or any combination thereof. In some embodiments one or more requests may be received by communication circuitry and passed from communication circuitry to request processing circuitry . Request processing circuitry may determine an appropriate response to each of the one or more requests such as processing information retrieving information transmitting information any other suitable response or any combination thereof. In some embodiments request processing circuitry may be configured to process and or respond to requests received from other circuitries within processing equipment . For example request processing circuitry may receive a request for information associated with a client device and may in response retrieve information from database and communicate the information to communication circuitry to be output.

Data verification circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired circuitry or both to verify information associated with a client device such as client device of . For example data verification circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In one embodiment aggregator system may receive information associated with a client device from one or more sources and data verification circuitry may be configured to verify the information. In another embodiment request processing circuitry may receive a request from a merchant system to verify information associated with a client device and data verification circuitry may verify the information. Verification may include comparing received information to information stored in database comparing received information to information received from one or more sources deterministic matching probabilistic matching fuzzy matching any other suitable verification technique or any combination thereof. In some embodiments verifying information associated with a client device may include verifying information associated with a user in possession of the client device.

Data integration circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired circuitry or both to integrate information associated with a client device which is received from one or more sources. For example data integration circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In one embodiment aggregator system may receive information associated with a client device from one or more sources and data integration circuitry may integrate the data received from the one or more sources. Data integration may include for example eliminating inconsistencies between information from different sources or between information received from one source and information stored in a database e.g. database eliminating duplicate information from different sources or between information received from one source and information stored in a database e.g. database any other suitable integration technique or any combination thereof. Sources may include interested parties such as for example carrier systems financial institutions utility companies government organizations universities schools any other suitable sources or any combination thereof.

Communication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to communicate with database and processing equipment and may include inputs outputs any other mechanisms which facilitate communication with other systems and devices or any combination thereof. An input or output is a relative communication channel that can be used to receive or send data respectively. A communication channel may be established as for example an IP protocol based communications session using any suitable network infrastructure including the Internet any proprietary LAN WAN any other suitable network infrastructure or any combination thereof. Inputs and outputs may be implemented as one or more physical ports a data storage device any other suitable hardware circuitry interface software interface or any combination thereof. For example merchant system may include a carrier input coupled to a carrier system and configured to receive data from the carrier system a carrier output coupled to the carrier system and configured to output data to the carrier system an aggregator input coupled to an aggregator system and configured to receive data from the aggregator system an aggregator output coupled to the aggregator system and configured to output data to the aggregator system a client device input coupled to a client device and configured to receive data from the client device a client device output coupled to the client device and configured to output data to the client device any other suitable input or output or any combination thereof. In the context of the present disclosure it may be preferential for merchant system to not include a carrier input and a carrier output. That is merchant system need not be able to communicate with a carrier system in preferred embodiments of the present disclosure. While different inputs and outputs are described it will be understood that they need not be separate components and two or more of the inputs and or outputs may indeed be implemented as a single component that can be used to send or receive data relative to more than one destination or source respectively. Examples of communication circuitry include transceivers such as a network port e.g. an Ethernet port a WiFi card or any other suitable device or circuitry which facilitates communication with other systems and devices.

Storage system may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing one or more databases and information related to for example merchant data client device data user data authentication rules and carrier data. For example storage system may include database . In some embodiments storage system may store information which is not stored in database such as information related to merchant data for example APIs HTML for content pages any other suitable information and any combination thereof.

Database may include one or more data storage systems capable of storing information related to for example merchant data client device data user data and carrier data. Information related to merchant data may include for example APIs HTML for content pages merchant identification information payload information data related to criteria for revoking authentication any other merchant data or any combination thereof. Information related to client device data may include for example a mobile device number identification information associated with a client device any other client device data or any combination thereof. Information related to user data may include for example authentication information for an authenticated user credential information for an authenticated user any other user related information or any combination thereof. Carrier data may include for example the carrier network associated with a client device. In some embodiments database may store information in an encrypted form. For example hashed information may be generated using a hash operation and the hashed information may be stored in database .

Processing equipment may be configured to process data received from other systems and devices e.g. a client device an aggregator system or any other suitable system or device process data to be output to other systems and devices generate data analyze data e.g. confirm authentication information provided by a client device and perform other tasks. In some embodiments processing equipment may include one or more circuitries for performing the functionality as described herein such as user account management circuitry encryption circuitry request processing circuitry transaction processing circuitry any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. The circuitries within processing equipment may communicate with one another to implement the features described herein. Additionally the circuitries within processing equipment may all be implemented together on one or more devices. Processing equipment may communicate with communication circuitry and database to retrieve and or transmit information. For example processing equipment may retrieve credential information associated with a user in possession of a client device from database before allowing a transaction to be made on the client device. Processing equipment may be any suitable software hardware circuitry or both sufficient to implement the circuitries within.

User account management circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to manage user information and transactions associated with the users. For example user account management circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments user information and transaction information may be received for example by an aggregator system such as aggregator system which is configured to attract and engage new users for merchant system . The aggregator system may communicate the user information and transaction information to merchant system and merchant system may receive the information using communication circuitry . Communication circuitry may communicate the information to user account management circuitry . In some embodiments user account management circuitry may be configured to associate information related to a transaction with information for a user who engaged in the transaction such that the user may gain access to benefits associated with a transaction. For example account management circuitry may receive information associated with a user may separately receive information associated with a transaction for a healthcare membership made by the user and may associate the transaction with the user such that the user is granted access to the healthcare membership benefits. Account management circuitry may transmit and receive information to and from database . For example account management circuitry may associate user related information with received transaction related information and may transmit the associated user and transaction related information to database .

Encryption circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to encrypt decrypt or both information such as for example a payload information to be stored in database any other suitable information or any combination thereof. For example encryption circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Encrypting information may protect the information from being stolen hacked or otherwise leaked to a source which does not have permission to access the information. In some embodiments information may be encrypted using an encryption key such as a symmetric key an asymmetric key any other suitable encryption method or any combination thereof. For example an aggregator system may provision a merchant system with an encryption key and the merchant system may use the encryption key to encrypt information. In some embodiments the advanced encryption standard AES or any other suitable strong symmetric key block cipher should be used when information is encrypted by encryption circuitry . In some embodiments information to be encrypted may include a payload generated by payload generation circuitry . Merchant system may pass a payload encrypted by encryption circuitry to a client device and the encrypted payload may facilitate client initiated interaction between a client device and an aggregator system. An encrypted payload may be unique for a client device but not unique for each request made by the client device.

Request processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process requests from other systems and devices for example carrier system of aggregator system of or client device of . For example request processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Requests may include a request to output information such as identification information or authentication information a request to accept information any other suitable request or any combination thereof. In some embodiments one or more requests may be received by communication circuitry and passed from communication circuitry to request processing circuitry . Request processing circuitry may determine an appropriate response to each of the one or more requests for example processing information generating information analyzing information communicating with another circuitry within processing equipment transmitting data to database receiving data from database any other appropriate response or any combination thereof. In some embodiments request processing circuitry may process respond to or both requests received from other circuitries within processing equipment .

Transaction processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired circuitry or both to process a transaction made on a client device. For example transaction processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Processing a transaction may include for example submitting payment information completing a sale any other suitable process or any combination thereof. A transaction may be a purchase transaction a registration any other suitable process or any combination thereof. In some embodiments transaction processing circuitry may use data stored in database to process a transaction. In other embodiments transaction processing circuitry may use data received from another system such as an aggregator system to process a transaction. For example a client device may visit a website associated with merchant system to make a purchase transaction and merchant system may receive information from an aggregator system such as aggregator system of to process the purchase transaction. In some embodiments transaction processing circuitry may pre populate transaction data fields with information received from another system or device or information received form database .

Communication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to communicate with database and processing equipment and may include inputs outputs any other mechanisms which facilitate communication with other systems and devices or any combination thereof. An input or output is a relative communication channel that can be used to receive or send data respectively. A communication channel may be established as for example an IP protocol based communications session using any suitable network infrastructure including the Internet any proprietary LAN WAN any other suitable network infrastructure or any combination thereof. Inputs and outputs can be implemented as one or more physical ports a data storage device any other suitable hardware circuitry interface software interface or any combination thereof. For example carrier system may include an aggregator input coupled to an aggregator system and configured to receive data from the aggregator system an aggregator output coupled to the aggregator system and configured to output data to the aggregator system a merchant input coupled to a merchant system and configured to receive data from the merchant system a merchant output coupled to the merchant system and configured to output data to the merchant system a client device input coupled to a client device and configured to receive data from the client device a client device output coupled to the client device and configured to output data to the client device any other suitable input or output or any combination thereof. In the context of the present disclosure it may be preferential for carrier system to not include a merchant input and a merchant output. That is carrier system need not be able to communicate with a merchant system in preferred embodiments of the present disclosure. While different inputs and outputs are described it will be understood that they need not be separate components and two or more of the inputs and or outputs may indeed be implemented as a single component that can be used to send or receive data relative to more than one destination or source respectively. Examples of communication circuitry include transceivers such as a network port e.g. an Ethernet port a WiFi card or any other suitable device or circuitry which facilitates communication with other systems and devices.

Storage system may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing one or more databases and information related to for example account data rules and CRM information associated with a user in possession of a client device. For example storage system may include database . In some embodiments storage system may store information which is not stored in database and carrier system may be configured to communicate such information to a trusted aggregator system such as aggregator system .

Database may include one or more data storage systems capable of storing information related to for example account data and CRM information associated with a user in possession of a client device. In some embodiments database may store information in an encrypted form. For example hashed information may be generated using a hash operation and the hashed information may be stored in database .

Processing equipment may be configured to process data received from other systems and devices e.g. a client device an aggregator system or any other suitable system or device process data to be output to other systems and devices e.g. CRM information and perform other tasks. In some embodiments processing equipment may include one or more circuitries for performing the functionality as described herein such as message creation circuitry redirect circuitry request processing circuitry CRM information retrieval circuitry any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. The circuitries within processing equipment may communicate with one another to implement the features as described herein. Additionally the circuitries within processing equipment may be implemented together on one or more devices. Processing equipment may be configured to communicate with communication circuitry and database to retrieve and or transmit information related to user account data CRM information any other information or any combination thereof. Processing equipment may be any suitable software hardware circuitry or both sufficient to implement the circuitries within.

Message creation circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to create a message such as for example a short message service SMS message a silent SMS message any other suitable type of message or any combination thereof. For example message creation circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments message creation circuitry may be configured to generate an SMS message in response to a request from another system or device such as aggregator system of or client device of . For example carrier system may receive a request to generate an SMS message and send it to a client device and message creation circuitry may create the SMS message and may specify that the message should be sent to the mobile phone number of the client device.

Redirect circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to redirect for example a request information or both from one location e.g. a system to another. For example redirect circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments redirect circuitry may be configured to redirect an SMS message from one system or device to another system or device. In other embodiments redirect circuitry may be configured to perform an http redirect from a website associated with one system to a website associated with another system. Redirect circuitry may additionally be configured to perform any other suitable redirect from one system to another. In some embodiments redirect circuitry may receive instructions which cause the redirect to be performed. In some embodiments redirect circuitry may receive such instructions from request processing circuitry .

Request processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process requests from other systems and devices for example aggregator system of or client device of . For example request processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Requests may include a request for information such as user account information or CRM information any other suitable request or any combination thereof. One or more requests may be received by communication circuitry and passed from communication circuitry to request processing circuitry . Request processing circuitry may determine an appropriate response to each of the one or more requests such as processing information communicating with another circuitry within processing equipment transmitting data to database receiving data from database any other appropriate response or any combination thereof. In some embodiments request processing circuitry may process respond or both to requests received from other circuitries within processing equipment .

CRM information retrieval circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired circuitry or both to retrieve CRM information associated with a client device. For example CRM information retrieval circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments CRM information may include information related to an account associated with a user in possession of a client device e.g. payment information name address social security number etc. or any other suitable information which may be obtained through interactions between carrier system and a client device. CRM information retrieval circuitry may be configured to retrieve appropriate CRM information from database . In some embodiments CRM information retrieval circuitry may be configured to retrieve appropriate CRM information in response to a request received from request processing circuitry . For example an aggregator system such as aggregator system of may request CRM information associated with an identified client device from carrier system and CRM information retrieval circuitry may retrieve the requested CRM information and provide it to communication circuitry to be output to the aggregator system.

Display may be configured to display any information stored on or received by client device in any suitable format. Information displayed may include for example information requested by a user of client device information related to client device information related to a transaction information related to an mobile application information received from another system or device information to be sent to another system or device an SMS message any other suitable information or any combination thereof. Display may be for example a flat panel display such as a liquid crystal display plasma display any other suitable display or any combination thereof.

Power supply may be configured to supply power to client device . Power supply may be any suitable internal or external power source such as for example a battery.

Speaker may be configured to provide audible sound. The audible sound may be related to a phone call on client device an application running on client device an alarm set on client device a transaction any other suitable process or application or any combination thereof.

Microphone may be configured to receive user input such as for example audible user input. The inputs received by microphone may include information related to for example a phone call on client device a user in possession of client device a transaction any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

Keyboard may be configured to receive user input such as for example text input. The inputs received by keyboard may be information related to for example a message stored on or created on client device a user in possession of client device a transaction any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

Communication circuitry may include inputs outputs any other mechanisms which facilitate communication with other systems and devices or any combination thereof. Communication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both. An input or output is a relative communication channel that can be used to receive or send data respectively. A communication channel may be established as for example an IP protocol based communications session using any suitable network infrastructure including the Internet any proprietary LAN WAN any other suitable network infrastructure or any combination thereof. Inputs and outputs can be implemented as one or more physical ports a data storage device any other suitable hardware circuitry interface software interface or any combination thereof. For example client device may include a carrier input coupled to a carrier system and configured to receive data from the carrier system a carrier output coupled to the carrier system and configured to output data to the carrier system a merchant input coupled to a merchant system and configured to receive data from the merchant system a merchant output coupled to the merchant system and configured to output data to the merchant system an aggregator input coupled to an aggregator system and configured to receive data from the aggregator system an aggregator output coupled to the aggregator system and configured to output data to the aggregator system any other suitable input or output or any combination thereof. While different inputs and outputs are described it will be understood that they need not be separate components and two or more of the inputs and or outputs may indeed be implemented as a single component that can be used to send or receive data relative to more than one destination or source respectively. Examples of communication circuitry include transceivers such as a network port e.g. an Ethernet port a WiFi card or any other suitable device or circuitry which facilitates communication with other systems and devices. Communication circuitry may be configured to communicate with memory processing equipment speaker microphone keyboard power supply and display .

Memory may be one or more suitable memory devices such as for example a hard disk drive flash memory RAM an optical disk any other suitable memory device or any combination thereof. Memory may include identification information and other information . Identification information may include any suitable identification information related to client device . For example identification information may include hardware circuitry or software information associated with client device a mobile phone number associated with client device device model related information associated with client device information related to a user in possession of client device information related to a carrier system associated with client device any other suitable identification information or any combination thereof. Other information may include any information stored in memory other than identification information . For example other information may store information related to applications messaging photos and videos transactions merchants networks capacity and storage any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

Processing equipment may be configured to process data received from other systems and devices e.g. a merchant system a carrier system an aggregator system or any other suitable system or device process data to be output to other systems and devices process data related to mobile applications and perform other tasks. In some embodiments processing equipment may include one or more circuitries for performing the functionality as described herein such as authentication circuitry processing circuitry any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. The circuitries within processing equipment may communicate with one another to implement the features as described herein. Additionally the circuitries within processing equipment may all be implemented together on one or more devices. Processing equipment may be configured to communicate with communication circuitry memory speaker microphone keyboard power supply and display . Processing equipment may be any suitable software hardware circuitry or both sufficient to implement the circuitries within.

Authentication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to authenticate client device . For example authentication circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated processors. In some embodiments authenticating client device may include authenticating a user in possession of client device . In some embodiments authentication circuitry may communicate with a system such as a merchant system or an aggregator system via communication circuitry in order to authenticate client device . Authenticating client device may include prompting a user in possession of client device to input information. Information may be input via display keyboard microphone any other suitable user input or any combination thereof. Information may include for example uniquely identifying information related to the user in possession of client device . In some embodiments authentication circuitry may communicate with memory to authenticate client device . For example memory may store information received from an aggregator system such as aggregator system of and subsequent to prompting a user in possession of client device for information authentication circuitry may compare the entered information to that stored in memory .

Processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to implement any features other than authentication. For example processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. For example processing circuitry may be configured to run applications to compute information to process instructions to carry out functions related to client device operation to carry out any other suitable operation or implementation or any combination thereof.

At step the aggregator system may cause an advertisement associated with a merchant system to be displayed on a client device. In some embodiments the client device may be associated with a user. The advertisement may be provided by processing equipment such as advertising circuitry of or MCAP of . The advertisement may include information associated with a merchant system such as for example the promotion of a product or service provided by the merchant system. In some embodiments the advertisement may be targeted to be delivered to specific subset of users based on one or more parameters such as for example the carrier system associated with the respective client devices of the users information related to the age of the users information related to the gender of the users information related to the geographic location of the users any other suitable parameters or any combination thereof. For example an advertisement related to the promotion of an online dating membership provided by a merchant system may be targeted to be delivered to client devices belonging to females between the ages of twenty and twenty four.

At step the aggregator system may receive an indication of a user selection of the advertisement displayed at step . A user selection may include for example a user clicking on the advertisement. In some embodiments the indication of a user selection may be received by the aggregator system using communication circuitry of . For example at step an aggregator system may deliver and cause to be displayed on a user s client device an advertisement related to the promotion of a healthcare membership provided by a merchant system and at step the aggregator system may receive an indication at a client device input that the user selected the advertisement related to the promotion of the healthcare membership.

At step the aggregator system may provide a content page to the client device. The content page may be for example a webpage and may be provided in response to the indication of a user selection of the advertisement received at step . The aggregator system may provide the content page using processing equipment such as MCAP of aggregator system . The content page may include additional information related to the product or service being promoted by the advertisement selected as well as data fields related to user information and information required to process a purchase transaction required to receive the product or service being promoted in the selected advertisement. For example in response to a user selection of an advertisement related to the promotion of an online dating service provided by a merchant system the aggregator system may provide a content page to the user s client device that includes additional pricing details about the online dating service being promoted as well as data fields that must be completed to process a payment required to participate in the online dating service.

At step the aggregator system may receive CRM information. The aggregator system may receive CRM information from a carrier system associated with the client device of the user and may receive the CRM information using for example communication component of . In some embodiments the aggregator system may receive CRM information in response to a request made by the aggregator system. The CRM information may be associated with the user and the user may have been identified by the aggregator system prior to the aggregator system receiving the CRM information.

At step the aggregator system may process a transaction for the user on behalf of the merchant system. In some embodiments the transaction may be processed by the aggregator system based on the CRM information associated with the user. Processing the transaction may include for example registering the user with a new account with the merchant system processing a payment for the user on behalf of the merchant system or both. In some embodiments the aggregator system may process the transaction by pre populating data fields related to the transaction included in the content page provided at step . For example a user may select an advertisement for the promotion of a product or service provided by a merchant through an associated merchant system the aggregator system may identify the user based on the user s client device the aggregator may deliver a content page including data fields related to a payment required to receive the product or service being promoted by the advertisement to the user s client device and the aggregator system may pre populate the data fields and process the payment for the user on behalf of the merchant system.

At step the aggregator system may communicate data associated with the user and data associated with the transaction to the merchant system. In some embodiments data associated with the user may include at least a subset of the CRM information associated with the user and data associated with the transaction may include details related to a payment or payment information. The aggregator system may communicate data for example using communication circuitry of .

MCAP URL may be a URL that is called in response to a user selection of an advertisement. The MCAP URL call may include parameters that identify the advertisement selected. The MCAP URL may be called by an aggregator system such as aggregator system or any other suitable processing equipment or entity. In some embodiments the aggregator system may call the MCAP URL to request MCAP to provide a content page to a client device in response to a user selection of an advertisement. The MCAP URL need not provide any content but rather redirects the web browser of the client device to the URL associated with the content page.

Content pages may be provided by MCAP in response to a call to the MCAP URL. Content pages may be for example webpages and may be displayed on a client device using a web browser. Content pages may provide additional information related to a product or service being promoted by an advertisement and may be provided by MCAP in response to a user selection of the advertisement. For example a user may select on a client device an advertisement for the promotion of an online dating service membership an aggregator system may call the MCAP URL and the call may identify the online dating service membership being promoted the MCAP URL may redirect the web browser of the client device to the URL of a content page and the content page may provide additional pricing information related to the online dating service membership being promoted and data fields that must be completed to receive the online dating service membership.

MCAP server may be any suitable software hardware circuitry or both configured to host and implement the features described with respect to the MCAP URL and the content pages and to call APIs included in the content pages. In some embodiments MCAP server may enable the MCAP URL to redirect the web browser of a client device to a URL associated with a content page. In some embodiments the MCAP server may enable APIs included in the content pages to be called to process a transaction.

Merchant system APIs may allow the content pages to perform actions on behalf of a merchant system. Merchant system APIs may be for example APIs stored by aggregator system . In some embodiments these actions may include for example processing a transaction requesting data from the merchant system any other suitable action or any combination thereof. For example a content page may include data fields required to process a user registration and when the data fields are completed a merchant system API may register the user.

Javascript library may include one or more data storage systems capable of storing information related to merchant system APIs . In some embodiments Javascript library may be included in content pages such that the merchant system APIs stored in Javascript library may be called by the content pages to perform actions on behalf of a merchant system. Specifically merchant system APIs may be called by code written in Javascript by code written in any other suitable computer programming language or by any other suitable process or software in the aggregator system or in MCAP .

Payment system may be any suitable software hardware circuitry or both configured to process a payment for a user on behalf of a merchant system. Payment system may be requested to process a payment for a user based on completed data fields in a content page. In some embodiments the content page may include code which when executed is configured to initiate the payment processing performed by payment system .

When a user selects an advertisement on the client device by for example clicking on the advertisement a content page may be provided to the client device by MCAP . MCAP may be any suitable MCAP such as MCAP of or MCAP of . MCAP may provide a content page to be displayed on the client device based on the user selection of an advertisement at entry points . The content page provided may be for example single page user registration . Single page user registration may include data fields related to information which must be completed to register the user with the merchant system. The data fields may be pre populated by MCAP for example based on CRM information received from the carrier system associated with the client device of the user. In some embodiments the client device may be identified for example by identification circuitry of prior to receiving CRM information. The data fields may alternatively be filled out on the client device by the user. Upon completion of the data fields of single page user registration content page one click payment may be provided to and displayed by the client device. Content page one click payment may include data fields related to information required to process a payment on behalf of the merchant system to receive the product or service being promoted by the advertisement selected at entry points . The data fields may be pre populated by MCAP for example based on CRM information received from the carrier system associated with the client device of the user. The data fields may alternatively be filled out on the client device by the user. The information related to the completed data fields of the single page user registration and the one click payment may be send to the merchant system and the user may subsequently receive the product or service.

Merchant system may be any suitable merchant system such as merchant system of merchant system of or merchant system of . Merchant system may receive the information related to the completed data fields of single page user registration and may create a new user at . For example new user creation may be performed by user account management circuitry of . Merchant system may receive the information related to the completed data fields of one click payment and may associate the payment to the user at . For example associate payment to user may be performed by account management circuitry of and may include associating the payment with the user created at .

An aggregator system such as aggregator system may provide content page to the client device to be displayed based on the user selection of advertisement . Content page may include additional information related to the product or service being promoted by advertisement . Content page need not be a singular content page and may instead be a series of content pages navigable by the user of the client device for example by selecting a content item in one content page to transition to another content page. For example the user may select a dating profile displayed by content page and in response the aggregator system may provide content page to the client device to be displayed.

Content page may include data fields related to user information which must be completed in order to receive the product or service being promoted by advertisement . Data fields may be pre populated by the aggregator system for example based on CRM information received from a carrier system associated with the client device of the user. In some embodiments the client device may be identified for example by identification circuitry of prior to receiving CRM information. After data fields are pre populated by the aggregator system the user may select to create an account and the aggregator system may provide content page to the client device to be displayed.

Content page may include pre populated payment information based on CRM information associated with the user received from the carrier system associated with the client device of the user. The payment information may be pre populated by the aggregator system. The user may confirm the payment information on content page and the aggregator system may process the payment for the user on behalf of the merchant system at .

The aggregator system may display content page based on the payment processed at where content page may include a confirmation that indicates that the user is now a registered user with the merchant system. The aggregator system may subsequently cause the web browser of the client device to be redirected to content page published by the merchant system where content page contains content related to the purchase made by the user.

It will be understood that the steps above are exemplary and that in some implementations steps may be added removed omitted repeated reordered modified in any other suitable way or any combination thereof.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this disclosure and various modifications may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation. The present disclosure also can take many forms other than those explicitly described herein. Accordingly it is emphasized that this disclosure is not limited to the explicitly disclosed methods systems and apparatuses but is intended to include variations to and modifications thereof which are within the spirit of the following claims.

