---

title: Bearing for use in sliding head restraint
abstract: The present disclosure relates to bearings, guide sleeves and head restraint assemblies for automobiles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09649959&OS=09649959&RS=09649959
owner: SAINT-GOBAIN PERFORMANCE PLASTICS CORPORATION
number: 09649959
owner_city: Solon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140626
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 841 315 entitled BEARING FOR USE IN SLIDING HEAD RESTRAINT by Timothy J. Hagan et al. filed Jun. 29 2013 claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 841 316 entitled BEARING FOR USE IN SLIDING HEAD RESTRAINT by Timothy J. Hagan et al. filed Jun. 29 2013 claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 841 317 entitled BEARING FOR USE IN SLIDING HEAD RESTRAINT by Timothy J. Hagan et al. filed Jun. 29 2013 claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 884 767 entitled BEARING FOR USE IN SLIDING HEAD RESTRAINT by Timothy J. Hagan et al. filed Sep. 30 2013 and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 921 806 entitled BEARING FOR USE IN SLIDING HEAD RESTRAINT by Timothy J. Hagan et al. filed Dec. 30 2013 of which all are assigned to the current assignee hereof and incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to bearings guide sleeves and head restraint assemblies for automobiles.

Automotive vehicles include vehicle seat assemblies for supporting vehicle occupants. The seat assemblies typically include a substantially horizontal seat cushion and a generally upright seat back pivotally connected to the seat cushion by a rotatable mechanism. Seat assemblies also typically include a head restraint extending from a top face of the seat back. The head restraint is typically movable between a plurality of head restraint positions relative to the seat back to accommodate a wide range of occupant heights.

It is widely practiced in automotive seat assemblies to support the head restraint at the top of the seat back with a spaced apart pair of posts. Each of the posts can extend outward from the head restraint and can be inserted into a corresponding mounting fixture in the seat back.

Either one or both of the posts typically contain a plurality of external notches arranged longitudinally thereon representing the corresponding plurality of head restraint selectable positions. A plunger or depressor can be engaged with any one of the plurality of notches to maintain the head restraint in the corresponding head support position. The plunger is typically spring biased such that in the biased position the plunger engages with one of the notches thus preventing axial translation of the head restraint relative the seat back.

To adjust the height of the head restraint a vehicle occupant can depress the plunger causing the plunger to disengage from a notch on the post. After the plunger disengages from the notch the occupant can apply a force to the head restraint causing the entire head restraint assembly to translate in the desired vertical direction. For example to lower the height of the head restraint the occupant can urge the assembly towards the seat back. Conversely to increase the height of the head restraint the occupant can urge the assembly away from the seat back.

After the occupant has positioned the head restraint at the desired height the occupant can release the plunger allowing the plunger to once again bias against the post. If at this time the plunger is aligned with one of the notches the plunger can engage therewith causing the head restraint to securely lock in that position. However if the plunger is not aligned with a notch the occupant must then urge the head restraint in either vertical direction until the plunger engages with the nearest notch at which point the head restraint is securely locked.

Previous adjustable head restraint assemblies have relied on intentional misalignment of the posts relative to the engagement fixture in the seat back. This misalignment can allow the posts to form an interference fit with the mounting fixture of the seat back. This misalignment has several undesirable consequences. Particularly the misalignment can cause the assembly to exhibit a high seat assembly to seat assembly variability such as in terms of ease of headrest adjustment and or tolerances. Moreover the misalignment can cause undesirable noise vibration and harshness characteristics.

Skilled artisans appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the invention.

The following description in combination with the figures is provided to assist in understanding the teachings disclosed herein. The following discussion will focus on specific implementations and embodiments of the teachings. This focus is provided to assist in describing the teachings and should not be interpreted as a limitation on the scope or applicability of the teachings. However other embodiments can be used based on the teachings as disclosed in this application.

As used herein to describe range of movement of the posts the term adjustment length describes the maximum distance the posts can translate into and away from a seat back while maintaining lockable engagement therewith. In a particular aspect the adjustment length can be defined as the length of the segment of the head restraint post that is exposed from the seat back when the head restraint assembly is at its maximum height. In this sense the adjustment length of the posts can be less than the entire axial length of the posts. Further as described herein the posts can be locked at any position along their adjustment length.

The terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a method article or apparatus that comprises a list of features is not necessarily limited only to those features but may include other features not expressly listed or inherent to such method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

Also the use of a or an is employed to describe elements and components described herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the scope of the invention. This description should be read to include one at least one or the singular as also including the plural or vice versa unless it is clear that it is meant otherwise. For example when a single item is described herein more than one item may be used in place of a single item. Similarly where more than one item is described herein a single item may be substituted for that more than one item.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. The materials methods and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting. To the extent not described herein many details regarding specific materials and processing acts are conventional and may be found in textbooks and other sources within the head restraint arts.

The present head restraint assembly is adapted to provide consistent sliding resistance and adjustability. The concepts are better understood in view of the embodiments described below that illustrate and do not limit the scope of the present invention

Referring initially to a vehicle seat is partially illustrated. The seat can include a seat bottom not shown that is mounted within a vehicle. The seat can also include a seat back that is mounted to one of the seat bottom or the vehicle. The seat back can further include a head restraint assembly . The head restraint assembly can be engaged with a top surface of the seat back . The head restraint assembly can be adapted to translate relative to the seat back . In this regard the head restraint assembly can be adjusted to accommodate passengers of various heights.

Referring to through the head restraint assembly can generally include a body e.g. a head cushion a first post and a second post extending from the head cushion a first guide sleeve engaged with the first post and a second guide sleeve engaged with the second post . The first guide sleeve can further include a first bearing having a first and second distal end and a locking mechanism . Similarly the second guide sleeve can further include a second bearing having a first and second distal end. The first and second bearings can each have a first end and a second end the second end having substantially the same shape as the first end . The locking mechanism can be engaged to the first end .

In a particular embodiment the head cushion can be made of a foamed polymer material and can have an internal framework. The head cushion can further include an outer material selected to cover the foamed plastic such as for example a vinyl a fabric a leather or a combination thereof. The internal framework can comprise any rigid material sufficient to support the head cushion . The internal framework can be formed from several axial members affixed together or from a single piece. Extending from the internal framework can be the first and second posts and . The posts can be integral with the framework or can be attached to the framework in any manner recognizable to one having ordinary skill in the art. For example the posts can be welded to the framework. Alternatively the posts can be mechanically deformed to engage the framework e.g. the posts being crimped or bent around the framework . Alternatively the posts can be affixed to the framework by a threadable engagement or other similar type fastener.

In a particular embodiment the first and second posts can extend in a substantially parallel orientation from the head cushion . In a further embodiment the first and second posts can extend from the head cushion in a parallel fashion. As used herein substantially parallel refers to a relative angle as formed between two lines or planes of no greater than 10 such as no greater than 5 or even no greater than 1 . As used herein parallel refers to a relative angle as formed between two lines or planes of no greater than 0.1 .

The posts can have a diameter D a circumference C and a length L. In a particular embodiment the posts can be sized such that they are of equal or variable lengths. The posts can be made from a material selected from metal composite polymer ceramic or any other material having sufficient rigidity and strength to withstand both lateral and axial forces exhibited during vehicular operation.

In a particular embodiment at least a portion of the posts can be formed of straight cylindrical rods. In a more particular embodiment the posts can have one or more radial bends therein. The radial bends can offset the head cushion from the seat back . In yet another embodiment the posts can each include an articulated joint to enable rotational adjustment of the head cushion relative to the seat back . In this regard the head cushion can be rotatably articulated around the top of the posts . The articulated joint can be located within the head cushion .

In a particular aspect at least one of the posts can have a stop feature . The stop feature can be adapted to engage with a complementary locking mechanism described below affixed to the seat back . In a particular aspect the stop feature can be a radial groove or channel extending at least partially around the circumference C.

In an embodiment the posts can have a smooth outer surface free of external indentations external notches grooves and or channels. The posts can have an adjustment length L as measured by the length of the segment of the posts that is exposed from the seat back when the head restraint assembly is at its maximum height.

In this regard the adjustment length L can be increased by correspondingly increasing the length of L. In another aspect Lcan be increased by repositioning the stop feature closer to the leading end of the posts .

In a particular embodiment a ratio of L Lcan be no greater than 4.0 such as no greater than 3.5 no greater than 3.0 no greater than 2.5 no greater than 2.0 no greater than 1.5 no greater than 1.25 or even no greater than 1.1. The ratio of L Lcan be greater than 1.0 such as greater than 1.1 greater than 1.2 greater than 1.3 greater than 1.4 greater than 1.5 greater than 1.6 greater than 1.7 greater than 1.8 greater than 1.9 or even greater than 2.0. Additionally the value for the ratio of L Lcan be selected from a value as within the range defined above.

The stop feature can be separated from the leading end of the posts a length L as measured between the leading end and the nearest surface of the stop feature . In a particular aspect a ratio of L Lcan be no greater than 100 such as no greater than 75 no greater than 50 no greater than 25 or even no greater than 10. The ratio of L Lcan be no less than 0.5 such as no less than 1 no less than 5 no less than 10 no less than 20 no less than 30 no less than 40 or even no less than 50. Additionally the value for the ratio of L Lcan be selected from a value as within the range defined above.

In a particular embodiment the guide sleeves can additionally include a stop feature which is adapted to engage with the stop feature of the posts . The stop features can be adapted to prevent the posts from disengaging from the guide sleeve guides . The stop features can comprise any feature as would be recognizable to one having ordinary skill in the art for preventing axial disengagement of two substantially concentric components.

For example as illustrated in one of the stop features can comprise a radial projection adapted to engage with a corresponding recess in the other stop feature . In a particular aspect the radial projection can be spring biased towards the corresponding recess . In this regard the radial projection can engage with the corresponding recess and can prevent the posts from disengaging from the guide sleeves .

Alternatively the stop features can comprise a molly adapted to be engageable onto one of the posts . The molly can be spring biased such that after insertion of the posts through the guide sleeves the molly expands or extends radially outward beyond the guide sleeves . This expansion or extension can anchor the stop features and prevent the posts from disengaging from the guide sleeves .

Referring again to through the first and second bearings can be adapted to engage around each of the first and second posts . In particular embodiments the posts and the bearings can have a poka yoke or other mechanism to assist in aligning the posts within the bearings . As used herein poka yoke refers to a complementary shaping feature located on each of the posts and the bearings to assist in preventing unintended movement between the parts and to facilitate easier assembly. For example the poka yoke may comprise a tongue and groove extending along an axial length of the posts and the bearings . In particular embodiments the poka yoke can include interlocking ribs formed on one of the posts and bearings and channels on the other of the posts and bearings pins and grooves or any other complementary engagement structure allowing for a more precise and defect free assembling of components.

Referring now to and in a particular embodiment the bearings can be formed from a strip of resilient material e.g. spring steel having opposite axial ends and circumferential ends . The strip can include an undeformed portion and at least one row of wave structures . The wave structures can be press formed e.g. stamped into the strip . As used herein undeformed portion can refer to an annular sidewall of the bearing s from which wave structure s protrude. More particularly the undeformed portion can include a portion of the strip that is not deformed other than during forming of an annular or cylindrical shape e.g. the undeformed portion is devoid of wave structure s . As used herein the undeformed portion can include an annular sidewall of the bearing s defining at least one of an inner diameter or an outer diameter of the bearing s .

In a particular embodiment illustrated in each wave structure can be substantially identical in size and shape to permit a more even radial compression around the circumference of the bearings . In a particular embodiment the wave structures can have a length L extending at least partially between the axial ends . In another embodiment the wave structures can extend parallel with the axial ends . In a further embodiment the wave structures can extend in any angular orientation relative the axial ends .

For example as illustrated in the wave structures can be formed parallel to the ends . In a further embodiment each wave structure can have unique or dissimilar characteristics. In a particular aspect the wave structures can be substantially rectangular cuboids. In another aspect as illustrated in the wave structures can be substantially pyramidal. In a further aspect as illustrated in through the wave structures can be hemispherical dimples. In yet another aspect the wave structures can be conical. Additionally the wave structures can be formed to have any other projecting surface capable of engaging an inner post .

In a particular embodiment the wave structures can have a uniform projecting distance D. In an alternative embodiment the wave structures can have varying projecting distances D.

In a particular aspect there can be a number of wave structures N located peripherally around the bearings . Ncan be at least 3 such as Nis at least 4 at least 5 at least 6 at least 7 at least 8 at least 9 at least 10 at least 11 at least 12 at least 13 at least 14 at least 15 or even at least 16. Ncan be no greater than 40 such as no greater than 35 not greater than 30 no greater than 25 no greater than 20 no greater than 15 or even not greater than 10. Ncan also be within a range between and including any of the above described values.

Further each wave structure can include a number of rows extending circumferentially N of smaller wave structures . Ncan be at least 2 such as at least 3 or even at least 4. Ncan be no greater than 6 such as not greater than 5 not greater than 4 or even not greater than 3. Ncan also be within a range between and including any of the above described values.

In this aspect it should be understood that all reference to wave structures herein can include either a single wave structure or any number of wave structures N within the range defined above. It should be further understood that each wave structure can have identical or varying dimensional and physical characteristics. In a particular aspect the wave structures can vary in shape and dimensional size around the circumference of the bearings . In another aspect all of the wave structures can be substantially identical.

Moreover the wave structures can be disposed of along the strip rectilinearly as illustrated in or non rectilinearly as illustrated in . In the latter embodiment the wave structures can be staggered around the strip such that the wave structures do not align axially. In this regard the wave structures can be adapted to provide a substantially even radially inward compressive force against the posts disposed of within the bearings . When viewed along the length of the bearings each bearing can have at least 3 wave structures such as at least 4 wave structures at least 5 wave structures or even at least 6 wave structures circumferentially disposed around the bearing .

As illustrated in through in a particular embodiment the bearings can be adapted to receive an angled post therein. The wave structures can have variable projecting distances D to accommodate for this angular engagement. In a further embodiment illustrated in through the bearings can be adapted to receive off centered posts that are not concentrically aligned with the bearings . In this regard the wave structures can be formed such that the wave structures are substantially identical in the axial direction but increase or decrease circumferentially.

In a particular embodiment to form the bearings the strip can be curved to form an annular ring by bringing circumferential ends towards one another. The resulting bearings can each have a central axis and a functional circumference C as measured circumferentially by a best fit circle tangent to an innermost portion of the wave structures. In a particular embodiment the strip can be curved to form an overlap between ends to increase the dimensional range that the bearings can accommodate.

As illustrated in in a particular aspect the bearings can have a functional inner diameter ID as measured between the inner surface of two opposite wave structures prior to engagement with the posts . The posts can comprise an outer diameter D. In a particular aspect a ratio of D IDcan be no greater than 1.5 such as no greater than 1.45 no greater than 1.4 no greater than 1.35 no greater than 1.3 no greater than 1.25 no greater than 1.2 no greater than 1.15 no greater than 1.1 no greater than 1.05 or even no greater than 1.025. The ratio of D IDcan be no less than 1.005 such as no less than 1.01 no less than 1.02 no less than 1.03 no less than 1.04 no less than 1.05 no less than 1.06 no less than 1.07 no less than 1.08 no less than 1.09 or even no less than 1.1. Additionally the ratio of D IDcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above. In a particular aspect as the ratio of D IDincreases the wave structures can provide a greater radial force against the posts .

The bearings can further comprise a total circumference C which can be measured by a best fit circle along the inner surface of the undeformed portion of the bearings prior to insertion of the posts therein.

In a particular embodiment the bearings can have an initial gap between ends . The initial gap can be defined as the gap between the ends prior to insertion of the posts into the bearings . The initial gap can have an initial width W as measured perpendicular between ends . A ratio of W Ccan be no greater than 0.30 such as no greater than 0.25 no greater than 0.20 no greater than 0.15 no greater than 0.10 less than 0.05 or even less than 0.04. The ratio of W Ccan be no less than 0.01 such as no less than 0.02 no less than 0.03 no less than 0.04 no less than 0.05 no less than 0.06 no less than 0.07 no less than 0.08 no less than 0.09 or even no less than 0.10. The ratio of W Ccan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above. As used herein Ccan be understood to include both the circumferential length of the inner surface of the bearing and the length W of the gap .

Further in a particular embodiment as illustrated in upon insertion of the posts into the bearings the width between the ends can increase to form an operational gap having a width W. A ratio of W Wcan be no less than 0.01 such as no less than 0.02 no less than 0.03 no less than 0.04 no less than 0.05 no less than 0.10 no less than 0.15 no less than 0.20 no less than 0.25 no less than 0.30 no less than 0.35 or even no less than 0.40. The ratio of W Wis no greater than 0.75 such as no greater than 0.70 no greater than 0.65 no greater than 0.60 no greater than 0.55 no greater than 0.50 no greater than 0.45 no greater than 0.40 no greater than 0.35 no greater than 0.30 no greater than 0.25 no greater than 0.20 no greater than 0.15 no greater than 0.10 or even no greater than 0.05. The ratio of W Wcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

In a further embodiment the bearings can have an operational inner diameter ID which can be measured between the inner surface of two opposite wave structures after engagement of the bearings with the posts . In a particular aspect a ratio of ID IDcan be no less than 1.05 such as no less than 1.10 no less than 1.15 no less than 1.20 no less than 1.25 no less than 1.30 no less than 1.35 no less than 1.40 no less than 1.45 no less than 1.50 no less than 1.55 or even no less than 1.60. The ratio of ID IDcan be no greater than 2.00 such as no greater than 1.75 no greater than 1.50 no greater than 1.25 or even no greater than 1.10. The ratio of ID IDcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

In a particular aspect the bearings can have a functional circumference as measured by a best fit circle along the undeformed portion of the bearings after insertion of the posts therein. A ratio of C Ccan be at least 1.025 at least 1.05 at least 1.1 at least 1.2 at least 1.3 at least 1.4 at least 1.5 at least 1.75 or even at least 2.0. The ratio of C Ccan be less than 5 less than 4 less than 3 less than 2 or even less than 1.5. The ratio of C Ccan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

In a particular aspect each wave structure can have an arcuate cross section with a radius of curvature R measured perpendicularly from the undeformed portion of the strip to the inner surface of the wave structure . In cases where the wave structures have varying curvatures e.g. parabolic shaped the Ris measured according to the best fit circle within the wave structure . The bearings can also have a body radius R which can be measured perpendicular from the central axis of the bearings to the undeformed portion .

Further in a particular aspect Rcan be no greater than 0.50 R such as no greater than 0.45 R no greater than 0.40 R no greater than 0.35 R no greater than 0.30 R no greater than 0.25 R no greater than 0.20 R no greater than 0.15 R no greater than 0.10 R or even no greater than 0.05 R. Furthermore Rcan be at least 0.01 R such as at least 0.02 R at least 0.03 R at least 0.04 R at least 0.05 R at least 0.10 R at least 0.15 R or even at least 0.20 R. The relationship of Rand Rcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

In a particular embodiment illustrated in the bearings can include only the strip of material . In another embodiment as illustrated in the bearings can further include a low friction layer which can provide enhanced sliding characteristics with the posts . The low friction layer can comprise materials including for example a polymer such as a plyketone polyaramid a polyimide a polytherimide a polyphenylene sulfide a polyetherslfone a polysulfone a polypheylene sulfone a polyamideimide ultra high molecular weight polyethylene a fluoropolymer a polyamide a polybenzimidazole or any combination thereof.

In an example the polymer material includes a polyketone a polyaramid a polyimide a polyetherimide a polyamideimide a polyphenylene sulfide a polyphenylene sulfone a fluoropolymer a polybenzimidazole a derivation thereof or a combination thereof. In a particular example the thermoplastic material includes a polymer such as a polyketone a thermoplastic polyimide a polyetherimide a polyphenylene sulfide a polyether sulfone a polysulfone a polyamideimide a derivative thereof or a combination thereof. In a further example the material includes polyketone such as polyether ether ketone PEEK polyether ketone polyether ketone ketone polyether ketone ether ketone a derivative thereof or a combination thereof. In an additional example the thermoplastic polymer may be ultra high molecular weight polyethylene.

An example fluoropolymer includes fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP PTFE polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF perfluoroalkoxy PFA a terpolymer of tetrafluoroethylene hexafluoropropylene and vinylidene fluoride THV polychlorotrifluoroethylene PCTFE ethylene tetrafluoroethylene copolymer ETFE ethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene copolymer ECTFE or any combination thereof. Fluoropolymers are used according to particular embodiments.

Additionally the bearings can include lubrication to further enhance sliding characteristics between the bearing and the posts . Exemplary lubricants can include molybdenum disulfide tungsten disulfide graphite grapheme expanded graphite boron nitrade talc calcium fluoride or any combination thereof. Additionally the lubricant can comprise alumina silica titanium dioxide calcium fluoride boron nitride mica Wollastonite silicon carbide silicon nitride zirconia carbon black pigments or any combination thereof.

A combination of the spring characteristics of the bearing with the low friction lubrication characteristics of the low friction layer can provide a low friction sliding surface.

In a particular embodiment the strip can have a thickness T and the low friction layer can have a thickness T. A ratio of T Tcan be at least 1 such as at least 1.5 at least 2 at least 2.5 at least 3 at least 3.5 at least 4 at least 4.5 or even at least 5. The ratio of T Tcan be no greater than 50 such as no greater than 40 no greater than 30 no greater than 20 or even no greater than 10. Additionally the ratio of T Tcan be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

In a particular embodiment the low friction layer can have a thickness of no less than 0.01 mm such as no less than 0.05 mm no less than 0.1 mm no less than 0.2 mm no less than 0.3 mm no less than 0.4 mm no less than 0.5 mm no less than 0.6 mm no less than 0.7 mm no less than 0.8 mm no less than 0.9 mm or even no less than 1 mm. The thickness of the low friction layer can be no greater than 10 mm such as no greater than 9 mm no greater than 8 mm no greater than 7 mm no greater than 6 mm no greater than 5 mm no greater than 4 mm no greater than 3 mm no greater than 2 mm or even no greater than 1 mm. Additionally the thickness of the low friction layer can also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

In some embodiments the low friction layer can be laminated onto an inner surface of the bearings . In other embodiments the low friction layer can be affixed to the inner surface of the bearings by chemical process. In yet another embodiment the low friction layer can be affixed to the inner surface of the bearings by mechanical deformation. In still other embodiments the low friction layer can be attached to the bearing by any method known in the art. After the low friction layer is attached to the strip of the bearing the resulting structure can be stamped e.g. pressed using a suitably shaped mold rotary wave forming etc. to form the wave structures . Thus the wave structures can be formed from both the strip of resilient material and from the low friction layer .

In a particular embodiment the bearings can reduce frictional resistance of the posts within the guide sleeves allowing for easier translation of the head restraint assembly relative the seat back . In another embodiment the bearings can provide a zero clearance fit between the guide sleeves and the posts . In yet a further embodiment the bearings can eliminate or substantially reduce squeaking of the assembly when the posts are translated relative the guide sleeves .

In a particular embodiment the bearings can be adapted to apply a radially inward force against the posts so as to form a zero clearance fit therebetween. In this regard a zero clearance fit can be formed between the bearings and the posts . As used herein the term zero clearance is defined by an engagement between a bearing and a post substantially devoid of perceptible radial play or movement upon application of a force against the bearing perpendicular to the central axis of the bearing while holding the post installed therein stationary at 0 degrees 45 degrees 90 degrees 135 degrees 180 degrees 225 degrees and 270 degrees positions.

In a particular aspect it is desirable for the bearings to provide a high degree of radial stiffness to the posts while simultaneously permitting low axial sliding forces of the posts within the bearings . In this regard the head restraint assembly can support high normal loads while simultaneously permitting translation of the posts within the bearings upon application of a minimal axial load.

In a particular embodiment the bearings can form an interference fit with the posts such that the bearings can provide the posts with a radial stiffness of no less than about 2 000 N mm while simultaneously allowing the posts to translate upon an axial sliding force of no greater than about 30 N. In further embodiments the bearings can provide the posts with a radial stiffness of no less than about 2 250 N mm no less than about 2 500 N mm no less than about 2 750 N mm no less than about 3 000 N mm no less than about 3 500 N mm or no less than about 4 000 N mm. Radial stiffness of the bearings can be determined at anytime after insertion of the posts in the bearings . For example after one of the posts has been inserted into one of the bearings as previously described the radial stiffness of the post and bearing preassembly can be determined by fixing one of the post or bearings and applying a perpendicular normal force to the other one of the post or bearings . The force necessary to affect radial movement of one of the posts or bearings can be determinative of the radial stiffness of the bearings .

In particular embodiments the bearings can provide a desired radial stiffness while simultaneously permitting axial translation of the posts therein upon application of an axial sliding force of no greater than about 29 N no greater than about 28 N no greater than about 27 N no greater than about 26 N no greater than about 25 N no greater than about 24 N no greater than about 23 N no greater than about 22 N no greater than about 21 N no greater than about 20 N no greater than about 19 N no greater than about 18 N no greater than about 17 N no greater than about 16 N no greater than about 15 N no greater than about 14 N no greater than about 13 N. In this regard the bearings can provide an affective resistance to radial movement while permitting axial translation of the posts upon application of a minimal longitudinal force.

In a particular aspect the zero clearance between the bearings and the posts can be generated by the wave structures of the bearings extending radially inward from the bearing walls and compressing against the posts along a best fit circle tangent to the inner wave surface . In a particular embodiment each of the wave surfaces can define a point contact location adapted to contact with the posts along the best fit circle. In another embodiment the wave surfaces can define a planar portion adapted to provide an area contact location between the posts and the bearings . In this regard the contact between the posts and the bearings can be either point contact or area contact.

In particular embodiments each of the wave structures can have a best fit circle having an initial diameter D as measured by the diameter of the best fit circle prior to installation of the posts and an operational diameter D as measured by the diameter of the best fit circle after installation of the posts therein. As contemplated herein a zero clearance fit between the bearings and the posts can require that Dbe greater than D. In this regard a ratio of D Dcan be no greater than 0.999 no greater than 0.995 no greater than 0.990 no greater than 0.985 no greater than 0.980 no greater than 0.975 no greater than 0.970 no greater than 0.950 no greater than 0.925 no greater than 0.900. The ratio of D Dcan be no less than 0.4 no less than 0.5 no less than 0.6 no less than 0.7 no less than 0.8 no less than 0.9 no less than 0.95 no less than 0.96 no less than 0.97 no less than 0.98 no less than 0.99. Moreover the ratio of D Dcan be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above such as for example between 0.95 and 0.99.

In a particular aspect the ratio between D Dcan be adjusted by selection of posts having a desirable outer diameter D. As Dis increased relative to D the resulting Dcan increase to affect the relative zero clearance fit between the posts and the bearings .

In further embodiments at least one of the bearings of the guide sleeves can have a bi modal radial stiffness profile as will be described in greater detail below. In yet other embodiments both of the bearings can have a bi modal radial stiffness profile.

In such a manner the bearings can have an initial unassembled radial stiffness as measured prior to insertion of the posts therein and an assembled radial stiffness as measured after insertion of the posts therein. In particular embodiments the bearings can be formed such that the assembled radial stiffness is different than the initial unassembled radial stiffness.

For example as shown in the bearing s can have an initial unassembled radial stiffness shown at line section prior to the post s being inserted into the bearing s . The bearing s can have an assembled radial stiffness shown at line section as measured after insertion of the post s into the bearing s . During insertion of the post s the radial stiffness profile of the bearing s can increase as seen at transition phase . It should be understood that the radial stiffness profile of the bearing s as seen at transition phase is merely illustrative and can have any contour e.g. arcuate linear etc. duration and or slope. Accordingly the transition phase can be affected by any number of parameters such as for example the material selection of the bearing s the geometric shape and orientation of the features herein described and the forces used during assembly.

The bi modal radial stiffness profile shown in can permit insertion of the post s into the bearing s upon application of a low axial force e.g. less than about 100 N such as less than about 90 N less than about 80 N or even less than about 75 N while simultaneously permitting the bearing s to exhibit a relatively high assembled radial stiffness e.g. no less than about 1000 N mm such as no less than about 1500 N mm or even no less than about 2000 N mm .

In this regard in particular embodiments the bearing s can have an assembled radial stiffness of no less than about 1 000 N mm while requiring an initial assembly force of no greater than about 100 N. In further embodiments the bearing s can have an assembled radial stiffness of no less than about 1100 N mm such as no less than about 1200 N mm no less than about 1300 N mm no less than about 1500 N mm no less than about 1700 N mm no less than about 2000 N mm no less than about 2100 N mm no less than about 2200 N mm no less than about 2300 N mm no less than about 2400 N mm no less than about 2500 N mm no less than about 3000 N mm no less than about 3500 N mm or even no less than about 4000 N mm. In yet other embodiments the bearing s can have an assembled radial stiffness of no greater than about 7500 N mm such as no greater than about 7000 N mm no greater than about 6500 N mm no greater than about 6000 N mm no greater than about 5500 N mm or even no greater than about 5000 N mm. Moreover the assembled radial stiffness of the bearing s can also be within a range between and including any of the values described above such as for example between about 4500 N mm and about 4800 N mm.

In particular embodiments the bearing s can be adapted to have an assembled radial stiffness within the range described above while simultaneously having an assembly force of no greater than about 100 N such as no greater than about 95 N no greater than about 90 N no greater than about 85 N no greater than about 80 N or even no greater than about 75 N.

In certain embodiments the bearing s can have a bi modal stiffness profile as a result of a bi modal wave structure. In this regard at least one of the wave structures of at least one of the bearings can have a bi modal radial stiffness profile with an initial unassembled radial stiffness and an assembled radial stiffness.

In further embodiments at least two of the wave structures can have a bi modal radial stiffness profile such as at least three wave structures at least four wave structures or even at least five wave structures. In another embodiment every wave structure on the at least one bearing can have a bi modal radial stiffness configuration. In yet further embodiments the wave structures can have different bi modal radial stiffness configurations such as for example a unique bi modal radial stiffness configuration for each wave structure such that no two wave structures have the same bi modal radial stiffness profile.

Bi modal radial stiffness of at least one of the bearings or wave structures can provide at least three advantages. First a tighter radial fit can be achieved between the bearings and the posts without damaging the bearings or posts. Second the assembly forces can be reduced permitting faster and easier assembly of the posts into the bearings. Third particle generation caused by frictional sliding during insertion of the posts into the bearing can be minimized by reducing the necessary axial forces as compared to an assembly without a bi modal radial stiffness configuration.

In particular embodiments e.g. those seen in at least one of the wave structures of at least one of the bearings can comprise a sizing feature . The sizing feature can comprise for example an aperture extending through at least a portion of the at least one wave structure shown in a portion of the wave structure having a reduced thickness shown in a dimpled section shown in or any combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the sizing feature of the at least one wave structure can cause the at least one bearing to have an initial inner diameter D as measured along a best fit circle tangent to the innermost portions of the wave structures before the posts are inserted therein. The sizing feature can further permit the bearing to have an operational diameter D as measured along a best fit circle tangent to the innermost portion of the wave structures after the post are inserted therein. A ratio of D Dcan be no less than 1.0 such as no less than about 1.01 no less than about 1.02 no less than about 1.03 no less than about 1.04 no less than about 1.05 or even no less than about 1.10. Moreover in particular embodiments the ratio of D Dcan be no greater than about 2.0 such as no greater than about 1.9 no greater than about 1.8 no greater than about 1.7 or even no greater than about 1.6. The ratio of D Dcan also be within a range of between and including any of the above described values such as for example between about 1.05 and about 1.10.

Referring now to in a particular embodiment at least one of the wave structure can include an aperture . In more particular embodiments the aperture can be positioned at least partially on an inner surface of the at least one wave structure .

The aperture can define any shape when viewed from the inner surface of the wave structure such as for example a generally polygonal opening a generally ellipsoidal opening or a combination thereof. In particular embodiments the aperture can be ovular e.g. . In other embodiments the aperture can be pinched e.g. in that the ends are tapered.

During insertion of the post into the bearing the aperture can at least partially close thereby enhancing the radial stiffness of the wave structure .

In other embodiments the apertures may substantially close in the assembled state such that a small opening remains along the inner surface of the wave structure .

In the assembled state e.g. a radially innermost surface of the wave structure can act as a parabolic arch transferring the radial force provided by the posts along a side surface of the wave structure to the undeformed section of the bearing. Conversely in the preassembled state the wave structure is devoid of a continuous parabolic arch subjecting the wave structure to deflect to the closed or partially closed assembled state without transferring significant forces to the undeformed section . In such a manner minimal forces can be transferred to the undeformed section of the wave structure during insertion of the posts into the bearings.

In other embodiments the aperture may substantially close in the assembled state such that a small opening remains along the inner surface of the wave structure .

In the assembled state e.g. a radially innermost surface of the wave structure can act as a parabolic arch transferring the radial force provided by the posts along a side surface of the wave structure to the undeformed section of the bearing. Conversely in the preassembled state the wave structure is devoid of a continuous parabolic arch subjecting the wave structure to deflect to the closed or partially closed assembled state without transferring significant forces to the undeformed section . In such a manner minimal forces can be transferred to the undeformed section of the wave structure during insertion of the posts into the bearings.

In other embodiments the apertures may substantially close in the assembled state such that small opening remain along the inner surface of the wave structure .

In the assembled state e.g. a radially innermost surface of the wave structure can act as an arch transferring the radial force provided by the posts along a side surface of the wave structure to the undeformed section of the bearing. Conversely in the preassembled state the wave structure is devoid of a continuous parabolic arch subjecting the wave structure to deflect to the closed or partially closed assembled state without transferring significant forces to the undeformed section . In such a manner minimal forces can be transferred to the undeformed section of the wave structure during insertion of the posts into the bearings.

As illustrated in in certain embodiments at least one wave structure can include an aperture positioned along at least one of the side surfaces . In such a manner the wave structure can be at least partially disconnected from the undeformed portion of the sidewall of the bearing. In a non illustrated embodiment the wave structures can include an aperture along at least three sides. In such a manner the wave structure can be disconnected from the sidewall along at least a portion of three sides thereof e.g. a tine. In an embodiment the tine can be bent or otherwise deflected in a radial direction. This may increase or decrease radial loading of the wave structure as measured on the post.

The aperture can define any shape when viewed from the side surface of the wave structure such as for example a generally polygonal opening a generally ellipsoidal opening or a combination thereof. In particular embodiments the aperture can be ovular. In other embodiments the aperture can be pinched.

In other embodiments the apertures may substantially close in the assembled state such that small gaps remain along the side surface of the wave structure .

In the assembled state e.g. a radially innermost surface of the wave structure can act as an arch transferring the radial force provided by the posts along a side surface of the wave structure to the undeformed section. Conversely in the preassembled state the wave structure is devoid of a continuous side wall subjecting the wave structure to deflect to the closed or partially closed assembled state without transferring significant forces to the undeformed section . In such a manner minimal forces can be transferred to the undeformed section of the wave structure during insertion of the posts into the bearings.

In particular embodiments e.g. the aperture can have at least one tapered end when viewed in a direction perpendicular to the aperture . The tapered end can define an acute angle A which can be less than about 45 degrees such as less than about 40 degrees less than about 35 degrees less than about 30 degrees less than about 25 degrees less than about 20 degrees less than about 15 degrees or even less than about 10 degrees.

In further embodiments the aperture can have a maximum length L and a maximum width W as measured perpendicular to L. In particular embodiments a ratio of L Wcan be no less than about 1.0 such as no less than about 1.5 no less than about 2.0 no less than about 2.5 no less than about 3.0 no less than about 4.0 no less than about 5.0 no less than about 6.0 no less than about 7.0 no less than about 8.0 no less than about 9.0 no less than about 10.0 no less than about 15.0 no less than about 20.0 no less than about 25.0 or even no less than about 30.0. In further embodiments the ratio of L Wcan be no greater than about 500 such as no greater than about 400 no greater than about 300 no greater than about 200 no greater than about 100 no greater than about 75 no greater than about 50 or even no greater than about 40. Moreover the ratio of L Wcan be within a range of between and including any of the values described above such as for example about 12.0.

In specific embodiments a ratio of L Lcan be no greater than about 1.25 such as no greater than about 1.0 no greater than about 0.95 no greater than about 0.90 no greater than about 0.85 no greater than about 0.80 no greater than about 0.75 no greater than about 0.70 no greater than about 0.65 or even no greater than about 0.60. The ratio of L Lcan be no less than about 0.01 such as no less than about 0.10 no less than about 0.20 no less than about 0.30 or even no less than about 0.40. Moreover the ratio of L Lcan be within a range of between and including any of the values described above such as for example about 0.90.

In further embodiments a ratio of W Wcan be no greater than about 1.25 such as no greater than about 1.0 no greater than about 0.95 no greater than about 0.90 no greater than about 0.85 no greater than about 0.80 no greater than about 0.75 no greater than about 0.70 no greater than about 0.65 or even no greater than about 0.60. In yet further embodiments the ratio of W Wcan be no less than about 0.01 such as no less than about 0.10 no less than about 0.20 no less than about 0.30 or even no less than about 0.40. Moreover the ratio of W Wcan be within a range of between and including any of the values described above such as for example about 0.4.

Referring now to in particular embodiments the sizing feature of the at least one wave structure may additionally alternatively comprise a portion of the wave structure having a reduced thickness. In this regard the undeformed portion can have an average thickness T and the wave structure can have a portion with a reduced radial thickness T. A ratio of T Tcan be no greater than about 0.99 such as no greater than about 0.95 no greater than about 0.90 no greater than about 0.85 no greater than about 0.80 no greater than about 0.75 no greater than about 0.70 no greater than about 0.65 no greater than about 0.60 no greater than about 0.55 no greater than about 0.50 no greater than about 0.40 no greater than about 0.30 or even no greater than about 0.20. In further embodiments the ratio of T Tcan be no less than about 0.05 such as no less than about 0.10 no less than about 0.15 or even no less than about 0.20. Moreover the ratio of T Tcan be within a range of between and including any of the values described above such as for example about 0.85.

As the ratio of T Tdecreases the magnitude of difference between the initial unassembled radial stiffness and the assembled radial stiffness can increase while the required assembly force can decrease. As the posts are inserted into the bearings the wave structure of can collapse and the portion of the wave structure having a reduced thickness can become thicker.

In this regard the portion of the wave structure having a reduced thickness can have an initial unassembled radial stiffness S as shown in and an assembled radial stiffness S as shown in wherein Sis greater than S. In particular embodiments a ratio of S Scan be no less than about 1.01 such as no less than about 1.05 no less than about 1.10 no less than about 1.20 no less than about 1.30 no less than about 1.40 no less than about 1.50 no less than about 1.75 or even no less than about 2.00. In further embodiments the ratio of S Scan be no greater than about 20 such as no greater than about 15 no greater than about 10 no greater than about 5 or even no greater than about 3. Moreover the ratio of S Scan be within a range of between and including any of the above described values such as for example between about 2.1 and about 2.5.

In particular embodiments the portion having the reduced thickness can have a surface area A as measured along an outer surface of the wave structure and the wave structure can have a total surface area A. In particular embodiments a ratio of A Acan be no less than about 0.05 such as no less than about 0.10 no less than about 0.15 no less than about 0.20 no less than about 0.25 no less than about 0.30 no less than about 0.35 no less than about 0.40 no less than about 0.45 no less than about 0.50 no less than about 0.60 no less than about 0.70 no less than about 0.80 or even no less than about 0.90. In further embodiments the ratio of A Acan be no greater than about 0.99 such as no greater than about 0.98 no greater than about 0.97 no greater than about 0.96 no greater than about 0.95 no greater than about 0.94 no greater than about 0.93 no greater than about 0.92 no greater than about 0.91 or even no greater than about 0.90. Moreover the ratio of A Acan be within a range of between and including any of the values described above such as for example about 0.45.

Referring to in yet other embodiments the sizing feature of the at least one wave structure may additionally alternatively comprise a dimpled section . The dimpled section can include corrugations bumps indents or any similar structure which is adapted to deform collapse during insertion of the posts into the bearings. In a particular aspect the dimpled section can be adapted to have a greater radial stiffness after the post is inserted into the bearing as compared to the radial stiffness prior to insertion.

In particular embodiments the dimpled section can comprise a corrugation . Moreover in more particular embodiments the corrugation can further comprise a plurality of corrugations. In certain embodiments the corrugation s can be positioned along the inner surface of the wave structure or partially there along.

In further embodiments the dimpled section can comprise a perforation . In more particular embodiments the perforation can further comprise a plurality of perforations. The perforation s can cause the wave structure to have an overall initial unassembled radial stiffness S and an assembled radial stiffness S. In particular embodiments a ratio of S Scan be no less than about 1.01 such as no less than about 1.05 no less than about 1.10 no less than about 1.20 no less than about 1.30 no less than about 1.40 no less than about 1.50 no less than about 1.75 or even no less than about 2.00. In further embodiments the ratio of S Scan be no greater than about 20 such as no greater than about 15 no greater than about 10 no greater than about 5 or even no greater than about 3. Moreover the ratio of S Scan be within a range of between and including any of the above described values such as for example between about 2.1 and about 2.5.

Referring again to through the guide sleeves can include a locking mechanism . The locking mechanism can be engaged with the seat back so as to prevent the posts from translating undesirably relative thereto. The locking mechanism can be formed with an internal bore adapted to receive one of the posts . In a particular embodiment the assembly can additionally comprise a component having substantially the same shape and features as the locking mechanism including an internal bore adapted to receive the second post .

In a particular embodiment the assembly can include guide sleeves adapted to be engaged with one of the first and second posts . As illustrated in the first guide sleeve can include a locking mechanism and bearing . The other of the guide sleeves can include the bearing and the component .

In another embodiment each guide sleeve can include two substantially identical locking mechanisms the first locking mechanism engaged with the first bearing and a second locking mechanism engaged with the second bearing .

Referring to through the locking mechanism includes a housing having a bore defining an axial cavity there through. The axial cavity can have a central axis extending from a bottom end of the locking mechanism to a top end of the locking mechanism .

In a particular embodiment the housing can be cylindrical having a height H and a main diameter D. The central axis can extend parallel with an outer surface of the housing . The axial cavity can have a diameter D wherein a ratio of D Dcan be at least 1.1 such as at least 1.2 at least 1.3 at least 1.4 at least 1.5 at least 1.6 at least 1.7 at least 1.8 at least 1.9 at least 2.0 at least 2.5 or even at least 3. The ratio of D Dcan be no greater than 5.0 such as no greater than 4.5 no greater than 4.0 no greater than 3.5 no greater than 3.0 no greater than 2.5 or even no greater than 2.0. The ratio of D Dcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above such as between 1.1 and 5.0.

A ratio of D Dcan be no greater than 2.0 such as no greater than 1.5 no greater than 1.25 no greater than 1.2 no greater than 1.1 no greater than 1.05 or even no greater than 1.025. The ratio of D Dcan be no less than 1.001 such as no less than 1.005 no less than 1.01 no less than 1.025 no less than 1.05 or even no less than 1.75. Additionally the ratio of D Dcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above. As the ratio of D Ddecreases beyond a particular point the frictional resistance between the posts and the housing of the locking mechanism can increase. The increasing frictional resistance can impact the ease by which an occupant of the vehicle can adjust the head restraint assembly .

In a further embodiment the housing can be formed with a first cylindrical section and a second cylindrical section engaged there below. The first cylindrical section can have an outer diameter OD and the second cylindrical section can have an outer diameter OD. A ratio of OD ODcan be no less than 0.5 such as no less than 0.75 no less than 1.0 no less than 1.25 no less than 1.5 or even no less than 2.0. The ratio of OD ODcan be no greater than 5.0 such as no greater than 4.5 no greater than 4.0 no greater than 3.5 no greater than 3.0 no greater than 2.5 no greater than 2.0 or even no greater than 1.5. Additionally the ratio of OD ODcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above. In a further embodiment OD ODcan be approximately 2. In this regard the second cylindrical section can have an outer diameter that is approximately one half the outer diameter of the first cylindrical section .

The first cylindrical section can have a height H and the second cylindrical section can have a height H wherein a ratio of H Hcan be no less than 0.25 such as no less than 0.5 no less than 0.75 no less than 1.0 no less than 1.5 or even no less than 2.0. The ratio of H Hcan be no greater than 5.0 such as no greater than 4.5 no greater than 4.0 no greater than 3.5 no greater than 3.0 no greater than 2.5 no greater than 2.0 or even no greater than 1.5. Additionally the ratio of H Hcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

The housing can comprise any suitable material with sufficient rigidity to withstand axial and longitudinal forces. In a particular embodiment the housing can comprise an injection molded polymer. In another embodiment the housing can comprise a metal or alloy formed through a machining process. In yet another embodiment the housing can comprise a ceramic or any other suitable material. The housing can be formed from a single piece two pieces or several pieces joined together by welding adhesive fasteners threading or any other suitable fastening means.

In a particular aspect the housing can be mated such that the bottom of the first cylindrical section is flush with the top surface of the seat back . In this regard the housing can be partially visible to occupants within the vehicle. In a further aspect the housing can be mounted above the top surface of the seat back .

In a particular aspect as illustrated in the bearings can be adapted to fit within the axial cavity of the housing . In this regard the axial cavity can have an inner diameter ID and the bearings can have an outer diameter OD. A ratio of ID ODcan be no greater than 1.20 such as no greater than 1.15 no greater than 1.10 no greater than 1.09 no greater than 1.08 no greater than 1.07 no greater than 1.06 no greater than 1.05 no greater than 1.04 no greater than 1.03 no greater than 1.02 or even no greater than 1.01. The ratio of ID ODcan be greater than 1 such as greater than 1.01 greater than 1.02 greater than 1.03 greater than 1.04 greater than 1.05 or even greater than 1.10. Additionally the ratio of ID ODcan also be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

To engage one of the bearings with the locking mechanism and the other bearing with the component the first ends of the bearings can be inserted into the cavity of the housing . The bearings can be aligned with the locking mechanism and component such that the central axis of the cavity aligns with the central axis of the bearings . In a particular aspect the bearings can further include an engagement structure to secure with the housing . The guide center axis can be parallel and concomitant with the first center axis of the cavity .

In a particular embodiment illustrated in the engagement structure can comprise at least one L shaped cutout in each of the bearings . Each of the L shaped cutouts can have an opening extending axially inward from the first end of the bearing a heel at the base of the opening a sliding lock surface extending from the heel and an end at a terminal side of the sliding lock surface . An inner surface of the housing can further include at least one tab extending radially inward into the cavity substantially perpendicular to the center axis . To install the bearings into the housings each of the bearings can be aligned such that the tab fits within the opening of the bearings . The bearings can be urged into the cavity until the heel of each L shaped cutout makes contact with each tab . After the tabs come into contact with the heel the bearings can be rotated such that the tabs translates on the sliding lock surface until the tabs contact the end of the L shaped cutout .

The bearings can be secured to the housing in any method recognizable to one having ordinary skill in the art. For example in an alternative embodiment the bearings can threadably engage to the housing . Each of the bearings can include a first thread and the housing can include a complementary second thread. In another embodiment the bearings can be secured to the housing by an adhesive. In yet a further embodiment the bearings can be secured to the housing by an interference fit. In a further embodiment the bearings can be secured to the housing by a pin or a fastener. In yet a further embodiment the bearings can be secured to the housing by a bayonet connection.

Referring again to to the locking mechanism can further include a locking member positioned within the housing .

As illustrated in through the locking member can comprise an opening having a central axis and a first and second surface and . Moreover the locking member can additionally include at least one biasing element extending from the second surface of the locking member . The biasing element can be adapted to provide a biasing force relatively parallel with the central axis . The biasing element can be a spring. In a particular embodiment the biasing element can be a leaf spring extending from the second surface of the locking member . In a particular aspect the leaf spring can be formed integrally from the locking member . The leaf spring can be formed from a cutout from the locking member . The surface can be rotated away from the second surface of the locking member . The surface can comprise at least one bend therein to facilitate enhanced engagement between the leaf spring and the housing .

Moreover the locking member can further include a distal flange projecting from the locking member at an angle A. In a particular aspect Acan be no less than 45 degrees such as no less than 50 degrees no less than 55 degrees no less than 60 degrees no less than 65 degrees no less than 70 degrees no less than 75 degrees no less than 80 degrees no less than 85 degrees no less than 90 degrees no less than 95 degrees no less than 100 degrees no less than 105 degrees or even no less than 110 degrees. Acan be no greater than 170 degrees such as no greater than 165 degrees no greater than 160 degrees no greater than 155 degrees no greater than 150 degrees no greater than 145 degrees no greater than 140 degrees no greater than 135 degrees no greater than 130 degrees no greater than 125 degrees no greater than 120 degrees no greater than 115 degrees no greater than 110 degrees no greater than 105 degrees no greater than 100 degrees no greater than 95 degrees or even no greater than 90 degrees. Additionally Acan also be within a range between and including any of the values described above.

In a further embodiment the locking member can also include a lever extending from the first surface of the locking member opposite the flange . In a particular aspect the lever can be formed by rolling an edge of the locking member over on itself. In this regard the lever can be integrally formed from the locking member increasing strength of the lever while simultaneously reducing the need for a weld or joint. In an alternate embodiment the lever can be formed from a material that is attached to the locking member by welding or adhesive. In yet another embodiment the lever can be formed similar to the flange . The lever can be formed from the surface of the locking member that is bent at a substantially right angle. In operation the lever is adapted to cant the locking member at an angle A when positioned there below. As will become apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art the locking member having the relative canting angle A can be adapted to facilitate an interference fit with at least one of the posts . As the locking member is canted relative to the post being engaged the locking member can prevent axial translation of the post or within the opening .

In a particular embodiment Acan be no less than 1 degree such as no less than 2 degrees no less than 3 degrees no less than 4 degrees no less than 5 degrees no less than 10 degrees no less than 15 degrees no less than 20 degrees no less than 25 degrees no less than 30 degrees no less than 35 degrees or even no less than 40 degrees. Acan be no greater than 60 degrees no greater than 55 degrees no greater than 50 degrees no greater than 45 degrees no greater than 40 degrees no greater than 35 degrees no greater than 30 degrees no greater than 25 degrees no greater than 20 degrees no greater than 15 degrees or even no greater than 10 degrees. Acan also be within a range between and including any of the values described above. While Acan be selected to be within the above described range the value selected is directly dependent on the diameter of the opening and the diameter of the posts .

When the locking member is seated on a level surface such that the lever forms a point of contact between the locking member and the surface there below the locking member can have a maximum height H as defined by the distance between the surface and the top point furthest therefrom.

The opening of the locking member can have a diameter D wherein Dis greater than D. In a particular aspect a ratio of D Dis at least 1.05 such as at least 1.1 at least 1.15 at least 1.2 at least 1.25 at least 1.3 at least 1.35 at least 1.4 at least 1.45 or even at least 1.5. The ratio of D Dis no greater than 2.0 such as no greater than 1.9 no greater than 1.8 no greater than 1.7 no greater than 1.6 no greater than 1.5 no greater than 1.4 no greater than 1.3 no greater than 1.2 or even no greater than 1.1. Additionally the ratio of D Dcan also be within a range between and including any of the values described above. The ratio of D Dwill be obvious to one having ordinary skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

As illustrated in and the locking member can be positioned within a slot in the housing . In a particular embodiment the slot can be oriented substantially perpendicular to the central axis of the cavity . The slot can have a top wall and a bottom wall and can include three side walls . The slot can form a substantially rectangular cuboid having a height H a length L and a width W.

In a particular embodiment the slot can include a top wall a bottom wall and can include at least two side walls . In this embodiment the locking member is visible through the housing from the two sides of the cuboidal slot not including side walls .

In a particular aspect a ratio of H Hcan be at least 0.9 such as at least 0.95 at least 1.0 at least 1.01 at least 1.02 at least 1.03 at least 1.04 at least 1.05 at least 1.06 at least 1.07 at least 1.08 at least 1.09 at least 1.10 at least 1.15 or even at least 1.2. The ratio of H Hcan be no greater than 1.4 such as no greater than 1.35 no greater than 1.3 no greater than 1.25 no greater than 1.2 no greater than 1.15 no greater than 1.1 no greater than 1.05 no greater than 1.04 no greater than 1.03 no greater than 1.02 no greater than 1.01 or even no greater than 1.0. The ratio of H Hcan also be within a range between and including any of the values described above. In the event the ratio of H Hhas a value of less than 1.0 the locking member can be compressed within the slot by the top wall of the slot such that the top point is urged towards the lever . The application of force on the top point towards the lever may enhance the gripping properties of the locking member with the posts . In particular as the force applied against the top point increases the relative gripping power exhibited by the locking member against the post or disposed of therein can increase.

As illustrated in the locking member can be angularly positioned relative to the central axis resulting in a relative acute angle formed between the central axis and the central axis . This acute angle as illustrated in can be equal to the canting angle A of the locking member . In a particular embodiment as the locking member is canted at a higher angle A the angle between the central axes and increases an equal value. As the angle A increases the locking member can be adapted to form an interference fit with the posts . This interference fit can prevent the posts from translating along the central axis of the cavity in either vertical direction i.e. upward or downward .

As illustrated in the locking member can be adapted such that the central axis of the cavity substantially aligns with the central axis of the opening . At this position the locking member is canted at a lesser angle A. In this position the locking member can be adapted to permit the posts to translate within the cavity in either vertical direction i.e. upward or downward . Angle Ais shown in .

As shown in and the locking mechanism can further comprise an actuating member engaged at least partially in the slot between the housing and the flange of the locking member .

In a particular embodiment the actuating member can be adapted to translate in a direction substantially perpendicular to the central axis . As the actuating member translates radially inward towards the central axis the actuating member can engage the flange of the locking mechanism angularly rotating the locking member around the lever and displacing the flange in a direction parallel with the central axis . As the locking member rotates around the lever the angle A decreases causing the first and second axes and to become more closely aligned.

In a particular aspect the actuating member can comprise a plunger having an angled plunger face adapted to engage with the flange of the locking member . The plunger face can have a plunger angle A. In a particular aspect Acan be greater than 30 degrees such as greater than 35 degrees greater than 40 degrees greater than 45 degrees greater than 50 degrees greater than 55 degrees greater than 60 degrees greater than 65 degrees greater than 70 degrees greater than 75 degrees greater than 80 degrees greater than 85 degrees greater than 90 degrees greater than 95 degrees or even greater than 100 degrees. Acan be less than 150 degrees such as less than 145 degrees less than 140 degrees less than 135 degrees less than 130 degrees less than 125 degrees less than 120 degrees less than 115 degrees less than 110 degrees less than 105 degrees less than 100 degrees less than 95 degrees or even less than 90 degrees. Furthermore the Acan be in a range between and including any of the values described above.

In a particular embodiment the plunger face can mate with the flange such that upon translating towards the central axis the plunger face displaces the flange upward. This in turn can be understood to decrease Aand align the central axis of the opening of the locking member with the central axis of the cavity of the housing .

Referring again to through it can be understood that the locking member is in a first position when angle Ais greatest. Conversely it can be understood that the locking member is in a second position when angle Ais smallest.

In operation one of the posts can be adapted to fit simultaneously within the cavity of the housing and the opening of the locking member . When in the first position the locking member can prevent the posts from translating in a first direction as represented in by line . The locking mechanism can prohibit the translation of the posts in the first direction represented by line upon the application of five seconds of applied force in the first direction of 500 Newtons N .

The posts can be prohibited from translating in the first direction by an interference formed between the cavity and the opening of the locking member . More specifically the interference can be formed between the central axes and . As the central axis of the cavity cants relative to the central axis of the opening a biting edge of the of the locking member can engage the post . It can be understood that the biting edge can prevent axial translation of the posts through the opening in the direction in which the locking member is oriented. In a particular embodiment the posts can be prohibited from translating axially in a direction towards the biting edge upon application of a force of less than 500 N as sustained for five seconds.

In a particular aspect the biting edge can comprise teeth extending radially inward. In another aspect the biting edge can comprise a roughened surface. In yet a further aspect the biting edge can be have a sharp lip capable of forming a groove or channel in the outer surface of the posts . In another aspect the biting edge can comprise a rolled over surface of the locking member .

While the locking member is in oriented in the first position the posts can translate in a second direction as represented in by line upon an application of force of no greater than 45 N such as no greater than 40 N no greater than 35 N no greater than 30 N no greater than 25 N no greater than 20 N no greater than 15 N no greater than 10 N or even no greater than 5 N.

The locking member can be adapted to prevent relative axial translation of the posts within the cavity of the housing in a first direction represented by line upon the application of force in the first direction of no greater than 500 N while simultaneously permitting translation of the posts within the cavity of the housing upon the application of a force in the second direction represented by line of no greater than 45 N.

In a particular aspect the posts can translate axially within the cavity upon the application of no greater than 45 N in both the first or second directions when the locking member is oriented in the second position. In the second position the interference fit between the axes and is reduced allowing for substantially free axial translation of the posts within the cavity along the central axis .

In a particular aspect it is possible to minimize variance between head restraint assemblies in accordance with embodiments herein. Previous adjustable head restraint assemblies have been manufactured such that the head restraint posts are intentionally misaligned and not oriented parallel with one another. This misalignment allows the posts to form an interference fit with the seat back. This misalignment has several unintended consequences. Particularly these previous assemblies can exhibit a high standard deviation in tolerance and slidability. As a result the forces to slide the assembly vertically in the upward and downward directions can vary substantially between assemblies. Additionally previous adjustable head restraint assemblies can rattle and even squeak during vehicular operation as the post can move radially relative to the seat back rattling against the seat back.

Embodiments can minimize the standard deviation between commercial lots of assemblies. Specifically because various embodiments do not rely on post misalignment to form an interference fit between the posts and the seat back the force required to translate each of a lot of headrest assemblies vertically in the upward and downward directions can have a standard deviation of no greater than 5 Newtons N such as no greater than 4 N no greater than 3 N no greater than 2 or even no greater than 1 N. As a result the variance between assemblies can be reduced.

Moreover reaction to radial deflection can be such that deflection of the internal framework of the cushion upon the application of 20 N of force perpendicular to the central axis can be no greater than 5 mm. The deflection of the framework of the headrest cushion can vary by no greater than 4 mm no greater than 3 mm or even no greater than 2 mm. Accordingly the standard deviation of deflection can be no greater than 1.8 mm such as no greater than 1.6 mm no greater than 1.5 mm no greater than 1.4 mm no greater than 1.3 mm no greater than 1.2 mm no greater than 1.1 mm no greater than 1 mm no greater than 0.9 mm no greater than 0.8 mm no greater than 0.7 mm no greater than 0.6 mm no greater than 0.5 mm no greater than 0.4 mm no greater than 0.3 mm no greater than 0.2 mm or even no greater than 0.1 mm. Additionally the standard deviation can be within a range between and including any of the ratio values described above.

In a particular aspect the commercial lot being test for variance can include at least 30 assemblies such as at least 50 assemblies at least 100 assemblies at least 200 assemblies at least 500 assemblies at even at least 1 000 assemblies.

Many different aspects and embodiments are possible. Some of those aspects and embodiments are described below. After reading this specification skilled artisans will appreciate that those aspects and embodiments are only illustrative and do not limit the scope of the present invention. Embodiments may be in accordance with any one or more of the items as listed below.

Item 1. A guide sleeve comprising a bearing comprising a generally cylindrical body having a sidewall wherein the sidewall includes an undeformed portion a plurality of wave structures protruding radially inward from the undeformed portion and a locking mechanism coupled to the bearing wherein the locking mechanism is adapted to engage a post.

Item 2. An adjustable head restraint assembly comprising a head restraint comprising a member and a first and second post extending from the member a frame for receiving the head restraint the frame including a first and second mounting fixture for the first and second posts a first guide sleeve according to claim the first guide sleeve affixed to the first mounting fixture and slidably engaged to the first post and a second guide sleeve the second guide sleeve affixed to the second mounting fixture and slidably engaged to the second post.

Item 3. The guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the body has an axial length and wherein the body further comprises a gap extending along the entire axial length of the body wherein the gap establishes a split in the body.

Item 4. The guide sleeve according to item 4 wherein the gap establishes a split in the body defining a first end and a second end.

Item 5. The guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein at least three wave structures extend circumferentially around the body as seen in a cross section perpendicular to the central axis of the bearing.

Item 6. The guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein each wave structure has a length L wherein the bearing has an axial length L and wherein Lis at least 0.3 L.

Item 7. The guide sleeve according to item 6 wherein there are at least two rows of wave structures wherein the rows of wave structures are separated by at least 0.1 L.

Item 8. The guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the wave structures are axially staggered on the sidewall.

Item 9. The guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the bearing comprises a composite structure.

Item 10. The guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the bearing comprises a backing and a low friction layer.

Item 12. The guide sleeve according to any one of items 10 11 wherein the low friction layer comprises a polymer.

Item 13. The guide sleeve according to any one of items 10 12 wherein the low friction layer comprises a fluoropolymer.

Item 14. The guide sleeve according to any one of items 10 13 wherein the low friction layer comprises PTFE.

Item 15. The guide sleeve according to any one of items 10 14 wherein the low friction layer is positioned radially inside of the backing.

Item 16. The guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the locking mechanism further comprises at least one tab extending radially inward wherein the bearing comprises a groove and wherein the tab of the locking mechanism is adapted to engage with the groove of the bearing.

Item 18. The assembly according to any one of items 2 17 wherein each of the guide sleeves is welded adhered or mechanically interlocked to each of the mounting fixtures.

Item 19. The assembly according to any one of the preceding items wherein the first and second posts are substantially parallel to each other.

Item 1. A commercial lot of head restraint assemblies including at least 20 assemblies each assembly comprising a head restraint comprising a body and a first and a second post extending from the body a frame for receiving the head restraint the frame including a first and s second mounting fixture for the first and second posts respectively a first bearing fitted between the first post and the first mounting fixture and a second bearing fitted between the second post and the second mounting fixture wherein a force required to translate each of the head restraints in the vertically upward direction is not greater than 45 Newtons N and the force varies in the commercial lot by a standard deviation of no greater than 5 N.

Item 2. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to the preceding item wherein each of the head restraints deflects no greater than 2.5 mm upon an application of force of 20 N perpendicular to the planar axis.

Item 3. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of the preceding items wherein the standard deviation is no greater than 4.5 N no greater than 4 N no greater than 3.5 N no greater than 3 N no greater than 2.5 N no greater than 2 N no greater than 1.5 N or even no greater than 1 N.

Item 4. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of the preceding items wherein the commercial lot includes at least 30 assemblies such as at least 50 assemblies at least 100 assemblies at least 200 assemblies at least 500 assemblies or even at least 1 000 assemblies.

Item 5. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of the preceding items wherein the first and second bearings comprise metal.

Item 6. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of the preceding items wherein the first and second bearings further comprise a low friction layer engaged with the bearing and wherein the low friction layer forms an inner surface of the bearing.

Item 7. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to item 6 wherein the low friction layer comprises a polymer.

Item 8. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of items 7 7 wherein the low friction layer comprises a fluoropolymer such as PTFE.

Item 9. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of the preceding items further comprising a locking member the locking member coupled to one of the first and second bearings wherein the locking member is adapted to prevent axial translation of the posts relative to the first and second bearings in at least one axial direction.

Item 10. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of the preceding items further comprising a locking member having an opening including a central axis wherein the locking member is adapted to receive the post the post having a central axis the locking member being adapted to be movable between a first position and a second position wherein in the first position the central axis of the locking member and the central axis of the post are non parallel and intersect at an acute angle A and wherein in the second position Ais lesser than Ain the first position.

Item 11. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of the preceding items wherein the bearings further comprise a plurality of wave structures.

Item 12. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to item 11 wherein the wave structures project radially inward.

Item 13. The commercial lot of head restraint assemblies according to any one of the preceding items wherein the first bearing forms a zero clearance fit with the first post and wherein the second bearing forms a zero clearance fit with the second post.

Item 1. A head restraint height adjustment apparatus comprising a housing including a bore defining an axial cavity having a central axis a locking member positioned within the housing wherein the locking member is biased to cant relative to the central axis of the cavity.

Item 2. A head restraint height adjustment apparatus comprising a housing comprising a bore defining an axial cavity having a central axis and a locking member positioned within the housing the locking member having an opening including a central axis the opening being in open communication with the bore the locking member being adapted to be movable between a first position and a second position wherein in the first position the central axes are non parallel and intersect at an acute angle A wherein in the second position the central axes intersect at an angle A and wherein Ais less than A.

Item 3. A head restraint height adjustment apparatus comprising a housing comprising a bore defining an axial cavity having a central axis a locking member positioned within the housing the locking member having an opening including a central axis the opening being in open communication with the bore the locking member being adapted to be movable between a first position and a second position wherein in the first position the central axes are non parallel and intersect at an acute angle A wherein in the second position the central axes intersect at an angle A and wherein Ais less than A and wherein the locking member is adapted to receive a post and wherein the locking member is adapted to prevent the post from translating in a vertically downward direction upon application of a force of 500 Newtons sustained for 5 seconds when the locking member is in the first position.

Item 4. The apparatus according to any one of items 2 or 3 further comprising an actuation member adapted to move the locking member between the first and second positions.

Item 5. The apparatus according to any one of the items 3 4 wherein at least one of the first and second posts are devoid of external notches.

Item 6. The apparatus according to any one of items 3 5 wherein each post has an adjustment length as defined by a length of the post that is visible when the apparatus is at a maximum height and wherein the locking member is adapted to engage the post at any position along the adjustment length.

Item 7. The apparatus according to any one of items 2 6 wherein Ais at least 1 degree such as at least 2 degrees at least 3 degrees at least 4 degrees at least 5 degrees at least 10 degrees at least 15 degrees at least 20 degrees at least 25 degrees at least 30 degrees at least 35 degrees at least 40 degrees or even at least 45 degrees.

Item 8. The apparatus according to any one of items 2 7 wherein Ais at least 1 degree less than A such as at least 2 degrees less at least 3 degrees less at least 4 degrees less at least 5 degrees less at least 6 degrees less at least 7 degrees less at least 8 degrees less at least 9 degrees less at least 10 degrees less at least 15 degrees less or even at least 20 degrees less.

Item 9. The apparatus according to any one of items 2 8 wherein Ais less than 10 degrees such as less than 5 degrees less than 4 degrees less than 3 degrees less than 2 degrees or even less than 1 degree.

Item 11. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding items wherein the bore has an inner diameter ID wherein the bore is adapted to receive a post having an outer diameter OD and wherein IDis greater than OD.

Item 12. The apparatus according to item 11 wherein a ratio of ID ODis at least 1.01 such as at least 1.1 at least 1.15 at least 1.2 at least 1.25 or even at least 1.3.

Item 13. The apparatus according to any one of items 11 12 wherein a ratio of ID ODis no greater than 1.5 such as no greater than 1.4 no greater than 1.3 no greater than 1.2 or even no greater than 1.1.

Item 14. The apparatus according to any one of items 2 13 wherein the area of the opening of the locking ring as viewed along the central axis of the cavity is greater when the locking member is in the second position than when the locking member is in the first position.

Item 15. The apparatus according to any one of items 2 14 wherein as viewed along the central axis of the cavity the opening of the locking member has a first perceptible area A wherein as viewed along the central axis of the cavity the opening of the locking member has a second perceptible area A and wherein Ais less than A.

Item 16. The apparatus according to item 15 wherein a ratio of A Ais less than 0.99 such as less than 0.95 less than 0.90 less than 0.85 less than 0.80 less than 0.75 less than 0.70 less than 0.65 or even less than 0.60.

Item 17. The apparatus according to any one of items 15 16 wherein a ratio of A Ais greater than 0.45 such as greater than 0.50 greater than 0.55 greater than 0.60 greater than 0.65 greater than 0.70 greater than 0.75 or even greater than 0.80.

Item 18. The apparatus according to any one of items 2 17 wherein the locking member is biased to the first position by a biasing element.

Item 20. A head restraint height adjustment apparatus comprising a head restraint comprising a body and a first and second post extending from the body at least the first post being devoid of external notches and a locking member adapted to engage the first post along an adjustment length wherein in a locked position the locking member prevents downward axial translation of the first post and wherein in an unlocked position the locking member permits both upward and downward axial translation of the first post.

Item 21. The head restraint height adjustment apparatus according to item 20 wherein the locking member is adapted to engage the first post such that in the unlocked position the post can translate freely upward and downward by application of a force not greater than 45 Newtons and in the locked position the post is prevented from downward translation by application of a force of 500 Newtons sustained for 5 seconds.

Item 22. An automotive seat back assembly comprising a seat back the seat back having the head restraint height adjustment apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims a first post engaged within the bore of the head restraint apparatus a second post and a head cushion engaged to and connecting the first and second posts.

Item 1. A head restraint guide sleeve adapted to receive a post wherein the guide sleeve has a radial stiffness of no less than about 2000 N mm and wherein the guide sleeve is adapted such that the post interference fit within the guide sleeve can translate axially therein upon an axial sliding force of no greater than about 30 N.

Item 2. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 1 wherein the guide sleeve is adapted to provide a radial stiffness of no less than about 2 250 N mm no less than about 2 500 N mm no less than about 2 750 N mm no less than about 3 000 N mm no less than about 3 500 N mm no less than about 4 000 N mm.

Item 3. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the guide sleeve is adapted such that the post can translate axially therein upon an axial sliding force of no greater than 29 N no greater than 28 N no greater than 27 N no greater than about 26 N no greater than about 25 N no greater than about 24 N no greater than about 23 N no greater than about 22 N no greater than about 21 N no greater than about 20 N no greater than about 19 N no greater than about 18 N no greater than about 17 N no greater than about 16 N no greater than about 15 N no greater than about 14 N no greater than about 13 N.

Item 4. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the guide sleeve comprises a metal substrate and a low friction layer.

Item 5. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 4 wherein the low friction layer comprises a polymer such as a fluoropolymer such as PTFE.

Item 6. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of items 4 or 5 wherein the low friction layer is welded adhered or mechanically interlocked with the metal substrate.

Item 7. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of items 1 6 wherein the guide sleeve further comprises a plurality of wave structures.

Item 8. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 7 wherein each of the plurality of wave structures extend radially inward.

Item 9. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the guide sleeve comprises a central axis and wherein a portion of the guide sleeve comprises at least three wave structures when viewed in a cross section with respect to the central axis of the guide sleeve.

Item 10. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of items 7 9 wherein the guide sleeve has an axial length L and wherein the guide sleeve has at least one feature selected from the following features 

Item 11. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of items 7 10 wherein each of the plurality of wave structures has a generally arcuate shape defining an apex.

Item 12. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 11 wherein each apex is adapted to provide a point contact location.

Item 13. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 11 wherein each apex has a planar portion adapted to provide an area contact location.

Item 14. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of the preceding items wherein the guide sleeve has an initial diameter D wherein the guide sleeve has an operational diameter D and wherein Dis less than D.

Item 15. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 14 wherein a ratio of D Dis no less than 0.4 no less than 0.5 no less than 0.6 no less than 0.7 no less than 0.8 no less than 0.9 no less than 0.95 no less than 0.96 no less than 0.97 no less than 0.98 no less than 0.99.

Item 16. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of items 14 15 wherein a ratio of D Dis no greater than 0.999 no greater than 0.995 no greater than 0.990 no greater than 0.985 no greater than 0.980 no greater than 0.975 no greater than 0.970 no greater than 0.950 no greater than 0.925 no greater than 0.900.

Item 17. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of items 14 16 wherein the post has an outer diameter D and wherein a ratio of D Dis no less than 1.005 no less than 1.006 no less than 1.007 no less than 1.008 no less than 1.009 no less than 1.010 no less than 1.011 no less than 1.012 no less than 1.013 no less than 1.014 no less than 1.015 no less than 1.020 not less than 1.025 not less than 1.030.

Item 18. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 17 wherein the ratio of D Dis no greater than 1.30 no greater than 1.25 no greater than 1.20 no greater than 1.15 no greater than 1.10.

Item 20. The head restraint preassembly according to item 19 wherein the first and second guide sleeves comprise a metal substrate and a low friction layer.

Item 21. The head restraint preassembly according to item 20 wherein the low friction layer comprises a polymer such as a fluoropolymer such as PTFE.

Item 22. The head restraint preassembly according to any one of items 20 or 21 wherein the low friction layer is welded adhered or mechanically interlocked with the metal substrate.

Item 23. The head restraint preassembly according to any one of items 20 22 wherein the guide sleeves further comprise a plurality of wave structures.

Item 24. The head restraint preassembly according to item 23 wherein each of the plurality of wave structures extend radially inward.

Item 25. The head restraint preassembly according to any one of items 19 24 wherein the guide sleeves comprise a central axis and wherein a portion of the guide sleeves comprise at least three wave structures when viewed in a cross section with respect to the central axis of the guide sleeve.

Item 26. The head restraint preassembly according to any one of items 19 25 wherein the guide sleeves have an axial length L and wherein the guide sleeves have at least one feature selected from the following features 

Item 27. The head restraint preassembly according to any one of items 19 26 wherein each of the plurality of wave structures has a generally arcuate shape defining an apex.

Item 28. The head restraint preassembly according to item 27 wherein each apex is adapted to provide a point contact location.

Item 29. The head restraint preassembly according to item 27 wherein each apex has a planar portion adapted to provide an area contact location.

Item 30. The head restraint preassembly according to any one of items 19 29 wherein the guide sleeves have an initial diameter D wherein the guide sleeves have an operational diameter D and wherein Dis less than D.

Item 31. The head restraint preassembly according to item 30 wherein a ratio of D Dis no less than 0.4 no less than 0.5 no less than 0.6 no less than 0.7 no less than 0.8 no less than 0.9 no less than 0.95 no less than 0.96 no less than 0.97 no less than 0.98 no less than 0.99.

Item 32. The head restraint preassembly according to any one of items 30 31 wherein a ratio of D Dis no greater than 0.999 no greater than 0.995 no greater than 0.990 no greater than 0.985 no greater than 0.980 no greater than 0.975 no greater than 0.970 no greater than 0.950 no greater than 0.925 no greater than 0.900.

Item 33. The head restraint guide sleeve according to any one of items 30 32 wherein the post has an outer diameter D and wherein a ratio of D Dis no less than 1.005 no less than 1.006 no less than 1.007 no less than 1.008 no less than 1.009 no less than 1.010 no less than 1.011 no less than 1.012 no less than 1.013 no less than 1.014 no less than 1.015 no less than 1.020 not less than 1.025 not less than 1.030.

Item 34. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 33 wherein the ratio of D Dis no greater than 1.30 no greater than 1.25 no greater than 1.20 no greater than 1.15 no greater than 1.10.

Item 1. A head restraint guide sleeve adapted to receive a post wherein the guide sleeve is adapted to have an assembled radial stiffness of no less than about 1000 N mm and wherein the post is adapted to be initially installed within the guide sleeve upon application of a force of no greater than about 100 N.

Item 2. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 1 wherein the head restraint guide sleeve comprises a generally cylindrical sidewall and a plurality of wave structures extending from the generally cylindrical sidewall.

Item 3. The head restraint guide sleeve according to item 2 wherein each wave structure of the plurality of wave structures extends inward from the generally cylindrical sidewall.

Item 4. A head restraint guide sleeve comprising a generally cylindrical sidewall and a plurality of wave structures extending inward from the sidewall wherein the guide sleeve has an initial unassembled radial stiffness of less than about 1000 N mm and wherein the guide sleeve is adapted to have an assembled radial stiffness as measured after a post is inserted into the guide sleeve of no less than about 1000 N mm.

Item 5. A head restraint preassembly comprising a head restraint including a body and a first and second post extending from the body a first guide sleeve adapted to engage with the first post and a second guide sleeve adapted to engage with the second post wherein the first guide sleeve includes a generally cylindrical sidewall and a plurality of wave structures extending inward from the generally cylindrical sidewall wherein the guide sleeve has an initial unassembled radial stiffness of less than about 1000 N mm and wherein the guide sleeve is adapted to have an assembled radial stiffness as measured after the post is inserted into the first guide sleeve of no less than about 1000 N mm.

Item 6. A head restraint preassembly comprising a head restraint including a body and a first and second post extending from the body a first guide sleeve adapted to engage with the first post and a second guide sleeve adapted to engage with the second post wherein the first guide sleeve includes a generally cylindrical sidewall and a plurality of wave structures extending inward from the generally cylindrical sidewall and wherein the at least one wave structure of the plurality of wave structures includes at least one feature prior to the post being inserted into the guide sleeve the feature selected from the group consisting of i an aperture extending through at least a portion of the at least one wave structure or ii a portion having a reduced thickness or iii a dimpled section.

Item 7. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of the preceding items wherein the post is adapted to be installed within the guide sleeve upon application of a force of no greater than about 95 N no greater than about 90 N no greater than about 85 N no greater than about 80 N no greater than about 75 N.

Item 8. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of the preceding items wherein the guide sleeve has an assembled radial stiffness of no less than about 1100 N mm no less than about 1200 N mm no less than about 1300 N mm no less than about 1500 N mm no less than about 1700 N mm no less than about 2000 N mm no less than about 2100 N mm no less than about 2200 N mm no less than about 2300 N mm no less than about 2400 N mm no less than about 2500 N mm no less than about 3000 N mm no less than about 3500 N mm no less than about 4000 N mm.

Item 9. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of the preceding items wherein the guide sleeve has an initial inner diameter D as measured along a best fit circle tangent to an innermost surface of the guide sleeve before the post is inserted into the guide sleeve wherein the guide sleeve has an operational diameter D as measured along a best fit circle tangent to an innermost surface of the guide sleeve after the post is inserted into the guide sleeve and wherein Dis greater than D.

Item 10. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to item 9 wherein a ratio of D Dis no less than about 1.0 no less than about 1.01 no less than about 1.02 no less than about 1.03 no less than about 1.04 no less than about 1.05 no less than about 1.10.

Item 11. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of the preceding items wherein the guide sleeve is adapted to absorb an angular misalignment with the post while maintaining the assembled radial stiffness the angular misalignment defined by a misalignment angle A as measured by the angle between the post and a central axis of the guide sleeve and wherein the guide sleeve is adapted to absorb an Aup to about 10 up to about 9 up to about 8 up to about 7 up to about 6 up to about 5 up to about 4 up to about 3 up to about 2 up to about 1 .

Item 12. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 2 5 or 7 10 wherein at least one wave structure of the plurality of wave structures includes at least one feature prior to the post being inserted into the guide sleeve the feature selected from the group consisting of i an aperture extending through at least a portion of the at least one wave structure or ii a portion having a reduced thickness or iii a dimpled section.

Item 13. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 11 wherein the aperture is adapted to at least partially close after the post is inserted into the first guide sleeve.

Item 14. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 12 wherein the aperture is at least partially on an innermost surface of the at least one wave structure of the plurality of wave structures.

Item 15. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 12 wherein the aperture is not on an innermost surface of the at least one wave structure of the plurality of wave structures.

Item 16. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 12 or 14 wherein the aperture extends along a side surface of at least one wave structure of the plurality of wave structures.

Item 17. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 15 wherein the aperture is generally polygonal.

Item 18. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 15 wherein the aperture is generally ellipsoidal.

Item 19. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 17 wherein the aperture comprises a first tapered end and a second tapered end opposite the first tapered end wherein the first and second tapered ends each comprise an acute angle A as viewed perpendicular to the aperture and wherein Ais less than about 45 degrees less than about 30 degrees less than about 25 degrees less than about 20 degrees less than about 15 degrees less than about 10 degrees.

Item 20. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 18 wherein the aperture has a maximum length L and a maximum width W as measured perpendicular to L.

Item 21. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to item 20 wherein a ratio of L Wis no less than about 1.0 no less than about 1.5 no less than about 2.0 no less than about 2.5 no less than about 3.0 no less than about 4.0 no less than about 5.0 no less than about 6.0 no less than about 7.0 no less than about 8.0 no less than about 9.0 no less than about 10.0 no less than about 15.0 no less than about 20.0 no less than about 25.0 no less than about 30.0.

Item 22. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 20 or 21 wherein the ratio of L Wis no greater than about 500 no greater than about 400 no greater than about 300 no greater than about 200 no greater than about 100 no greater than about 75 no greater than about 50 no greater than about 40.

Item 23. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 20 22 wherein each wave structure of the plurality of wave structures comprises a maximum length L and wherein a ratio of L Lis no greater than about 1.25 no greater than about 1.0 no greater than about 0.95 no greater than about 0.90 no greater than about 0.85 no greater than about 0.80 no greater than about 0.75 no greater than about 0.70 no greater than about 0.65 no greater than about 0.60.

Item 24. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to item 23 wherein the ratio of L Lis no less than about 0.01 no less than about 0.10 no less than about 0.20 no less than about 0.30 no less than about 0.40.

Item 25. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 20 24 wherein each wave structure of the plurality of wave structures comprises a maximum width W and wherein a ratio of W Wis no greater than about 1.25 no greater than about 1.0 no greater than about 0.95 no greater than about 0.90 no greater than about 0.85 no greater than about 0.80 no greater than about 0.75 no greater than about 0.70 no greater than about 0.65 no greater than about 0.60.

Item 26. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to item 25 wherein the ratio of W Wis no less than about 0.01 no less than about 0.10 no less than about 0.20 no less than about 0.30 no less than about 0.40.

Item 27. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 26 wherein each wave structure of the plurality of wave structures has a total surface area A wherein the portion having a reduced thickness has a surface area A and wherein a ratio of A Ais no less than about 0.05 no less than about 0.10 no less than about 0.15 no less than about 0.20 no less than about 0.25 no less than about 0.30 no less than about 0.35 no less than about 0.40 no less than about 0.45 no less than about 0.50 no less than about 0.60 no less than about 0.70 no less than about 0.80 no less than about 0.90

Item 28. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 27 wherein the generally cylindrical sidewall has a thickness T wherein the portion having a reduced thickness has a thickness T and wherein a ratio of T Tis no greater than about 0.99 no greater than about 0.95 no greater than about 0.90 no greater than about 0.85 no greater than about 0.80 no greater than about 0.75 no greater than about 0.70 no greater than about 0.65 no greater than about 0.60 no greater than about 0.55 no greater than about 0.50 no greater than about 0.40 no greater than about 0.30 no greater than about 0.20.

Item 29. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to item 28 wherein the ratio of T Tis no less than about 0.05 no less than about 0.10 no less than about 0.15 no less than about 0.20.

Item 30. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 29 wherein the portion having a reduced thickness is adapted to have a greater radial stiffness after the post is inserted into the guide sleeve.

Item 31. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 30 wherein the portion having a reduced thickness has an initially unassembled radial stiffness S wherein the portion having a reduced thickness has an assembled stiffness after the post is inserted into the guide sleeve S and wherein a ratio of S Sis no less than about 1.01 no less than about 1.05 no less than about 1.10 no less than about 1.20 no less than about 1.30 no less than about 1.40 no less than about 1.50 no less than about 1.75 no less than about 2.00.

Item 32. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 31 wherein the dimpled section is adapted to have a greater radial stiffness after the post is inserted into the guide sleeve.

Item 33. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 32 wherein the dimpled section comprises a corrugation.

Item 34. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 33 wherein the dimpled section comprises a plurality of corrugations.

Item 35. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 34 wherein the dimpled section comprises a perforation.

Item 36. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 35 wherein the dimpled section comprises a plurality of perforations.

Item 37. The head restraint guide sleeve or preassembly according to any one of items 6 36 wherein the dimpled section extends inward from an innermost surface of the at least one wave structure.

The radial stiffness of a head restraint assembly is tested by first inserting a post into a bearing. The post is held stationary at a first longitudinal position while a perpendicular normal force is applied against an outer surface of the bearing at a second longitudinal position. The normal force is gradually increased e.g. 100 N 200 N 300 N 400 N etc. to 1000 N and the resulting radial displacement of the bearing relative to the post is measured.

Sample 1 comprises a bearing and post in accordance with the present invention. In particular the bearing is formed from a multilayer composite i.e. 3 layers comprising an outer flouropolymer sliding layer comprising PTFE a steel substrate and a thin inner sliding layer to prevent metal to metal contact between the bearing and the post. The bearing further comprises four wave structures extending radially inward. The projections have a radial length of 1.0 mm as measured from the inner surface of the bearing and engage the posts at four contact locations. The initial diameter of the bearing as measured by a best fit circle tangent to the inner contact surface of the wave structures is approximately 13.78 mm. The post is formed from steel and has a diameter of 14 mm. The normal force is applied against the bearing at a rate of 0.3 mm min.

Sample 2 comprises a bearing formed from plastic having a cylindrical body with cutout tines extending radially inward. The tines comprise a plastic material contiguous with the cylindrical body. The initial inner diameter of the bearing is approximately 20.60 mm with each of the tines initially projecting radially inward a maximum radial distance of approximately 0.93 mm. A post is inserted into the bearing. The post is formed from steel and has a diameter of 19.60 mm. The normal force is applied against the bearing at a rate of 0.3 mm min. The results are shown in Table 1.

As illustrated in Table 1 Sample 1 has a radial stiffness of 4421 N mm whereas Sample 2 has a radial stiffness of 943 N mm. Thus the assembly of Sample 1 can provide at least a 468 increase in radial stiffness as compared to the assembly of Sample 2.

The axial sliding force i.e. the force necessary to axially translate the posts within the bearing is tested by first inserting a post at least partially into a bearing i.e. such that the post engages with the projections of the bearing . The bearing is held stationary while a force directed axially along the length of the post is applied against the axial end of the post. The force is increased until the post begins to translate longitudinally within the bearing and the resulting force required throughout the translation is measured. The results are shown in Table 2. It is noted that the maximum axial force was found during the initial stages of movement when the assemblies were required to overcome the effects associated with static friction.

As illustrated in Table 2 Sample 1 requires a maximum axial force to exhibit movement of 27.50 N whereas Sample 2 requires a maximum axial force of 53.63 N. Thus Sample 1 can translate within the bearing upon a maximum axial force that is less than 52 the maximum axial force required to translate the post of Sample 2

As illustrated in Table 2 Sample 1 required an average axial force throughout sliding of 12.8 N whereas Sample 2 required an average axial force throughout sliding of 39.62 N. Thus Sample 1 can freely translate within the bearing upon an average axial force that is less than 33 the average axial force required to translate the post of Sample 2. Many different aspects and embodiments are possible. Some of those aspects and embodiments are described below. After reading this specification skilled artisans will appreciate that those aspects and embodiments are only illustrative and do not limit the scope of the present invention. Embodiments may be in accordance with any one or more of the items as listed below.

Note that not all of the activities described above in the general description or the examples are required that a portion of a specific activity may not be required and that one or more further activities may be performed in addition to those described. Still further the order in which activities are listed is not necessarily the order in which they are performed.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any feature s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature of any or all the claims.

The specification and illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The specification and illustrations are not intended to serve as an exhaustive and comprehensive description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that use the structures or methods described herein. Separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment and conversely various features that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Further reference to values stated in ranges includes each and every value within that range. Many other embodiments may be apparent to skilled artisans only after reading this specification. Other embodiments may be used and derived from the disclosure such that a structural substitution logical substitution or another change may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the disclosure is to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

