---

title: Three-dimensional rock properties using cross well seismic
abstract: Various implementations directed to determining three-dimensional (3D) rock properties using cross well seismic are provided. In one implementation, a method may include receiving 3D seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of a region of interest. The method may also include receiving cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of the region of interest. The method may further include determining a first set of rock properties of the region of interest based on the cross well seismic data. The method may additionally include determining one or more variograms based on the first set of rock properties. The method may also include determining one or more 3D rock properties of the region of interest based on the one or more variograms and the 3D seismic data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09581710&OS=09581710&RS=09581710
owner: WESTERNGECO L.L.C.
number: 09581710
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141024
---
In a seismic survey a plurality of seismic sources such as explosives vibrators air guns and or the like may be sequentially activated near the surface of the earth or in a wellbore to generate energy i.e. seismic waves which may propagate into and through the earth. The seismic waves may be reflected back by geological formations within the earth and the resultant seismic wavefield may be sampled by a plurality of seismic receivers such as geophones hydrophones and the like. Each receiver may be configured to acquire seismic data at the receiver s location normally in the form of a seismogram representing the value of some characteristic of the seismic wavefield against time. The acquired seismograms or seismic data may be transmitted wirelessly or over electrical or optical cables to a recorder system. The recorder system may then store analyze and or transmit the seismic data. This data may be used to generate an image of subsurface formations in the earth and may also be used to detect the possible presence of hydrocarbons changes in the subsurface formations and the like.

In one scenario three dimensional 3D surface seismic data may be generated and recorded by the receivers where the 3D surface seismic data may represent a set of sound vibrations propagating in three dimensions within the earth i.e. along x y and z axes . Such 3D surface seismic may be used to locate prospective reef development. Reef tops may mark an interface from shale to limestone that may creates a high reflectivity event in the seismic wavefield. However in some scenarios 3D surface seismic images may have less resolution than images derived from other seismic data such as by borehole seismic data.

Various implementations directed to determining three dimensional 3D rock properties using cross well seismic are provided. In one implementation a method may include receiving 3D seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of a region of interest. The method may also include receiving cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of the region of interest. The method may further include determining a first set of rock properties of the region of interest based on the cross well seismic data. The method may additionally include determining one or more variograms based on the first set of rock properties. The method may also include determining one or more 3D rock properties of the region of interest based on the one or more variograms and the 3D seismic data.

In another implementation a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a plurality of computer executable instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to receive 3D seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of a region of interest. The computer executable instructions may also cause the computer to receive cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of the region of interest. The computer executable instructions may further cause the computer to determine a first set of rock properties of the region of interest based on the cross well seismic data. The computer executable instructions may additionally cause the computer to determine one or more variograms based on the first set of rock properties. The computer executable instructions may also cause the computer to determine one or more 3D rock properties of the region of interest based on the one or more variograms and the 3D seismic data.

In yet another implementation a computer system may include a processor and a memory the memory having a plurality of program instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to receive 3D seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of a region of interest. The plurality of program instructions may also cause the processor to receive cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of the region of interest. The plurality of program instructions may further cause the processor to determine a first set of rock properties of the region of interest based on the cross well seismic data. The plurality of program instructions may additionally cause the processor to determine one or more variograms based on the first set of rock properties. The plurality of program instructions may also cause the processor to determine one or more 3D rock properties of the region of interest based on the one or more variograms and the 3D seismic data.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure. Indeed the systems methods processing procedures techniques and workflows disclosed herein may complement or replace conventional methods for identifying isolating and or processing various aspects of seismic signals or other data that is collected from a subsurface region or other multi dimensional space including time lapse seismic data collected in a plurality of surveys.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

It is specifically intended that the claims not be limited to the implementations and illustrations contained herein but include modified forms of those implementations including portions of the implementations and combinations of elements of different implementations as come within the scope of the following claims.

Reference will now be made in detail to various implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and figures. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to obscure aspects of the embodiments.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first object could be termed a second object and similarly a second object could be termed a first object without departing from the scope of the claims. The first object and the second object are both objects respectively but they are not to be considered the same object.

The terminology used in the description of the present disclosure herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations and is not intended to be limiting of the present disclosure. As used in the description of the present disclosure and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses one or more possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the terms up and down upper and lower upwardly and downwardly below and above and other similar terms indicating relative positions above or below a given point or element may be used in connection with some implementations of various technologies described herein. However when applied to equipment and methods for use in wells that are deviated or horizontal or when applied to equipment and methods that when arranged in a well are in a deviated or horizontal orientation such terms may refer to a left to right right to left or other relationships as appropriate.

It should also be noted that in the development of any such actual implementation numerous decisions specific to circumstance may be made to achieve the developer s specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which will vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The terminology and phraseology used herein is solely used for descriptive purposes and should not be construed as limiting in scope. Language such as having containing or involving and variations thereof is intended to be broad and encompass the subject matter listed thereafter equivalents and additional subject matter not recited.

Furthermore the description and examples are presented solely for the purpose of illustrating the different embodiments and should not be construed as a limitation to the scope and applicability. While any composition or structure may be described herein as having certain materials it should be understood that the composition could optionally include two or more different materials. In addition the composition or structure may also include some components other than the ones already cited. It should also be understood that throughout this specification when a range is described as being useful or suitable or the like it is intended that any value within the range including the end points is to be considered as having been stated. Furthermore respective numerical values should be read once as modified by the term about unless already expressly so modified and then read again as not to be so modified unless otherwise stated in context. For example a range of from 1 to 10 is to be read as indicating a respective possible number along the continuum between about 1 and about 10. In other words when a certain range is expressed even if a few specific data points are explicitly identified or referred to within the range or even when no data points are referred to within the range it is to be understood that the inventors appreciate and understand that any data points within the range are to be considered to have been specified and that the inventors have possession of the entire range and points within the range.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

One or more implementations of various techniques for determining three dimensional 3D rock properties using cross well seismic will now be described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs.

Computer facilities may be positioned at various locations about the production field e.g. the surface unit and or at remote locations. Surface unit may be used to communicate with the drilling tools and or offsite operations as well as with other surface or downhole sensors. Surface unit may be capable of communicating with the drilling tools to send commands to the drilling tools and to receive data therefrom. Surface unit may also collect data generated during the drilling operation and produce data output which may then be stored or transmitted.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about production field to collect data relating to various production field operations as described previously. As shown sensor S may be positioned in one or more locations in the drilling tools and or at rig to measure drilling parameters such as weight on bit torque on bit pressures temperatures flow rates compositions rotary speed and or other parameters of the field operation. Sensors S may also be positioned in one or more locations in the circulating system.

Drilling tools . may include a bottom hole assembly BHA not shown generally referenced near the drill bit e.g. within several drill collar lengths from the drill bit . The bottom hole assembly may include capabilities for measuring processing and storing information as well as communicating with surface unit . The bottom hole assembly may further include drill collars for performing various other measurement functions.

The bottom hole assembly may include a communication subassembly that communicates with surface unit . The communication subassembly may be adapted to send signals to and receive signals from the surface using a communications channel such as mud pulse telemetry electro magnetic telemetry or wired drill pipe communications. The communication subassembly may include for example a transmitter that generates a signal such as an acoustic or electromagnetic signal which is representative of the measured drilling parameters. It may be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a variety of telemetry systems may be employed such as wired drill pipe electromagnetic or other known telemetry systems.

The wellbore may be drilled according to a drilling plan that is established prior to drilling. The drilling plan may set forth equipment pressures trajectories and or other parameters that define the drilling process for the wellsite. The drilling operation may then be performed according to the drilling plan. However as information is gathered the drilling operation may need to deviate from the drilling plan. Additionally as drilling or other operations are performed the subsurface conditions may change. The earth model may also need adjustment as new information is collected.

The data gathered by sensors S may be collected by surface unit and or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by sensors S may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in one or more databases and or transmitted on or offsite. The data may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be stored in separate databases or combined into a single database.

Surface unit may include transceiver to allow communications between surface unit and various portions of the production field or other locations. Surface unit may also be provided with or functionally connected to one or more controllers not shown for actuating mechanisms at production field . Surface unit may then send command signals to production field in response to data received. Surface unit may receive commands via transceiver or may itself execute commands to the controller. A processor may be provided to analyze the data locally or remotely make the decisions and or actuate the controller. In this manner production field may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected. This technique may be used to optimize portions of the field operation such as controlling drilling weight on bit pump rates or other parameters. These adjustments may be made automatically based on computer protocol and or manually by an operator. In some cases well plans may be adjusted to select optimum operating conditions or to avoid problems.

Wireline tool . may be operatively connected to for example geophones and a computer . of a seismic truck . of . Wireline tool . may also provide data to surface unit . Surface unit may collect data generated during the wireline operation and may produce data output that may be stored or transmitted. Wireline tool . may be positioned at various depths in the wellbore to provide a survey or other information relating to the subterranean formation .

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about production field to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown sensor S may be positioned in wireline tool . to measure downhole parameters which relate to for example porosity permeability fluid composition and or other parameters of the field operation.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about production field to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown the sensor S may be positioned in production tool . or associated equipment such as Christmas tree gathering network surface facility and or the production facility to measure fluid parameters such as fluid composition flow rates pressures temperatures and or other parameters of the production operation.

Production may also include injection wells for added recovery. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite s .

While illustrate tools used to measure properties of a production field such as an oilfield or gas field it may be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with other operations such as mines aquifers storage or other subterranean facilities. Also while certain data acquisition tools are depicted it may be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing parameters such as seismic two way travel time density resistivity production rate etc. of the subterranean formation and or its geological formations may be used. Various sensors S may be located at various positions along the wellbore and or the monitoring tools to collect and or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.

The field configurations of may be an example of a field usable with oilfield or gas field application frameworks. At least part of the production field may be on land water and or sea. Also while a single field measured at a single location may be depicted oilfield or gas field applications may be utilized with any combination of one or more oilfields and or gas field one or more processing facilities and one or more wellsites.

Data plots . . may be examples of static data plots that may be generated by data acquisition tools . . respectively however it should be understood that data plots . . may also be data plots that are updated in real time. These measurements may be analyzed to better define the properties of the formation s and or determine the accuracy of the measurements and or for checking for errors. The plots of each of the respective measurements may be aligned and scaled for comparison and verification of the properties.

Static data plot . may be a seismic two way response over a period of time. Static plot . may be core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation . The core sample may be used to provide data such as a graph of the density porosity permeability or some other physical property of the core sample over the length of the core. Tests for density and viscosity may be performed on the fluids in the core at varying pressures and temperatures. Static data plot . may be a logging trace that may provide a resistivity or other measurement of the formation at various depths.

A production decline curve or graph . may be a dynamic data plot of the fluid flow rate over time. The production decline curve may provide the production rate as a function of time. As the fluid flows through the wellbore measurements may be taken of fluid properties such as flow rates pressures composition etc.

Other data may also be collected such as historical data user inputs economic information and or other measurement data and other parameters of interest. As described below the static and dynamic measurements may be analyzed and used to generate models of the subterranean formation to determine characteristics thereof. Similar measurements may also be used to measure changes in formation aspects over time.

The subterranean structure may have a plurality of geological formations . .. As shown this structure may have several formations or layers including a shale layer . a carbonate layer . a shale layer . and a sand layer .. A fault may extend through the shale layer . and the carbonate layer .. The static data acquisition tools may be adapted to take measurements and detect characteristics of the formations.

While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures is depicted it may be appreciated that production field may contain a variety of geological structures and or formations sometimes having extreme complexity. In some locations such as below the water line fluid may occupy pore spaces of the formations. Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formations and or its geological features. While each acquisition tool may be shown as being in specific locations in production field it may be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more locations across one or more fields or other locations for comparison and or analysis.

The data collected from various sources such as the data acquisition tools of may then be processed and or evaluated. The seismic data displayed in static data plot . from data acquisition tool . may be used by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formations and features. The core data shown in static plot . and or log data from well log . may be used by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the subterranean formation. The production data from graph . may be used by the reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics. The data analyzed by the geologist geophysicist and the reservoir engineer may be analyzed using modeling techniques.

Each wellsite may have equipment that forms wellbore into the earth. The wellbores may extend through subterranean formations including reservoirs . These reservoirs may contain fluids such as hydrocarbons. The wellsites may draw fluid from the reservoirs and pass them to the processing facilities via surface networks . The surface networks may have tubing and control mechanisms for controlling the flow of fluids from the wellsite to processing facility .

Although two vessels are illustrated in a single vessel with multiple source arrays or multiple vessels with single or multiple sources may be used. In some implementations at least one source and or source array may be located on the rig as shown by the rig source in . As the vessels travel on predetermined or systematic paths their locations may be recorded through the use of navigation system . In some implementations the navigation system may utilize a global positioning system GPS to record the position speed direction and other parameters of the tow vessels .

As shown the global positioning system may utilize or work in cooperation with satellites which operate on a suitable communication protocol e.g. VSAT communications. The VSAT communications may be used among other things to supplement VHF and UHF communications. The GPS information can be independent of the VSAT communications and may be input to a processing system or other suitable processors to predict the future movement and position of the vessels based on real time information. In addition to predicting future movements the processing system also can be utilized to provide directions and coordinates as well as to determine initial shot times as described above. A control system effectively utilizes the processing system in cooperation with a source controller and a synchronization unit to synchronize the sources with the downhole data acquisition system .

As shown the one or more vessels may respectively tow one or more acoustic sources source arrays . The source arrays include one or more seismic signal generators e.g. air guns configured to create a seismic and or sonic disturbance. In the implementation illustrated the tow vessels comprise a master source vessel Vessel A and a slave source vessel Vessel B . However other numbers and arrangements of tow vessels may be employed to accommodate the parameters of a given seismic profiling application. For example one source may be mounted at rig see or at another suitable location and both vessels may serve as slave vessels with respect to the rig source or with respect to a source at another location.

However a variety of source arrangements and implementations may be used. When utilizing dithered timing between the sources for example the master and slave locations of the sources can be adjusted according to the parameters of the specific seismic profiling application. In some implementations one of the source vessels e.g. source vessel A in may serve as the master source vessel while the other source vessel serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. However an alternate source vessel e.g. source vessel B in may serve as the master source vessel while the other source vessel serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing.

Similarly the rig source may serve as the master source while one of the source vessels e.g. vessel A serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. The rig source also may serve as the master source while the other source vessel e.g. vessel B serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. In some implementations the rig source may serve as the master source while both of the source vessels serve as slave source vessels each with dithered firings. These and other implementations may be used in achieving the desired synchronization of sources with the downhole acquisition system .

The acoustic receivers of data acquisition system may be deployed in borehole via a variety of delivery systems such as wireline delivery systems slickline delivery systems and other suitable delivery systems. Although a single acoustic receiver could be used in the borehole a plurality of receivers as shown may be located in a variety of positions and orientations. The acoustic receivers may be configured for sonic and or seismic reception. Additionally the acoustic receivers may be communicatively coupled with processing equipment located downhole. In one implementation processing equipment may comprise a telemetry system for transmitting data from acoustic receivers to additional processing equipment located at the surface e.g. on the rig and or vessels .

Depending on the data communication system surface processing equipment may include a radio repeater an acquisition and logging unit and a variety of other and or additional signal transfer components and signal processing components. The radio repeater along with other components of processing equipment may be used to communicate signals e.g. UHF and or VHF signals between vessels and rig and to enable further communication with downhole data acquisition system .

It should be noted the UHF and VHF signals can be used to supplement each other. The UHF band may support a higher data rate throughput but can be susceptible to obstructions and has less range. The VHF band may be less susceptible to obstructions and may have increased radio range but its data rate throughput is lower. In the VHF communications may punch through an obstruction in the form of a production platform.

In some implementations the acoustic receivers may be coupled to surface processing equipment via a hardwired connection. In other implementations wireless or optical connections may be employed. In still other implementations combinations of coupling techniques may be employed to relay information received downhole via the acoustic receivers to an operator and or the control system described above located at least in part at the surface.

In addition to providing raw or processed data uphole to the surface the coupling system e.g. downhole processing equipment and surface processing equipment may be designed to transmit data or instructions downhole to the acoustic receivers . For example the surface processing equipment may comprise a synchronization unit which may coordinate the firing of sources e.g. dithered delayed source arrays with the acoustic receivers located in borehole . In one implementation the synchronization unit may use a coordinated universal time to ensure accurate timing. In some implementations the coordinated universal time system may be employed in cooperation with global positioning system to obtain UTC data from the GPS receivers of GPS system .

In one implementation the overall seismic system may employ various arrangements of sources on vessels and or rig with each location having at least one source and or source array to generate acoustic source signals. The acoustic receivers of downhole acquisition system may be configured to receive the source signals at least some of which are reflected off a reflection boundary located beneath a sea bottom . The acoustic receivers may generate data streams that are relayed uphole to a suitable processing system e.g. the processing system described above via downhole telemetry processing equipment .

While the acoustic receivers generate data streams the navigation system may determine a real time speed position and direction of each vessel and may estimate initial shot times accomplished via signal generators of the appropriate source arrays . The source controller may be part of surface processing equipment located on rig on vessels or at other suitable locations and may be designed to control firing of the acoustic source signals so that the timing of an additional shot time e.g. a shot time via slave vessel is based on the initial shot time e.g. a shot time via master vessel plus a dither value.

The synchronization unit of for example surface processing equipment may coordinate the firing of dithered acoustic signals with recording of acoustic signals by the downhole acquisition system . The processor system may be configured to separate a data stream of the initial shot and a data stream of the additional shot via a coherency filter. As discussed above however other implementations may employ pure simultaneous acquisition and or may not use separation of the data streams. In such implementations the dither is effectively zero.

After an initial shot time at T 0 T0 is determined subsequent firings of acoustic source arrays may be offset by a dither. The dithers can be positive or negative and sometimes are created as pre defined random delays. Use of dithers facilitates the separation of simultaneous or near simultaneous data sets to simplify the data processing. The ability to have the acoustic source arrays fire in simultaneous or near simultaneous patterns may reduce the overall amount of time for three dimensional vertical seismic profiling source acquisition. This in turn may significantly reduce rig time. As a result the overall cost of the seismic operation may be reduced rendering the data intensive process much more accessible.

If the acoustic source arrays used in the seismic data acquisition are widely separated the difference in move outs across the acoustic receiver array of the wave fields generated by the acoustic sources can be used to obtain a clean data image via processing the data without further special considerations. However even when the acoustic sources are substantially co located in time data acquired by any of the methods involving dithering of the firing times of the individual sources described herein can be processed to a formation image leaving hardly any artifacts in the final image. This is accomplished by taking advantage of the incoherence of the data generated by one acoustic source when seen in the reference time of the other acoustic source .

In one implementation a cross well seismic survey may be used to build and or calibrate a seismic velocity model. The cross well seismic survey may be performed by creating a seismic event in one well called a source well and measuring the event in another well called a monitoring well. For example illustrates a cross well seismic system in accordance with implementations of various technologies and techniques described herein. In particular the system may include a source well and a monitoring well . Seismic monitoring equipment may be run into the monitoring well for purposes of monitoring an ongoing fracturing operation in the source well e.g. for purposes of microseismic hydraulic fracture monitoring . However before such monitoring may occur a seismic velocity model that characterizes the formation s between the wells and may first be developed.

As depicted in in some implementations the wells and may be cased and thus may be lined by respective casing strings and respectively. However other implementations may be used with uncased wellbores. In another implementation the system may be applied to subsea wells.

In performing a cross well survey a seismic source tool may be run into the source well to a known position. When activated the seismic source tool may produces a shot or seismic event which may be measured by a seismic receiver tool that is located in the monitoring well . In particular the seismic energy that is recorded by the seismic receiver tool may be the result of a seismic wave that is generated by the tool after having traveled through and been reflected within the surrounding formation s . The recorded seismic energy may be a function of the formation response the sensor response and the response of the recording instrument.

In one implementation the tools and may be wireline tools that are run downhole on wirelines and respectively. In another implementation a tubular string may be used in conjunction with tools and .

In another implementation the accuracy with which it triangulates the location of a detected microseismic event depends on the source and receiver geometry and the quality and signal to noise ratio SNR of the measurement. The multi well monitoring technique used in the system may offer improved location accuracy and better estimation of the source mechanism as compared to a single well monitoring arrangement.

Attention is now directed to methods techniques and workflows for processing and or transforming collected data that are in accordance with some implementations. Some operations in the processing procedures methods techniques and workflows disclosed herein may be combined and or the order of some operations may be changed. In the geosciences and or other multi dimensional data processing disciplines various interpretations sets of assumptions and or domain models such as velocity models may be refined in an iterative fashion this concept may be applicable to the procedures methods techniques and workflows as discussed herein. This iterative refinement can include use of feedback loops executed on an algorithmic basis such as via a computing system as discussed later and or through manual control by a user who may make determinations regarding whether a given action template or model has become accurate.

As noted above various forms of seismic surveys may be used to acquire seismic data related to a region of interest such as three dimensional 3D surface seismic surveys cross well seismic surveys and or the like.

In particular 3D surface seismic data may be generated and recorded by the receivers where the 3D surface seismic data may represent a set of sound vibrations propagating in three dimensions within the earth i.e. along x y and z axes . However in some scenarios 3D surface seismic images may have less resolution than images derived from other seismic data such as cross well seismic data.

Cross well seismic acquisition may produce a higher resolution image of the subsurface in comparison to other seismic methods such as 3D surface seismic and or vertical seismic profile VSP data. Accordingly cross well seismic may be employed in geologic environments where high vertical resolution may be used to carry out a reservoir characterization. However the two dimensional 2D image derived from the cross well seismic data may not span the entire region of interest as the image may be localized to an area between its source well and monitoring well. In contrast 3D surface seismic data may have spatial and vertical coverage which exceeds that of cross well seismic. For example 3D surface seismic data may spatially and vertically cover substantially close to 100 of the region of interest.

Accordingly in one implementation cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of a region of interest which may be 2D in nature may be used to enhance 3D surface seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of the region of interest. This enhancement may be carried out in the inverted rock property domain. In particular the result of such an enhancement may have the spatial and vertical coverage of the 3D surface seismic data with the resolution on the order of the cross well seismic data thereby producing high resolution 3D rock properties corresponding to the region of interest.

At block 3D surface seismic data for a region of interest may be received. The region of interest may include one or more subterranean formations or other areas of a subsurface of the earth that may be of particular interest. For example the region of interest may include one or more geological formations reservoirs and or the like that may possibly contain hydrocarbons.

The 3D surface seismic data may be obtained and or received using any implementation known to those skilled in the art such as the one or more implementations discussed above with respect to . The 3D surface seismic data may include one or more seismic traces recorded by one or more receivers e.g. geophone receiver shown in . A seismic trace may refer to the seismic data recorded by a particular channel of a data acquisition system where the channel can correspond to one receiver or a group of receivers. Further the received 3D surface seismic data may contain responses from one or more events where the events correspond to reflections of acoustic energy at interfaces such as the horizon shown in .

In one implementation two or more sets of 3D surface seismic data may be received for the region of interest. In such an implementation the two or more sets of 3D surface seismic data may include a set of compressional wave or P wave data and or a set of shear wave or S wave data. Acoustic energy emitted by a seismic source e.g. source of may predominantly be one or more P waves. When the acoustic energy undergoes reflection at an interface these waves may also undergo a partial mode conversion to one or more S wave. Thus the 3D surface seismic data acquired at a receiver may contain both P waves and S waves.

At block cross well seismic data for the region of interest may be received. The cross well seismic data may be obtained and or received using any implementation known to those skilled in the art such as the one or more implementations discussed above with respect to . Similar to the 3D surface seismic data the cross well seismic data acquired at a receiver may contain both P waves and S waves. In one implementation the cross well seismic data may be obtained using a plurality of source wells and or a plurality of monitoring wells. For example the cross well seismic data may be obtained using a single monitoring well positioned between a plurality of source wells. Conversely in another example the cross well seismic data may be obtained using a single source well positioned between a plurality of monitoring wells. Other configurations using a plurality of source wells and or a plurality of monitoring wells may also be used.

At block one or more seismic data processing techniques may be performed on the 3D surface seismic data. Such seismic data processing techniques may include prestack data processing such as migration and or the like. In one implementation a prestack depth migration PSDM may be performed on the received seismic data. The PSDM may be performed using any migration technique known to those skilled in the art such as reverse time migration RTM Kirchhoff depth migration Gaussian beam migration wave equation migration and or the like. An output of the migration may include one or more data records i.e. seismic traces gathered at a common surface location of image. A collection of traces either input or output with a common attribute such as source location or migrated output location may be referred to as a gather.

At block one or more seismic data processing techniques may be performed on the cross well seismic data. Similar to above such seismic data processing techniques may include prestack data processing such as migration and or the like including for example PSDM.

At block a seismic inversion may be performed on the processed 3D surface seismic data to obtain one or more 3D rock properties corresponding to the region of interest.

A seismic inversion may be a process by which seismic data is transformed into one or more rock properties describing a region of interest. Such a seismic inversion may include any number of processes known to those skilled in the art such as deterministic inversion stochastic inversion as further discussed below and or discrete spike inversion. In particular the seismic inversion may include acoustic inversion amplitude versus offset AVO inversion poststack multi component inversion multi component AVO inversion poststack time lapse inversion time lapse AVO inversion AVO azimuthal inversion trace integration colored inversion band limited inversion sparse spike inversion model based inversion neural networks and or the like.

The one or more rock properties that may be obtained via the seismic inversion process may include acoustic impedance shear impedance Poisson s ratio fluid factor bulk modulus Young s modulus P wave modulus shear modulus acoustic density and or the like.

At block a seismic inversion may be performed on the processed cross well seismic data to obtain one or more rock properties corresponding to the region of interest. In one implementation the seismic inversion may include one of the seismic inversions noted above with respect to block . Similarly the one or more rock properties obtained may include one or more of the rock properties listed above with respect to block . In one implementation the one or more rock properties obtained may include 2D rock properties. In such an implementation the 2D rock properties may be processed such as through interpolation extrapolation and or the like to simulate the rock properties in 3D.

At block one or more variograms may be determined based on the rock properties obtained at block . In one implementation a variogram may be a geostatistical tool used to depict spatial variance within groups of data plotted as a function of distance between data points. When variograms are constructed from log data in wells they can be used to map spatial and vertical variability. In one implementation the variograms may be used to map spatial and vertical variability for the region of interest.

Further one or more pseudo wells derived from the inverted cross well seismic data may be used to form the variograms via statistical analysis. A pseudo well may be a hypothetical well whose section is consistent with available formation geometry information in the analyzed area. Accordingly in one implementation one or more pseudo wells may be formed using the inverted cross well seismic data. In such an implementation the pseudo wells may be created at predetermined distances i.e. at selected traces within the inverted cross well seismic data.

At block a stochastic seismic inversion may be performed on the 3D rock properties derived in block using the one or more variograms derived in block . In one implementation a stochastic seismic inversion may be a method where the inversion is run for multiple iterations in order to produce multiple answers or to capture a full range of possible answers. In particular stochastic seismic inversion may be used to cover different approaches for determining the probability density functions of model parameter variables. Further the stochastic seismic inversion can be used for joint inversion of multiple geophysical data sets for better estimates of earth model parameters than inversion of individual data sets.

Accordingly the stochastic seismic inversion may be used to enhance 3D rock properties derived from processed 3D surface seismic data using variograms derived from inverted cross well seismic data. An output of such an inversion may produce high resolution 3D rock properties where the high resolution may correspond to the resolution of the cross well seismic data while maintaining the spatial and vertical coverage of the 3D surface seismic data.

In another implementation illustrates a flow diagram of a method for determining one or more high resolution 3D rock properties corresponding to the region of interest in accordance with implementations of various techniques described herein. In one implementation method may be performed by a computer application. It should be understood that while method indicates a particular order of execution of operations in some implementations certain portions of the operations might be executed in a different order. Further in some implementations additional operations or blocks may be added to the method. Likewise some operations or blocks may be omitted.

Blocks may correspond to blocks as described above. With respect to block a seismic inversion may be performed on the processed cross well seismic data to obtain one or more rock properties corresponding to the region of interest in a similar fashion as implemented in block .

At block one or more variograms may be determined based on the rock properties obtained at block . Block may be implemented similarly to block .

At block a stochastic seismic inversion may be performed on the processed 3D surface seismic data derived in block using the one or more variograms derived in block . In one implementation the stochastic seismic inversion may be used to enhance the processed 3D surface seismic data using the variograms derived from the inverted cross well seismic data. An output of such an inversion may produce high resolution 3D rock properties where the high resolution may correspond to the resolution of the cross well seismic data while maintaining the spatial and vertical coverage of the 3D surface seismic data.

In some implementations a method for determining one or more 3D rock properties may be provided. The method may receive 3D seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of a region of interest. The method may receive cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of the region of interest. The method may determine a first set of rock properties of the region of interest based on the cross well seismic data. The method may determine one or more variograms based on the first set of rock properties. The method may determine one or more 3D rock properties of the region of interest based on the one or more variograms and the 3D seismic data.

In some implementations the method may perform one or more seismic processing techniques on the received 3D seismic data and may perform the one or more seismic processing techniques on the received cross well seismic data. The one or more seismic processing techniques may include prestack data processing. The method may perform a first seismic inversion on the processed cross well seismic data to determine the first set of rock properties. The first seismic inversion may include deterministic inversions stochastic inversions or discrete spike inversions. The method may derive one or more pseudo wells based on the inverted cross well seismic data and may derive the one or more variograms based on the one or more pseudo wells. The method may perform a second seismic inversion on the processed 3D surface seismic data to determine a second set of rock properties. The second seismic inversion may include deterministic inversions stochastic inversions or discrete spike inversions. The method may perform a stochastic inversion on the second set of rock properties using the one or more variograms. The resolution of the 3D rock properties may be greater than the resolution of the second set of rock properties. The method may perform a stochastic inversion on the processed 3D seismic data using the one or more variograms.

In some implementations an information processing apparatus for use in a computing system is provided and includes means for receiving 3D seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of a region of interest. The information processing apparatus may also have means for receiving cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of the region of interest. The information processing apparatus may also have means for determining a first set of rock properties of the region of interest based on the cross well seismic data. The information processing apparatus may also have means for determining one or more variograms based on the first set of rock properties. The information processing apparatus may also have means for determining one or more 3D rock properties of the region of interest based on the one or more variograms and the 3D seismic data.

In some implementations a computing system is provided that includes at least one processor at least one memory and one or more programs stored in the at least one memory wherein the programs include instructions which when executed by the at least one processor cause the computing system to receive 3D seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of a region of interest. The programs may further include instructions to cause the computing system to receive cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of the region of interest. The programs may further include instructions to cause the computing system to determine a first set of rock properties of the region of interest based on the cross well seismic data. The programs may further include instructions to cause the computing system to determine one or more variograms based on the first set of rock properties. The programs may further include instructions to cause the computing system to determine one or more 3D rock properties of the region of interest based on the one or more variograms and the 3D seismic data.

In some implementations a computer readable storage medium is provided which has stored therein one or more programs the one or more programs including instructions which when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive 3D seismic data acquired in a seismic survey of a region of interest. The programs may further include instructions which cause the processor to receive cross well seismic data acquired in a cross well seismic survey of the region of interest. The programs may further include instructions which cause the processor to determine a first set of rock properties of the region of interest based on the cross well seismic data. The programs may further include instructions which cause the processor to determine one or more variograms based on the first set of rock properties. The programs may further include instructions which cause the processor to determine one or more 3D rock properties of the region of interest based on the one or more variograms and the 3D seismic data.

Implementations of various technologies described herein may be operational with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the various technologies described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers smartphones smartwatches personal wearable computing systems networked with other computing systems tablet computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The various technologies described herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. While program modules may execute on a single computing system it should be appreciated that in some implementations program modules may be implemented on separate computing systems or devices adapted to communicate with one another. A program module may also be some combination of hardware and software where particular tasks performed by the program module may be done either through hardware software or both.

The various technologies described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. The distributed computing environments may span multiple continents and multiple vessels ships or boats. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory a graphics processing unit GPU and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The GPU may be a microprocessor specifically designed to manipulate and implement computer graphics. The CPU may offload work to the GPU . The GPU may have its own graphics memory and or may have access to a portion of the system memory . As with the CPU the GPU may include one or more processing units and the processing units may include one or more cores. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The computing system may also include a host adapter that connects to a storage device via a small computer system interface SCSI bus a Fiber Channel bus an eSATA bus or using any other applicable computer bus interface. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs program data and a database system . The application programs may include various mobile applications apps and other applications configured to perform various methods and techniques described herein. The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computing system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . The remote computers may be another a computer a server computer a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many of the elements describes above relative to the computing system . The remote computers may also each include application programs similar to that of the computer action function.

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a router wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The router which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are merely examples and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The network interface may also utilize remote access technologies e.g. Remote Access Service RAS Virtual Private Networking VPN Secure Socket Layer SSL Layer 2 Tunneling L2T or any other suitable protocol . These remote access technologies may be implemented in connection with the remote computers .

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations. Also the program code may execute entirely on a user s computing device on the user s computing device as a stand alone software package on the user s computer and on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or a server computer.

The system computer may be located at a data center remote from the survey region. The system computer may be in communication with the receivers either directly or via a recording unit not shown to receive signals indicative of the reflected seismic energy. These signals after conventional formatting and other initial processing may be stored by the system computer as digital data in the disk storage for subsequent retrieval and processing in the manner described above. In one implementation these signals and data may be sent to the system computer directly from sensors such as geophones hydrophones and the like. When receiving data directly from the sensors the system computer may be described as part of an in field data processing system. In another implementation the system computer may process seismic data already stored in the disk storage. When processing data stored in the disk storage the system computer may be described as part of a remote data processing center separate from data acquisition. The system computer may be configured to process data as part of the in field data processing system the remote data processing system or a combination thereof.

Those with skill in the art will appreciate that any of the listed architectures features or standards discussed above with respect to the example computing system may be omitted for use with a computing system used in accordance with the various embodiments disclosed herein because technology and standards continue to evolve over time.

Of course many processing techniques for collected data including one or more of the techniques and methods disclosed herein may also be used successfully with collected data types other than seismic data. While certain implementations have been disclosed in the context of seismic data collection and processing those with skill in the art will recognize that one or more of the methods techniques and computing systems disclosed herein can be applied in many fields and contexts where data involving structures arrayed in a three dimensional space and or subsurface region of interest may be collected and processed e.g. medical imaging techniques such as tomography ultrasound MRI and the like for human tissue radar sonar and LIDAR imaging techniques and other appropriate three dimensional imaging problems.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

