---

title: Automated sprinkler control system
abstract: Aspects of the disclosure relate to a method that may include receiving a watering restriction for a location, detecting that a sprinkler controller is associated with a property within the location, and transmitting, to the sprinkler controller, the watering restriction. Additionally, a method may include receiving, at a sprinkler controller, a watering restriction for a location, the sprinkler controller associated with a property within the location, and adjusting, in response to the watering restriction, a sprinkling schedule for the property. Furthermore, a method may include receiving weather prediction information associated with a property, updating, in response to the weather prediction information, a sprinkling schedule for a sprinkler system associated with the property, receiving, after a time period, updated weather prediction information for the property, and updating the sprinkling schedule based on a comparison between the sprinkling schedule and the weather prediction information over the time period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565810&OS=09565810&RS=09565810
owner: Comcast Cable Communications, LLC
number: 09565810
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140211
---
Sprinkling controllers currently lack the necessary sophistication to adequately provide sufficient specificity connectivity and control to adequately meet needs of many users. Aspects herein address these and other issues and provide systems and methods for improved delivery of maintenance services for the home such as sprinkler control services.

A method may include receiving at a computing device a watering restriction for a location detecting that a sprinkler controller is associated with a property within the location and transmitting to the sprinkler controller the watering restriction. Alternatively or additionally the computing device may register sprinkler controllers within certain locations and update them based on changes in watering restrictions for those locations. Alternatively or additionally the watering controllers may receive periodic updates and filter those updates based on geographic information.

The method may alternatively or additionally include responding to the watering restriction by adjusting a sprinkling schedule for the property. The method may include receiving confirmation that the sprinkler controller associated with the property responded to the watering restriction by adjusting the sprinkling schedule for the property and transmitting to an entity issuing the watering restriction the confirmation. Alternatively or additionally the entity issuing the watering restriction may charge a lower water rate for the property in response to the confirmation.

Alternatively or additionally the location may include one or more geopolitical entities such as a city county state borough municipality territory self governing entity township incorporated area administrative division district village neighborhood or any portions of the foregoing such as even and odd street numbers and the watering restriction may include restrictions relevant to the one or more geopolitical boundaries or any portions thereof. The method may also include receiving various different watering restrictions associated with one or more geopolitical boundaries that may be associated with one or more locations detecting that a sprinkler controller is associated with a property within one or more of the geopolitical boundaries and transmitting to the sprinkler controller various different watering restrictions as appropriate for that particular location or address. Alternatively or additionally the location may include a subsection of a county and the different location may include a different subsection of the county.

Alternatively or additionally the method may include requesting the watering restriction for the location from a computing device wherein an entity that issues the watering restriction for the location communicates with the computing device to provide the watering restriction. The computing device may itself communicate with various administrative servers or personnel associated with different geopolitical boundaries aggregate the various information then distribute that information as requested or automatically. Alternatively or additionally the computing device may maintain a database of geographic information associated with one or more control systems e.g. sprinkler systems which it may service. Alternatively or additionally the computing device may correspond with one or more entities associated with one or more geopolitical boundaries and determine when to send updates to particular control systems which may identifiable using an IP address responsive to updates in restrictions e.g. water electric or other restrictions imposed upon that geopolitical boundary .

Alternatively or additionally the method may include receiving weather information for the location and transmitting the weather information to the sprinkler controller. The sprinkler controller may respond to the weather information by adjusting a sprinkling schedule for the property. The weather information may include current weather information as well as future predicted weather and temperature information. For example if rain and cooler temperatures are expected the system may delay further watering even though it may otherwise water at that time.

Alternatively or additionally the method may include receiving a soil moisture content reading from a different sprinkler controller associated with a different property within the location determining that a distance from the different property to the property falls within a threshold and transmitting to the sprinkler controller the soil moisture content reading from the different sprinkler controller. The sprinkler controller may respond to the soil moisture content reading by adjusting a sprinkling schedule for the property. Additionally adjusting the sprinkling schedule for the property may include comparing a soil type for the property and a soil type for the different property a result of the comparing may then impact the sprinkling schedule for the property. Furthermore the soil type for the property or the soil type for the different property may include at least one of a percolation rate a precipitation rate and an infiltration rate. The soil types may be derived from geographic mapping data using a geopolitical boundary such as a county e.g. GIS soil type mapping data . The soil types may then be associated with different geographic addresses and utilized in the sprinkling control system either locally or at a remote unit such as a server. This information may also be included in a database record associated with the particular geographic location.

Another method may include receiving at a sprinkler controller a watering restriction for a location the sprinkler controller associated with a property within the location and adjusting in response to the watering restriction a sprinkling schedule for the property. This control may be provided from a centralized location allowing the control for the sprinkler at each individual home to be much less expensive. Thus a sophisticated sprinkler control system may be provided to many homes with a small incremental cost by centralizing the control function for the sprinkler system at a network connected e.g. internet controller providing for smart phone tablet web page control and minimizing the end unit processing power. For example the sprinkler controller may simply be a single application specific integrated circuit ASIC controller or even more simply a logic circuit with non volatile periodically updated memory with all of the maintenance interface and control functions being centralized in a controller. In this manner the incremental cost of the individual sprinkler control system may be minimized.

The method may also include adjusting a different sprinkling schedule for different zones of the property. For example each sprinkler may be configured to triangulate its position within the property using Bluetooth wireless global positioning system GPS manual and or other positioning techniques. The outline of the plot on the user s location may be obtained from for example geographic information system GIS data. The outline plot of the user s lot may be displayed to the user with the approximate location of the user s home the determined location of each of the sprinklers and the user or system may determine the sprinkler schedule based on an individualized basis. For example the schedule for the location watering the flower beds may be different from the locations watering the grass which may be different further than the locations watering the vegetable garden. Alternatively or additionally the sprinklers along the front walk sidewalk and driveway may be different from those sprinklers less likely to impact a user s daily activities. Additionally there may be within the zone of the property any number of sensors e.g. a soil moisture sensor that detects various environmental conditions such as soil moisture content of soil within the zone of the property. The sprinkler controller may adjust the sprinkling schedule for the zone of the property in response to a combination of the watering restriction and the soil moisture content of the soil within the zone of the property.

Alternatively or additionally the method may include transmitting to a user device the sprinkling schedule for the property receiving from the user device a request to adjust the sprinkling schedule for the property and adjusting in response to the request the sprinkling schedule for the property. For example a user may be provided with a user interface for controlling a sprinkler system. The interface may show the outlines of the property. The user may be able to walk around the property and geographically mark individual sprinklers using the GPS triangulation function of a home touchscreen controller e.g. a smartphone tablet or mobile computing device . Alternatively or additionally the user may be able to associate these geographic locations with different types of locations such as lawn flower garden vegetable garden newly planted grass grass driveway and or sidewalk. The user may tap on certain sprinklers or locations within the property and adjust the sprinklers in that location that and other locations or the entire property.

Alternatively or additionally the method may include transmitting to a user device an alert associated with the sprinkling schedule for the property. For example one alert may be that the sprinkler system is about to go off in five minutes. The alert may be associated with the geographic location of the user s smart phone. For example where the user is determined to be in the sprinkler zone the sprinkler may alert the user that the sprinkler is about to go off. Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler system may automatically shut off as it determines that the user is approaching an active sprinkler and then reactivate as the user leaves the location. This system may also be used on commercial properties such as golf courses and coupled to smart phone applications as well as transport systems such as golf carts or golf bags. As the user moves about the property the sprinkler system is interrupted and then reset to its original program as the individual moves about the property.

Alternatively or additionally a method may include receiving by a computing device weather prediction information associated with a property updating in response to the weather prediction information a sprinkling schedule for a sprinkler system associated with the property receiving after a time period updated weather prediction information for the property and updating the sprinkling schedule based on a comparison between the sprinkling schedule and the weather prediction information over the time period. For example if rain is predicted on Monday Wednesday and Thursday the sprinkler system may have one setting. As time passes and it is determined that it in fact did not rain on Monday or Wednesday but that it did rain on Thursday and is expected to rain again on Friday and Saturday the sprinkling schedule is dynamically adjusted and updated as the weather information changes.

Alternatively or additionally the comparison may include determining that the sprinkling schedule was adjusted to compensate for the weather prediction information. Additionally the updated weather prediction information may indicate that actual weather was different than predicted weather. In this manner the watering system may provide optimal watering in a dynamic manner as predictions change come true and are proved false.

The preceding presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosure. The summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure. It is neither intended to identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor to delineate the scope of the disclosure. The summary merely presents some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the description below.

In the following description of various illustrative embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which aspects of the disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

There may be one line originating from the central office and it may be split a number of times to distribute the signal to multiple premises in the vicinity which may be many miles of the central office . The lines may include components not illustrated such as splitters filters amplifiers etc. to help convey the signal clearly but in general each split introduces a bit of signal degradation. Portions of the lines may also be implemented with fiber optic cable while other portions may be implemented with coaxial cable other lines or wireless communication paths. By running fiber optic cable along some portions for example signal degradation in those portions may be significantly minimized allowing a single central office to reach even farther with its network of lines than before.

The central office may include a modem termination system MTS such as a cable modem termination system CMTS which may be a computing device configured to manage communications between devices on the network of lines and backend devices such as servers to be discussed further below . The MTS may be as specified in a standard such as the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS standard published by Cable Television Laboratories Inc. a.k.a. CableLabs or it may be a similar or modified device instead. The MTS may be configured to place data on one or more downstream frequencies to be received by modems at the multiple premises and to receive upstream communications from those modems on one or more upstream frequencies. The central office may also include one or more network interfaces which can permit the central office to communicate with various other external networks . These networks may include for example networks of Internet devices telephone networks cellular telephone networks fiber optic networks local wireless networks e.g. WiMAX satellite networks and any other desired network and the network interface may include the corresponding circuitry needed to communicate on the network and to other devices on the network such as a cellular telephone network and its corresponding cell phones.

As noted above the central office may include a variety of servers that may be configured to perform various functions. For example the central office may include a push notification server . The push notification server may generate push notifications to deliver data or commands to the multiple premises in the network or more specifically to the devices in the multiple premises that are configured to detect such notifications . The central office may also include a content server . The content server may be one or more computing devices that are configured to provide content to users in the homes. This content may be for example video on demand movies television programs songs text listings etc. The content server may include software to validate user identities and entitlements locate and retrieve requested content encrypt the content and initiate delivery e.g. streaming of the content to the requesting user or device.

The central office may also include one or more application servers . An application server may be a computing device configured to offer any desired service and may run various languages and operating systems e.g. servlets and JSP pages running on Tomcat MySQL OSX BSD Ubuntu Redhat HTML5 JavaScript AJAX and COMET . For example an application server may be responsible for collecting television program listings information and generating a data download for electronic program guide listings. Another application server may be responsible for monitoring user viewing habits and collecting that information for use in selecting advertisements. Another application server may be responsible for formatting and inserting advertisements in a video stream being transmitted to the multiple premises . And as will be discussed in greater detail below another application server may be responsible for sending receiving or processing data related to a sprinkler system.

The central office may include one or more sprinkler controllers . A sprinkler controller may be a computing device configured to interface with or control one or more sprinkler control systems e.g. a control server or home appliance control server .

The network may be connected to one or more computing devices associated with one or more geopolitical entities e.g. a city county state borough municipality territory self governing entity township incorporated area administrative division district village neighborhood or any portion of the foregoing .

An example premise may include a modem which may include transmitters and receivers used to communicate on the lines and with the central office . The modem may be for example a coaxial cable modem for coaxial cable lines a fiber interface node for fiber optic lines or any other desired modem device. The modem may be connected to or be a part of a gateway interface device . The gateway interface device may be a computing device that communicates with the modem to allow one or more other devices in the home to communicate with the central office and other devices beyond the central office. The gateway may be a set top box STB digital video recorder DVR computer server or any other desired computing device. The gateway may also include not shown local network interfaces to provide communication signals to devices in the home such as televisions additional STBs personal computers laptop computers wireless devices wireless laptops and netbooks mobile phones mobile televisions personal digital assistants PDA etc. a sprinkler control system and any other desired devices. Examples of the local network interfaces include Multimedia Over Coax Alliance MoCA interfaces Ethernet interfaces universal serial bus USB interfaces wireless interfaces e.g. IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth interfaces and others.

The computing device may be connected to a sprinkler control system through a network . Alternatively or additionally the computing device may be directly connected to the sprinkler control system e.g. through a wired or wireless connection .

A property may have an associated sprinkler system . In one embodiment the sprinkler system may be similar to or the same as the sprinkler control system described in connection with . A sprinkler system may be associated with an entire property such as a lot according to a county plat map. In another example a sprinkler system may be associated with more than one property such as several lots with several homes. In a different example a sprinkler system may be associated with only a part of a property. There may be more than one sprinkler system associated with a property such as if a property is divided into zones with one sprinkler system associated with each zone. Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler system may cover multiple zones of a property each zone with its own sprinkler schedule. Zones will be discussed in further detail below. Alternatively or additionally a property or part thereof may be associated with more than one sprinkler system .

A sprinkler system may be configured to deliver water to a property using one or more sprinkler valves . For example a sprinkler system may be connected to a well a county irrigation system or a home s water supply and deliver that water to a property. A sprinkler system may deliver potable water non potable water or some combination. For example the sprinkler system may utilize well water for some applications and some water restrictions and municipality provided water for other applications and or water restriction conditions. In another example the sprinkler system may deliver another liquid such as a chemical. For example different lawn treatment applications may be provided in the sprinkler system. The system may have certain canisters installed that deliver predetermined amounts of fertilizer pesticides nitrogen grub treatments fungicides and or other chemicals to the soil grass flower garden vegetable garden starter lawn etc. For example the sprinkler system may deliver fertilizer pesticide weed killer or some other chemical based on either a solid or liquid concentrate that may then be dissolved in water. These additions may be provided in canisters that may be periodically updated replaced and or refilled. In one embodiment a sprinkler system may be configured to simultaneously deliver water and one or more other chemicals. Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler system may only deliver one liquid at a time. In certain embodiments the sprinkler system may detect the presence of people and pets and delay the application of a chemical treatment. The sprinkler system may also report shortages in any of the chemicals to an upstream location and indicate the need for maintenance. For example where the sprinkler system determines that more fertilizer is required it may indicate to the server that a service representative needs to place a call e mail and or text to the home and or account to schedule an appointment.

The water additive is not necessarily limited to a sprinkler system but may also apply to any water treatment system such as a water softener or water neutralizer. For example where the water softener needs salt or the water neutralizer needs maintenance this may also be communicated to the centralized system so that service may be scheduled.

The sprinkler system may be associated with a sprinkler controller . In one embodiment the sprinkler controller may be similar to or the same computing device described in connection with . For example the sprinkler controller may include a display one or more buttons a touch interface a wired or wireless remote control a keyboard a mouse or another interface device. The sprinkler controller may include a processor that enables it to perform many or all of the functions described herein.

Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler controller may also be a separate module hung on a hose. In other words the sprinkler controller need not be a module in a user s home. The sprinkler controller may be a battery powered module hooked to a security system via Bluetooth wireless wifi the scientific 4.33 Mhz band for low power operation or other similar connections.

Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may include a low cost configuration with minimal interface where most of the processing and control is conducted in the server and wirelessly connected devices such as a smart phone. For example referring back to a central office may include a home appliance control server e.g. sprinkler controller that performs most of the processing and control of the sprinkler system for a premise

In one embodiment a home appliance control server may include or function as a sprinkler controller . That is the sprinkler controller may perform many or all of the functions described herein as being performed by the sprinkler controller . The sprinkler controller may receive command requests from and transmit control commands to the sprinkler control system over the network . In one embodiment an individual home or property sprinkler system may include a more basic sprinkler controller e.g. an ASIC that simply responds to commands sent to it by the sprinkler controller . In one embodiment the sprinkler controller may communicate directly with the sprinkler controller . For example the sprinkler controller may address transmissions using an identifier e.g. headend assigned control number IP address or MAC address of the sprinkler controller . In this manner the sprinkler controller may reduce the need for complicated hardware in the local sprinkler controller because the sprinkler controller performs much of the processing and control logic that otherwise may be done by a local sprinkler controller . The more basic sprinkler controller may thereby allow a property to receive the benefit of automated home sprinkler control without necessitating the purchase and installation of a high cost system.

Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may send out commands that a sprinkler controller filters. A sprinkler controller may therefore be a lower cost unit e.g. with less powerful or cheaper hardware because the sprinkler controller at the central office may perform some or all of the processing needs for controlling the sprinkler system. In one embodiment a sprinkler controller may receive all broadcast commands from a sprinkler controller but only act on those that apply. For example a sprinkler controller may broadcast a command to all sprinkler controllers connected to the sprinkler controller but the command may only apply to sprinkler controllers located in a certain part of a county. The sprinkler controller may therefore receive all the commands broadcast by the sprinkler controller but filter those that do not apply only acting on those that apply to the part of the county that the sprinkler controller is located in.

The sprinkler controller also may interface with a security system. For example a security system may include a home touchscreen controller that allows a user to interface with a security system. A further discussion of different user interfaces for interfacing with the sprinkler system will follow below.

A sprinkler controller may display information related to one or more features of the sprinkler system . For example the display may show a sprinkling schedule. The sprinkler controller may also allow input for interacting with a feature of the sprinkler controller . Interaction with a sprinkler controller may result in adjusting a sprinkling schedule for an associated property.

The sprinkler controller may track water usage rates. For example a sprinkler controller may track the amount of water used over a period of time such as a day week month year or the life of the system. In another example a sprinkler controller may display maximum and minimum usage rates and times. A sprinkler controller may also track water cost rates. For example in some places water at certain times of the day or year cost more than water at other times of the day or year. A sprinkler controller may provide an overlay or other method for comparing water usage with water cost. Additionally the sprinkler system may schedule sprinkling to minimize water cost and comply with local government restrictions.

In one embodiment a sprinkler controller may adjust a sprinkler schedule in order to maximize cost savings. For example the sprinkler controller may detect that the sprinkler system is watering the lawn at the time of day when the water cost rates are highest. The sprinkler controller may determine that by adjusting the sprinkler schedule the user may experience a decrease in water cost rates. The sprinkler controller may automatically make an adjustment or may prompt a user to make a manual adjustment.

The sprinkler controller may track water usage rates for the sprinkler system as a whole or for individual parts of the sprinkler system such as individual zones or individual sprinkler valves . The sprinkler controller may use water usage rates to detect maintenance needs for the sprinkler system . For example if an individual sprinkler valve is broken it may use water at an increased rate. For example the sprinkler valve may be cracked or have had its head cut off by a lawnmower. There may be some other problem with the sprinkler valve . Whatever the problem if the sprinkler valve uses water at an increased rate the sprinkler controller may detect that sprinkler valve s water usage rate is higher than normal.

The sprinkler controller may detect that sprinkler valve s water usage rate is higher than normal by tracking average water usage rates for individual sprinkler valves over a period of time comparing new readings with historical values. Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may compare individual sprinkler valve water usage rates against each other. For example if a sprinkler system includes ten similar individual sprinkler valves then comparing their usage rates against each other may allow a sprinkler controller to detect if one or more individual sprinkler valves is not operating correctly.

Note that in some embodiments of the sprinkler system there may be different types of sprinkler valves . For example one sprinkler valve may be a bubbler not shown while a different sprinkler valve may be a rotating head not shown . If different sprinkler valves are different types it may not be helpful in determining maintenance issues to compare water usage rates between them.

Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler controller may compare water usage rates between different types of sprinkler valves to determine other helpful information in setting or adjusting a sprinkler schedule. For example if a certain plant needs a certain amount of water per day the sprinkler controller may use the water usage rates to ensure that the sprinkler schedule is properly adjusted so that plant receives sufficient water. For example a certain lilac bush may consume one gallon of water per day. The sprinkler controller may determine that a bubbler sprinkler valve may take one hour to deliver one gallon of water while a rotating head valve may take two hours to deliver one gallon of water. The sprinkler controller may deliver water for one or two hours depending on if the sprinkler valve placed near the certain lilac bush is a bubbler or a rotating head

Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may adjust water usage in all or part of the sprinkler system . For example the sprinkler controller may adjust the water flow rate. For example the water flow may be restricted at the source limiting the amount of water going to the individual sprinkler valves . For example if normal usage is 10 gallons per minute the sprinkler controller may restrict the water flow rate to 8 gallons per minute. Adjusting the water flow rate may result in less water pressure at each of the valves but less water usage overall. In another example the sprinkler controller may increase water flow to increase water pressure at each of the sprinkler valves . Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may adjust water flow at only a part of the sprinkler system such as at certain valves. For example the sprinkler controller may reduce or turn off water flow to certain sprinkler valves while potentially increasing or maintaining water flow to one or more other sprinkler valves .

Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler system may include multiple types of sprinkler valves that have overlapping delivery locations. The sprinkler controller may track the water delivery rates of the different valves to ensure that the vegetation on the property is properly watered.

In order to ensure proper watering a sprinkler system may include one or more zones. For example one sprinkler system may use the same sprinkling schedule for all of the sprinkler valves in the system. In that example there may be effectively one zone. In a different sprinkler system there may be two three or more zones. Each zone may have a different sprinkling schedule.

Different sprinkler valves within the same zone may water at different rates. This may be based on the placement of the sprinkler valve . For example one sprinkler valve may be at the top of a hill where a second sprinkler valve may be at the bottom of the hill. The sprinkler valve at the top of the hill may water less than the sprinkler valve at the bottom of the hill to compensate for the water running down the hill. Both sprinkler valves may be in the same zone despite having different watering rates.

A sprinkling profile may be associated with a watering zone. Each sprinkling profile may vary based on a number of factors. For example different factors may include the size of the zone the type of vegetation in the zone the terrain of the zone such as its slope the soil type of the zone the amount of sunshine or shade in the zone the ambient temperature in the zone the amount of wildlife in the zone or another factor. Any factor may be related to a zone that is only a part of a property or may be related to the property as a whole. Any zone factor may also be applied to a profile as a whole and vice versa.

The criteria for a watering profile may be predetermined. For example a sprinkler controller may come pre programmed with one or more profiles that contain different watering schedules based on different factors.

For example a system may come with several different profiles that allow the user to select a type of vegetation. Each profile may include information such as a vegetation type and a watering amount. A watering profile may include additional criteria as well.

For example a property may be located within a particular zip code. A sprinkler controller may adjust a sprinkler profile based on information related to that zip code. Every zone within the property may be within the same zip code and therefore all the profiles or zones controlled by the controller may be adjusted for the same zip code related factors.

In another example a property may be divided such as by a zip code county line city line state or even country border. A sprinkler controller may adjust a watering profile based on the different limitations restrictions or even geographic differences between the different locations or demarcations. For example one county may include one set of watering restrictions and a second county may impose a different set of watering restrictions. The sprinkler controller may adjust the watering schedules for the different parts of the property based on the restrictions imposed by the different counties.

A location e.g. a county may impose watering restrictions. A watering restriction may affect the total amount of water a property may use over a period of time e.g. day week month or specific times that property may use water e.g. only allow watering from 6 am 10 am . A watering restriction may be for an entire location e.g. county wide or may be different based on a property s location e.g. certain part of a county certain address etc. . A watering restriction may affect water price e.g. first 100 gallons per week cost 0.10 per gallon every gallon after that costs 0.15 per gallon . A watering restriction may restrict certain water uses e.g. may only use water for watering lawn but not gardens or flower beds .

An example watering restriction may be an odd numbered street address can water for a maximum of 15 minutes on Thursdays and Sundays from 7 00 pm to 4 00 am. The same watering restriction may allow an even numbered street address to water for a maximum of 15 minutes on Wednesdays and Saturdays from 7 00 pm to 4 00 am. The same watering restriction may not allow any watering on Mondays or Fridays but may allow any address to water on Tuesdays for a maximum of 10 minutes from 6 00 pm to 5 00 am. Of course the given restrictions are only exemplary any number of combinations of factors may be used for restricting water use.

A watering restriction may be based on a property s location. For example a county restriction may be based on address location within the county and or zones within the county. The sprinkler controller may overlay the address of the user which a service provider may maintain at another location such as a central hub or server as well as longitude latitude to determine proper zones within the county. The sprinkler controller may also apply address such as even or odd restrictions e.g. Sat or Sun or even different times within those days.

A sprinkler controller may interface with a service provider server . A service provider may provide a centralized administration with access to the logic thresholds and other control options. These options can be downloaded into sprinkler controllers locally or managed at a head end e.g. server . A server may provide updates as to the logic with respect to the operation of the sprinkler controllers or download additional firmware. A server may modify the best practices or watering profiles with respect to the sprinkler controllers based on a headend location and feedback from an administrator.

The sprinkler controller may adjust a sprinkler schedule based on a watering restriction. In one embodiment a server may receive a watering restriction for a location. For example a server may receive a watering restriction from a county. The watering restriction may cover an entire county or a part of a county. Alternatively or additionally the watering restriction may cover an area larger than a single county such as multiple counties or an entire state or country. Alternatively or additionally the watering restriction may be smaller than a single county such as a subsection of a county or a combination of subsections of multiple counties.

The server may detect that a sprinkler controller is associated with a property within the county. The server may send the watering restriction to the sprinkler controller .

The sprinkler controller may respond to the watering restriction by adjusting a sprinkling schedule for the property. Alternatively or additionally the server may directly transmit a command to the sprinkler controller to adjust the sprinkler schedule directly.

The sprinkler controller may transmit a confirmation that the sprinkler schedule was adjusted to conform with the watering restriction. For example the sprinkler controller may transmit a confirmation to the server or may transmit a confirmation directly to the county or another entity issuing the watering restriction. In one embodiment the entity issuing the watering restriction may charge a lower water rate for the property in response to the confirmation.

The server may receive a different watering restriction for a different location e.g. a different part of the county . The server may detect that a different sprinkler controller is associated with a different property within the different location. The server may transmit to the different sprinkler controller the different watering restriction. In one embodiment the location may include a subsection of a county and the different location includes a different subsection of the county.

Alternatively or additionally server may request the watering restriction for the location from a different computing device. For example a county or other geopolitical entity may provide a watering restriction to a computing device that the server communicates with to obtain the watering restriction.

For example a county may have a county portal that may access a computing device . A portal may allow a county or city to enter or otherwise provide watering information.

A service provider may provide a county or other entity with a software development kit SDK that allows the entity to provide watering restrictions in a unified format.

Alternatively or additionally a county may use an application programming interface API for providing data e.g. watering restrictions . For example a service provider may publicize a standardized data format for providing sprinkler restriction information from a county to a service provider. The data may come in as an SMS message a webpage an email JSON XML or some other standardized format. The data may be a new standardized format that may be automatically read by a service provider s system. The data may be parsed filtered and or analyzed to determine that the parameters were within the expected parameters then input into a service provider s system once it met the quality control checks.

Each county may have data in a different place system or format. The SDK may not be completely plug and play. The SDK may be a system that the county may need to hook their data up to. A service provider may provide instructions as necessary then let the city or county know that the service provider may give them assistance. The county may need to hook data up to what the service provider may provide in the SDK. Then the county may start providing the data and the service provider may interface with the data.

In another example a service provider may pull the data from a county webpage or the county may enter it into the service provider s system directly or both.

An SDK may be used to create a service that a service provider may then call. The county may hook the county data up to the service then a service provider may call that service to get that data. Alternatively or additionally data may be formatted differently between different counties.

A county portal may also provide other information. For example a county portal may include weather information. The weather information may be something that a service provider itself maintains or may be pulled directly from a county information page. For example if the county posts specific weather information on a web page the server may have an interface for visiting that web page and pulling down the county specific rain information. The rain information may be downloaded into this system then pushed out to all of the sprinkler controllers that are connected to a service provider system.

A server may allow a county to push out water restrictions at a micro level. The county may specify all sprinkler systems to be on connected sprinkler controllers so that the county may micromanage the sprinkler systems so as to not overtax the water that the county provides. The sprinkler systems may automatically handle more complex water restrictions and deliver the proper watering to the county.

A county may be motivated to install systems and provide data because doing so may save them a lot of water. A county may impose water restrictions but a service provider and a sprinkler system may ensure that those restrictions are followed.

In one example a county may have a motivation to cooperate because if the county s water levels drop below some critical environmental factor the county may need to push out and enforce water restrictions. The sprinkler system may give a county more control or make it easier to ensure compliance with a watering restriction.

In one example embodiment the county may control watering levels almost directly. The county may change the values e.g. watering restrictions that the county pushes out. Each sprinkler system may be set up to automatically change a sprinkling schedule based on whatever numbers the county provides to the sprinkler system . The sprinkler system may be more effective and cheaper than the county sending a letter to a property owner every three weeks with the latest summer county water restrictions.

Returning to a discussion of potential zones for a property a zone may be of a different size. One zone may be a small patch of grass sideyard garden flower bed or some other area. Another zone may include an entire property a field a forest or some other area. There may be different zones of different sizes or different zones of the same size.

A zone may have different types of vegetation. There may be more than one type of vegetation within a zone or multiple zones with the same type of vegetation. In one embodiment the sprinkler system may apply different criteria for watering different vegetation types. For example a lawn sprinkler system may have a set of criteria for watering different types of lawn. The lawn may include zoysia grass. The sprinkler system may have one zone that is configured to optimally water zoysia grass. There may be other sprinkler valves connected to a garden that is proximate to a house. The garden sprinkler valves may be associated with a different zone associated with a different profile. In another example there may be different zones for watering respectively a garden bluegrass and zoysia grass.

In another example a zone may include multiple types of vegetation within one zone. For example a single zone may cover bluegrass zoysia grass and a garden. Thus the zones and sprinkler controller may be configured in any number of different ways.

A zone may have a differing amount of sunshine or shade. For example a zone may include a tree that shades part of the zone. In another example a zone may be shaded by a house or other structure such as a deck. Another zone may be exposed to sunshine that is filtered such as through a sunroof or greenhouse. Another zone may be exposed to direct sunlight. Direct sunlight may have different intensities such as if a zone is on an eastern part of a zone compared to the northern part of a zone. Therefore a sprinkler controller may adjust a sprinkling schedule based on the differing amounts of sunshine or shade within a zone.

A zone may have a different ambient temperature. For example a zone may be next to or include a piece of pavement such as concrete or asphalt which may trap heat affecting the temperature in the zone. In another example a zone may be next to a pond or swimming pool which may help keep the air in that zone more temperate. In another example a zone may have a combination of elements within the zone such as concrete next to a swimming pool. Therefore the sprinkler controller may adjust a sprinkling schedule based on the ambient temperature within the zone or within parts of the zone.

A zone may have a different amount of wildlife. For example one zone may always attract local birds such as hummingbirds or bald eagles. Those zones may have different watering needs such as if the wildlife drink the water affecting the amount of water that reaches the vegetation. In another example a zone may attract deer such as if there is a garden or prairie grass in the zone. The deer may wish to drink water cool off in the sprinklers or even hide from predators in the sun s glare reflected off the sprinklers spray. In another example a dog cat or other domesticated animal or pet may prefer a certain section of lawn a particular tree or a fire hydrant in a zone to urinate or excrete waste. In short the interest of animal life in a zone may have an effect on the growth of the vegetation within a zone.

A sprinkler controller may respond to the interest of animal life in a zone by adjusting a sprinkling schedule according to the needs of the vegetation within the zone. For example a sprinkler controller may water more to compensate for animals drinking the water from the sprinkler valves . Additionally a sprinkler controller may water more to dilute animal waste therefore lessening its effects on grass. Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler controller may water less to discourage animals or insects from coming to that zone to reap the benefits of the water.

A zone may have different types of terrain. For example one zone may include a large hill. Another zone may surround a pond or other landscaping feature. A different zone may include rocks while another zone may be more sandy. A sprinkler controller may adjust a sprinkling schedule in response to a different type of terrain.

Relatedly a zone may have different soil types. For example one zone may have soft soil. Another may have extremely hard soil such as soil that has been hard packed by the sun. A different zone may have been regularly fertilized and tilled resulting in soft rich fertile soil.

A soil type may be measured by one or more different metrics. For example a metric for measuring soil type may include one or more of precipitation rate percolation rate and infiltration rate. One or more of these metrics may be measured in inches per hour.

For example a sprinkling system may irrigate a lawn where the water may run off the lawn into a gutter or into a low spot before the soil is wet through the root zone. This may be because the sprinkler system may deliver more water in a given amount of time than the soil can absorb. In other words the precipitation rate of the sprinklers the rate at which the sprinklers distribute water may be greater than the infiltration rate of the soil the rate at which the water infiltrates the soil. Another term for infiltration rate may be percolation rate the rate at which water percolates into the soil. Another measure may be the saturation coefficient which may measure how saturated the soil is with moisture.

There may be multiple methods for determining percolation and infiltration rates. For example the sprinkler system may be provided either with a periodic test of percolation rate or a moisture sensor that measures percolation rate which may also be fed from the sprinkler system automatically such that a dynamic percolation rate may be determined. For example if soil is highly moist or alternatively is hard packed e.g. by the sun the percolation rate may be substantially less than when soil is at normal moisture. A moisture sensor may also include a percolation sensor that gathers percolation data based on predicted percolation soil type location or environmental conditions at the time. A moisture sensor may also detect root depth as well as soil saturation through the root zone. For example a sensor may detect soil saturation above the base of the roots at the base of the roots or below the base of the roots.

In one embodiment there may be a moisture sensor on a garden a moisture sensor on a backyard which may get southern sun a moisture sensor on a sideyard which may be shaded and a moisture sensor on a front yard which may get northern sun. Each area may have one or more different moisture sensors with potentially different moisture content. An area may be associated with a zone as discussed above.

In one approach to solve the problem of water runoff where the precipitation rate is greater than the infiltration rate the sprinkler system may include one or more sensors e.g. moisture sensor that detect when water starts to run off and automatically shut off the sprinkler valves in response to detecting that the water is running off. Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler system may include one or more moisture sensors to detect that the precipitation rate is higher than the infiltration rate. The sprinkler controller may pause water delivery for a time then start water delivery again until there is run off again. The sprinkler controller may continue the run stop wait run cycle until the soil is saturated through the root zone. In other words this may be described as cycling the sprinklers.

In one example a technician or user may test different zones in a location to determine permeability grass type type of area being watered such as garden Bermuda grass blue grass flower beds etc. The technician may make a determination as to the permeability of the ground in a particular zone. This information can be coded into the sprinkler controller and an optimum watering profile can be applied to the particular zone based on the measurements or based on past experience.

A service provider may establish test lawns that have certain sensors or are periodically tested by technicians so as to deliver the optimal level of watering or other control to achieve the healthiest and best lawns possible within the watering constraints or regulations currently being applied. A test lawn may be a customer s property or may be a lawn or area maintained at a service provider owned location.

A watering profile may use ground permeability information to water an area detect ground moisture levels and water again in a feedback loop until an optimum watering condition is obtained. For example the sprinkler controller may determine that rather than water for 60 minutes straight it may be more effective to water for 30 minutes wait 60 minutes then water again for 30 minutes. Such an approach may maximize watering and minimize runoff within a particular zone depending on the permeability of the soil within that zone.

In a location with county or other watering restrictions in place the sprinkler controller may cycle the sprinkler valves in accordance with a total watering restriction to maximize the effect of the allowed water. For example if a county allows a property to water for 60 minutes per day the sprinkler system may water for 20 minutes then wait 30 minutes three times. Thus there may be a total of 60 minutes of watering with the additional benefit of minimizing or eliminating water runoff by cycling the sprinkler Additional details of how a sprinkler controller may comply with a watering restriction are described later.

In another approach to solve the problem of water runoff the sprinkler system may use a moisture sensor . For example instead of watering for a fixed time the sprinkler system may water until the saturation coefficient is reached as detected by a moisture sensor then stop watering. The sprinkler system may wait a period of time then water again until the saturation coefficient is reached again again as measured by moisture sensor . Thus the sprinkler system may cycle watering while avoiding oversaturation to maximize the benefit of watering.

Alternatively or additionally if within a particular area there is more or less drainage the sprinkler system may record past watering information such as the amount of runoff infiltration percolation saturation or some other measure to adjust a current or future sprinkling schedule.

Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may upload moisture data from one or more moisture sensors to a server . The server may be affiliated with a service provider a county or other entity or some other source.

The sprinkler controller may upload data according to a regular schedule such as hourly daily weekly or a different time period. Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may upload data in response to a manually entered user command to upload data.

Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may receive a request from a server requesting the moisture information for the property sprinkled by the sprinkler system or a part of the property. The server may request the data according to a regular schedule such as every ten minutes every hour every day or some other schedule. Alternatively or additionally the server may request the data manually or on an irregular or a one time basis.

In some configurations the sprinkler controller may not have a regular network connection. If the sprinkler controller attempts to upload information to a server and there is not an available network connection the sprinkler controller may store the information for later upload. In another example if there is a connection but it is weak or for some other reason the sprinkler controller fails to properly upload the information the sprinkler controller may store the information for later upload. In some embodiments the data may be stored for a finite period of time. For example a sprinkler controller may only upload moisture information that is a certain age or less such as the most recent 24 or 48 hours.

Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may be connected to a network directly or may be connected to a network indirectly through a network hub . For example the network hub may include a switch router or gateway.

In one embodiment the sprinkler system may eliminate the need for sensor hardware such as moisture sensors or rainfall sensors . In one example a county or other weather database may provide actual rainfall percentages for a particular area so a sprinkler controller in that area may not need a moisture sensor which may be expensive in its own sprinkler system .

In another example a potential use for uploaded moisture information may include the server extrapolating the moisture information for another area without its own moisture information. For example a county weather station may regularly receive from another source moisture information for all or some parts of a county such as from its own moisture sensors weather stations or from a weather service. In one example that information may sometimes be incomplete for one or more parts of a county such as if a moisture sensor failed or a weather station may not capture or transfer the moisture information. In one example the server may collect moisture information from individual controllers with associated moisture sensors. The server may use the collected or uploaded moisture information to replace or supplement its other moisture information.

In another example the server may always collect moisture information from each sprinkler controller and aggregate that information with moisture information received from other sources. In another example a service provider may collect moisture information from different individual sprinkler controllers with affiliated moisture sensors then sell the moisture information to other service providers to a county or other entity or some other entity. The service provider may use the collected moisture information for use in the service provider s own weather service or website.

A service provider may collect or maintain location information for a particular property. For example a service provider may collect or store a property s address longitude latitude GPS coordinate or other geographical identifying information about a property. A service provider may collect location information when the user signs up for service or at another time.

In the case of a service provider receiving moisture information from a sprinkler controller with associated moisture sensors the service provider may also receive location information affiliated with that sprinkler controller or even the individual moisture sensor that collected the moisture information. For example the location information may include GPS coordinates latitude and longitude or some other location information.

A service provider may use moisture information in combination with location information to map moisture to the geographic location such as the longitude and latitude. The service provider may determine other users within a certain distance of that user such as 100 feet 500 feet 1000 feet a quarter mile or some other distance. The service provider may extrapolate data to use for other users on various sides of the user whose home watering levels are currently being monitored by sprinkler systems . From another perspective a service provider may make a projection of the soil moisture content of a sensor free lawn based on adjacent lawns with sensors .

The service provider may use collected moisture information for sending out watering information logic or instructions to other sprinkler controllers than those that submitted the information. The service provider may also send out the collected moisture information directly to other sprinkler controllers . In one example a server may only transmit moisture information to sprinkler controllers without moisture sensors . Alternatively or additionally a server may optionally have a sprinkler controller to upload its own moisture information in order to receive moisture information collected from other sprinkler controllers .

Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler controller may receive moisture information directly from other sprinkler controllers . For example a sprinkler controller may connect wirelessly or over a wired connection with a sprinkler controller for another part of the same property or with a sprinkler controller for a next door or other neighboring property or a sprinkler controller for a different property and receive send or exchange moisture information.

A sprinkler controller may use moisture information collected by one or more other sprinkler controllers to determine its own watering schedule. For example if a first sprinkler controller associated with a first property does not have moisture sensors but a second sprinkler controller associated with a second property does have moisture sensors the first property neighboring the second property the first sprinkler controller may use moisture information collected by the second sprinkler controller for determining a watering schedule for the first property. In this way a property s sprinkler system may determine its sprinkling schedule using moisture information collected by its neighbor s moisture sensors .

A sprinkler controller may use weather information to adjust a sprinkler schedule. Different weather information may come from accessing a website for example weatherdata.com or another local weather station local to the user s home. For example if the user is close to an airport that has a weather station the sprinkler system may use data from the airport weather station. Or the sprinkler system may buy weather data from a database sort the database based on geographic location or based on longitude latitude using location information a service provider may already have for each user. A service provider may correlate the weather location information with the sprinkler controller s current location and download that information into the sprinkler controller which may operate the sprinklers based on that information.

The sprinkler system may accommodate forecasting or weather predictions. For example the sprinkler system may look at both the chance of precipitation and the amount of precipitation from a standardized database such as weather.com. Both may be variable. For example if the chance of precipitation is 50 for 6 inches of rain the sprinkler system may not water. In another example if the chance of precipitation is 90 for 3 inches of rain the sprinkler system may not water. In another example if the chance of precipitation is 95 for inch of rain the sprinkler system may still water. In summary both the overall chance of precipitation and the amount of rain can be adjustable and variable within ranges.

The logic can come down from a centralized station like weather.com. The logic can also come from more sophisticated sources such as exact rain reporting in the path of the storm in order to anticipate the rain that may fall in the near future in the storm s path. One embodiment may use a standardized weather prediction database to populate the information into the sprinkler controller .

The sprinkler controller may also include a set of logic for after the rain has passed and the precipitation percentage has dropped. For example there may have been predicted rain but no actual precipitation. In other words the prediction may have been false or incorrect. In that case the logic may reset the sprinkler controller either based on a soil moisture measure or based on another record of what actually happened during the day. The sprinkler controller may then increase watering the next day based on what actually happened the day before no precipitation instead of what was predicted to happen.

The sprinkler controller may perform maintenance based on weather forecast information. For example a weather forecast may indicate that the temperature for several days may include freezing conditions such as below 32 Fahrenheit. In such conditions sprinkler pipes may freeze and burst. The sprinkler controller may include automated controls from maintenance such as a built in blowout system that can send compressed air through the sprinkler pipes to clear the water out of them to prevent freezing in cold conditions. The sprinkler controller may automatically activate or run the blowout system when weather forecast information includes freezing conditions.

In another example the sprinkler system may include sensors that indicate when a part of the sprinkler system is damaged. For example a sprinkler valve may have a sensor that indicates when there is a crack or other defect in the sprinkler valve . The sprinkler controller may collect sensor information on a periodic basis or on a manual or as needed basis. For example if the weather forecast indicates that there is a heat wave such as extremely hot weather conditions the sprinkler controller may collect or analyze sensor information to detect if there is any damage to the sprinkler system such as if a sprinkler valve cracked due to extreme heat. Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler system may alert the user or otherwise wait for a prompt to run a maintenance cycle such as blowing out the pipes. In this way the sprinkler system can automatically detect and prevent damage to the sprinkler system by using the weather forecast.

A sprinkler system may also include one or more user interfaces . A user interface may be separate from the sprinkler controller which may include its own display. In one embodiment a user interface may include a website or mobile device application e.g. smartphone or tablet app . Alternatively or additionally a user interface may include an email or SMS message. Alternatively or additionally a user interface may include a mobile phone a cable box interface a home security device on a computer via a web interface that interacts with a service provider system or the local control system or another interface.

A user interface may allow a user to interact with the sprinkler system . For example the user interface may provide the user the ability to modify settings via the user interface .

The sprinkler system may be integrated with one or more other systems for a property. For example the interface for controlling the sprinkler system may be the same interface used for controlling other default options such as heating cooling security and other home related options.

The sprinkler system may generate or send user notifications. Notifications may be on a phone tablet computer or other device. Notifications or warnings may relate to certain irrigation related events such as new water restrictions freeze conditions when the user should blow out pipes in order to prevent them from freezing or any other types of suitable notification for the user.

The sprinkler system may also provide SMS messages phone alerts AMBER alerts email or another type of notification to users in high vulnerability areas. The notification may include guidance on what to do to remain safe. The fire department may also issue notifications to users informing users of what to do in different weather or soil moisture conditions.

In addition an application app may be provided on a user s phone that provides a graphical interface that shows current moisture levels of the soil and the different moisture levels of different zones. The app may look at predicted moisture levels based on watering v. actual moisture levels based on the user s home or a neighbor s home adjacent to the user s home. The app may allow the user to override or change certain parameters to increase or decrease watering based on those parameters. The app may allow the user to view service provider recommended watering based on predictions of upcoming weather events or past moisture events. The app may allow user to control user s own sprinkler schedule or to override a sprinkler schedule.

The app may indicate what settings violate a watering restriction e.g. county regulation . A user may be warned or even prevented from violating a watering restriction. Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler controller may allow a user to set a sprinkling schedule that violates a watering restriction. Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler controller may automatically report watering restriction violations to a county or other restriction issuing entity.

Additional support may be provided for a user who is experiencing problems. For example watering options or profiles may be modified remotely e.g. via server for a user based on questions or concerns regarding the current watering profiles or sprinkler schedules being provided.

The sprinkler system may be integrated into a security system database associated with fire and police call information. This information may provide location specific data for phone calls and security system information for the user. The current soil conditions and weather conditions in that location can be provided into that database.

The sprinkler system can also provide information to the fire dept. For example the sprinkler system may provide to the fire department information regarding extremely dry conditions in California. The sprinkler system may also provide a fire department with information regarding areas with a particularly high vulnerability to fires e.g. due to dry conditions .

Alternatively or additionally a sprinkler controller may be basic configured to perform basic functionality such as only to receive or store a sprinkling schedule from a centralized server . After receiving a sprinkling schedule from the server the sprinkler controller may operate the sprinkler valves in accordance with the sprinkling schedule received from the server . For example the sprinkler controller may simply be a single application specific integrated circuit ASIC controller or even more simply a logic circuit with non volatile periodically updated memory with all of the maintenance interface and control functions being centralized in the server. In this manner the incremental cost of the individual sprinkler control system may be minimized while a sophisticated sprinkler control system may be provided to many homes with a small incremental cost. In this embodiment the server may receive any or all of the information described herein e.g. weather information moisture information etc. as being sent to the sprinkler controller use the information for creating or adjusting a sprinkling schedule and send the sprinkling schedule to the sprinkler controller . A server created sprinkling schedule may be property specific e.g. linked to the individual sprinkler controller or may be applied to more than one property e.g. applied to all the homes on a block or a street . Alternatively or additionally a server created sprinkling schedule may implement zones for a specific property sending to a sprinkler controller a sprinkling schedule that waters specific zones in the property associated with the sprinkler controller .

In step the server may receive a watering restriction for a location. As discussed above the watering restriction may be issued by a governing entity associated with the location such as a county.

In step the server may determine if there is a property within the location. For example the server may check if there is a property within the county covered by the watering restriction received in step . If there is not a property within the location the method may end. As discussed above the location may be more specific than simply a county. For example if the watering restriction applies to properties with even street numbers the server may determine whether the property has an even street number. If there is a property the method continues to step .

Alternatively or additionally the server may skip the step of determining if there is a property within the location and simply transmit the watering restriction to one or more sprinkler controllers that the server has information for. Each sprinkler controller then may determine if the watering restriction is applicable to the property associated with that sprinkler controller. Alternatively or additionally there may be multiple filters for a watering restriction performed by one or more devices. For example a server may make an additional determination such as determining if a property is within a location such as a county and then the sprinkler controller performs an additional determination or check such as determining if there is an additional restriction on the watering restriction e.g. the watering restriction is applicable only to an even or odd street address .

In step the server may determine if the property has an associated sprinkler controller. If the property does not have an associated sprinkler controller the method may return to step to determine if there is an additional property within the location. If the property does have an associated sprinkler controller the method may continue to step .

In step the server may transmit the watering restriction to the sprinkler controller associated with the property. For example the server may transmit the county watering restriction to the property with an associated sprinkler controller the property located within the county.

After transmitting the watering restriction to the sprinkler controller associated with the property the method may return to step to determine if there is an additional property within the location.

In step the server may determine if a sprinkler controller needs updated weather information. If the sprinkler controller needs updated weather information then in step the server may check if the server has updated weather information. If the server has updated weather information in step the server may transmit the updated weather information to the sprinkler controller. If in step the server does not have updated weather information in step the server may receive updated weather information for the location. For example the server may receive updated weather information from a weather service a weather station another sprinkler controller nearby the property associated with the sprinkler controller needing updated weather information or another source. After receiving updated weather information the server in step may transmit the updated weather information to the sprinkler controller. The sprinkler controller may respond to the weather information by adjusting a sprinkling schedule for the property. After transmitting the updated weather information to the sprinkler controller the server may return to step .

If in step the sprinkler controller does not need updated weather information in step the server may determine if a sprinkler controller needs updated soil moisture information. For example as described above a sprinkler controller may not have an associated soil moisture sensor. The server may set a timer a flag or another indication that the sprinkler controller may need updated soil moisture information. Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may request updated soil moisture information. If the server does not need updated soil moisture information the server may go to step . If the sprinkler controller needs updated soil moisture information the server may go to step .

In step the server may check if the server has updated soil moisture information for the property associated with the sprinkler controller. For example the server may have information but the information may be stale or out of date.

In another example the server may have current information but not for the property associated with the sprinkler controller. In one embodiment the server may not have soil moisture information for the property associated with the sprinkler controller but may have soil moisture information for a property nearby the property associated with the sprinkler controller. The server may determine if the two properties are close enough to have a likelihood of similar soil moisture information. For example if the server has soil moisture information for a property next to the property associated with the sprinkler controller the server may determine that the soil moisture information is relevant to the sprinkler controller. By contrast if the server only has soil moisture information associated with for example a property a long distance away from the property associated with the sprinkler controller the server may determine that the soil moisture information is not relevant to the sprinkler controller. Alternatively or additionally the server may have soil moisture information for a region e.g. a county and may determine whether the property associated with the sprinkler controller is near or within the region.

If the server does not have updated soil moisture information it may in step receive an updated soil moisture content reading. For example the server may request and receive a soil moisture content reading from a different sprinkler controller associated with a different property within the location. The different property may be nearby the property associated with the sprinkler controller in need of updated soil moisture information. In another example the server may request updated soil moisture information from another source such as a county portal a weather database or another service.

If the server has updated soil moisture information in step or after the server receives updated soil moisture information in step the server may determine that a distance from the different property that the server received the soil moisture content reading from to the property falls within a threshold. In step the server may transmit to the sprinkler controller the soil moisture content reading from the different sprinkler controller.

The sprinkler controller may respond to the soil moisture content reading by adjusting a sprinkling schedule for the property. In one embodiment adjusting the sprinkling schedule for the property may include comparing a soil type for the property and a soil type for the different property. Alternatively or additionally a result of the comparison may impact the sprinkling schedule for the property. Alternatively or additionally the soil type for the property or the soil type for the different property may include at least one of a percolation rate a precipitation rate and an infiltration rate.

The server may after transmitting the updated soil moisture content information return to step . As mentioned earlier if the server in step determined that the sprinkler controller did not need updated soil moisture information the server may go to step .

In step the server may determine if the server needs updated watering restrictions. For example the server may have a timeline to follow for receiving update watering restrictions e.g. daily weekly monthly etc. . Alternatively or additionally the server may use another method for tracking whether it needs updated watering restrictions e.g. using a cookie that expires setting a timer using a tracking code that tracks when the last update was requested or received or another method . If the server determines that it does not need updated watering restrictions e.g. the server already has up to date watering restrictions the server returns to step . In one embodiment not shown if the server does not need updated watering restrictions the method ends.

If the server in step needs updated watering restrictions then in step the server requests updated watering restrictions for a location. For example the server may communicate with another server a county portal or another service or device to request updated watering restrictions for a location. In another example the server may request the watering restriction for the location from a different computing device. In another example the entity that issues the watering restriction for the location may communicate with the different computing device to provide the watering restriction. In step the server receives updated watering restrictions for a location. Alternatively or additionally the server may receive a notification that there is not an updated watering restriction available in which case the method may end or may return to step .

After receiving updated watering restrictions for a location the server in step determines if there are any properties within the location. For example the server may maintain or access a list of subscribers to a service provided by an entity maintaining the server e.g. a cable service provider home security provider internet service provider etc. . There may be associated with the subscriber an address for a property. If the server determines the property is not within the location e.g. the address is not within a county that the watering restriction is for the server may go to step . If the property is within the location e.g. the address is within a county that the watering restriction is for the server may continue to step .

In step the server may determine if the property has an associated sprinkler controller. For example the server may determine that there is a property that is within the location but without a sprinkler controller e.g. a cable subscriber lives in the county that issued the watering restriction but the cable subscriber does not have an automated sprinkling system or a sprinkler controller . The server therefore may go to step . If the server determines the property within the location has an associated sprinkler controller the server may go to step .

In step the server may transmit the watering restriction to the sprinkler controller. The sprinkler controller may transmit a confirmation that the sprinkler controller received the watering restriction.

The sprinkler controller may respond to the watering restriction by adjusting a sprinkling schedule for the property. The sprinkler controller may transmit confirmation that the sprinkler controller associated with the property responded to the watering restriction by adjusting the sprinkling schedule for the property. In step the server may receive confirmation that the sprinkler controller associated with the property responded to the watering restriction by adjusting the sprinkling schedule for the property. In step the server may transmit to an entity issuing the watering restriction the confirmation. In one embodiment the entity issuing the watering restriction may charge a lower water rate for the property in response to the confirmation.

In one example the location may include a county and the watering restriction may include a county specific watering restriction. For example the watering restriction may include a county wide watering restriction.

In step the server may determine if there is an additional property. For example if the watering restriction is a county wide watering restriction the server may check if there is an additional property within the county. If there is an additional property the server may return to step . If there is not an additional property e.g. the server already transmitted to all the sprinkler controllers associated with properties within the location the server may go to step .

In step the server may determine if there is an additional location. For example a county may issue watering restrictions for part of the county. Therefore the location may be the part of the county covered by the watering restriction. In other words the location may include a subsection of a county and a different location may include a different subsection of the county. The server may in step check if there is an additional watering restriction related to a different part of the county. If there is an additional location the server may return to step . If there is not an additional location the server may go to step .

After returning to step the server may in step receive a different watering restriction for a different location. The server may in steps detect that a different sprinkler controller is associated with a different property within the different location. The server may in step transmit to the different sprinkler controller the different watering restriction.

Returning to step the server may determine if the method is to end. For example the server may determine that all of the sprinkler controllers for all of the properties associated with the server are up to date and therefore the method may end or be paused temporarily. If the method is not to end the server may return to step .

In step a sprinkler controller may receive a watering restriction for a location. As discussed above the sprinkler controller may be associated with a property within the location. In one embodiment the sprinkler controller may do a check to determine if the watering restriction applies to the property. Alternatively the sprinkler controller may not do a verification check to determine if the watering restriction applies to the property.

In step a sprinkler controller may adjust a sprinkling schedule for a property in response to the watering restriction. As discussed above the sprinkling schedule may be adjusted in any number of ways. For example the sprinkler controller may adjust the sprinkling schedule to limit sprinkling to certain times of the day in accordance with the watering restriction.

In step the sprinkler controller may determine if an alert condition is present. For example the sprinkler controller may be set to alert the user every time the sprinkling schedule changes. For example the sprinkler controller may change the sprinkling schedule in response to receiving a new watering restriction.

In step the sprinkler controller may transmit to a user device an alert associated with the sprinkling schedule for the property. For example the sprinkler controller may send an alert to a user device that the sprinkling schedule changed in response to receiving a new watering restriction. After transmitting the alert to the user device the sprinkler controller may return to step .

If there is no alert in step the sprinkler controller may in step determine if a user device requested the sprinkling schedule for the property. In step the sprinkler controller may transmit the sprinkling schedule to the user device. The sprinkler controller may then return to step . If there is not a schedule request pending the sprinkler controller may go to step .

In step the sprinkler controller may determine if there is a watering restriction for the property or if a new watering restriction for the property is needed. For example the sprinkler controller may have a watering restriction but the watering restriction may be old. It may be desirable to avoid complying with an outdated or superceded watering restriction. If there is not a need for a new watering restriction the sprinkler controller may go to step . If there is a need for a new watering restriction in one embodiment the sprinkler controller may request from a server a new watering restriction. If the server determines a new watering restriction is available the server may transmit and in step the sprinkler controller receive a watering restriction for a location the sprinkler controller associated with a property within the location.

In step the sprinkler controller may determine if there are zones associated with the property. If there are not zones associated with the property in step the sprinkler controller may adjust in response to the watering restriction a sprinkling schedule for the property. After adjusting the sprinkling schedule in step the sprinkler controller may return to step .

If there are zones associated with the property in step the sprinkler controller may adjust in response to the watering restriction a sprinkling schedule for the zone of the property. In step the sprinkler controller may determine if there are additional zones on the property that have not adjusted their sprinkling schedules in response to the watering restriction. If there are additional zones the sprinkler controller may return to step . After returning to step the sprinkler controller may adjust a different sprinkling schedule for the property. In another example the sprinkling schedule may be associated with a zone of the property and the different sprinkling schedule may be associated with a different zone of the property.

If in step there are not additional zones e.g. the sprinkler controller adjusted all the zones the sprinkler controller may return to step .

Returning to step the sprinkler controller may determine if there is a need for updated weather information. If not the sprinkler controller may go to step . If there is a need for updated weather information the sprinkler controller may in step receive weather information for the property. The sprinkler controller may then go to steps where the sprinkler controller follows substantially the same steps as described above in connection with steps except the sprinkler controller may adjust the sprinkling schedule in response to the weather information.

In one exemplary embodiment of steps and a computing device e.g. a sprinkler controller may receive weather prediction information associated with a property. The computing device may update in response to the weather prediction information a sprinkling schedule for a sprinkler system associated with the property. The computing device may receive after a time period updated weather prediction information for the property. The computing device may update the sprinkling schedule based on a comparison between the sprinkling schedule and the weather prediction information over the time period. Alternatively or additionally the comparison may include determining that the sprinkling schedule was adjusted to compensate for the weather prediction information. Alternatively or additionally the updated weather prediction information may indicate that actual weather was different than predicted weather.

Returning to step the sprinkler controller may determine if there is a need for updated soil moisture information. If there is not a need then the sprinkler controller may go to step . If there is a need the sprinkler controller may request updated soil moisture information from a server a neighboring sprinkler controller a soil moisture sensor attached to the sprinkler system associated with the sprinkler controller or another source. In step the sprinkler controller may receive updated soil moisture content information. The sprinkler controller may then go to steps where the sprinkler controller follows substantially the same steps as described above in connection with steps except the sprinkler controller may adjust the sprinkling schedule in response to the soil moisture content information.

Returning to step the sprinkler controller may determine if there is a manual sprinkling adjustment request e.g. from a user device . For example a user may manually adjust the sprinkling schedule using a device or other interface e.g. sprinkler controller display and buttons smartphone tablet website etc. . In step the sprinkler controller may receive the sprinkling schedule adjustment request. The sprinkler controller may then go to steps where the sprinkler controller follows substantially the same steps as described above in connection with steps except the sprinkler controller may adjust the sprinkling schedule in response to the manual sprinkling schedule adjustment request.

If there is not a manual adjustment request the sprinkler controller in step may determine if the adjustment process is to end. For example the sprinkler controller may run through the logic every so many clock cycles. If the sufficient number of clock cycles have passed the logic may restart at step . Alternatively or additionally there may be some other trigger or reason to return to step . Otherwise the method may end.

In step the sprinkler controller may receive weather prediction information. For example the sprinkler controller may receive weather prediction information for a location e.g. a county .

In step the sprinkler controller may update its sprinkling schedule. For example the sprinkler controller may update the sprinkling schedule in response to the weather prediction information. For example the weather prediction information may include a prediction that there will be heavy rain in the location for the next two days. Therefore the sprinkler controller may adjust the sprinkler controller to not water for the next two days.

In step the sprinkler controller may receive updated weather prediction information. For example two days after receiving the weather prediction information in step the sprinkler controller may receive updated weather prediction information for the next two days days three and four after step . The updated weather prediction information may include actual weather information. For example the updated information may include what actually happened weather wise on the two days after the initial weather prediction information was received i.e. what happened on the days covered by the initial weather prediction information .

In step the sprinkler controller may determine if the weather prediction received in step was accurate. For example the weather prediction information received in step may have indicated that there would be heavy rain for the next two days and then there was heavy rain for two days. If the weather prediction was accurate the process may end.

The sprinkler controller may however determine the weather prediction received in step was not accurate. For example the weather prediction received in step may have indicated that there may be heavy rain over the next two days. But it may turn out that there was no rain over the predicted time period. If that is the case the sprinkler controller may return to step and update the sprinkling schedule. The sprinkler controller may compensate for the sprinkling schedule adjusted in response to the weather prediction information. For example if the sprinkling schedule was reduced because rain was predicted but no rain came the sprinkling schedule may be increased above its normal level for a day or two to compensate for the missed watering over the predicted time period.

In step the sprinkler controller may obtain information about the property. For example this may include latitude longitude what county the property is in watering restrictions from the county ground moisture levels weather forecasts or predictions and or recent actual weather conditions including rainfall levels.

In step the sprinkler controller may determine if there are any county watering restrictions in place. If so in step the sprinkler controller may determine if the current time falls within the allotted watering window. If the current time does not allow for watering then the sprinkler controller may not water the lawn at the current time.

If there are no watering restrictions in place in step or the watering restrictions do not prevent watering at the current time in step then in step the sprinkler controller may determine ground moisture levels. For example the sprinkler controller may use its own moisture sensors or receive information collected by a neighbor s moisture sensor.

If ground moisture levels are above a certain level for example over 25 mm of water per 100 mm of soil then the sprinkler controller may not water the lawn at the current time. If ground moisture levels are below a certain level for example below 25 mm of water per 100 mm of soil or if there sensor information is not available then the sprinkler controller may go to step .

In step the sprinkler controller may determine the projected county rainfall in the next 24 hours. For example the sprinkler controller may receive information from weather.com another website that provides weather information a local Doppler radar source or another source.

If projected county rainfall in the next 24 hours is above a certain level for example over one inch of rain and an 80 chance of rain or over 2 inches of rain and a 50 chance of rain or another combination then the sprinkler controller may not water the lawn at the current time. If projected county rainfall in the next 24 hours is below a certain level then the sprinkler controller may go to step .

In step the sprinkler controller may determine the actual rainfall levels in the past 24 hours. The sprinkler controller may receive actual rainfall levels from weather.com or another website that provides weather information. Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may receive information from a rainfall sensor such as a county rainfall sensor a rainfall sensor installed as part of a neighbor s sprinkler system or a rainfall sensor installed as part of the sprinkler controller s own sprinkler system. Alternatively or additionally the sprinkler controller may receive actual rainfall levels from another source.

If actual rainfall levels in the past 24 hours are above a certain level for example greater than or equal to three inches then the sprinkler controller may not water the lawn at the current time.

If actual rainfall levels in the past 24 hours are below a certain level for example less than or equal to one inch then the sprinkler controller may water the lawn for normal durations. When watering for normal durations the sprinkler controller may still use best practices e.g. split allotted watering time into intervals water different amounts based on grass or vegetation type water according to zone profiles e.g. garden lawn trees etc. .

If actual rainfall levels in the past 24 hours are within a certain range for example greater than one inch and less than three inches it may be desirable to water the lawn for a reduced amount. For example the sprinkler controller may water at a lower level by reducing the amount of time the water pressure used when watering thereby reducing overall water distributed reducing the number of intervals or another method. For example the sprinkler controller may water 50 of normal duration.

Aspects of the disclosure have been described in terms of illustrative embodiments thereof. While illustrative systems and methods as described herein embodying various aspects of the present disclosure are shown it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the disclosure is not limited to these embodiments. Modifications may be made by those skilled in the art particularly in light of the foregoing teachings. For example each of the features of the aforementioned illustrative examples may be utilized alone or in combination or subcombination with elements of the other examples. For example any of the above described systems and methods or parts thereof may be combined with the other methods and systems or parts thereof described above. For example one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the steps illustrated in the illustrative figures may be performed in other than the recited order and that one or more steps illustrated may be optional in accordance with aspects of the disclosure. It will also be appreciated and understood that modifications may be made without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of restrictive on the present disclosure.

It is noted that various connections are set forth between elements in the following description. These connections are described in general and unless specified otherwise may be direct or indirect this specification is not intended to be limiting in this respect.

