---

title: System, method, and terminal device for providing multiple services by using one or more electronic devices
abstract: A system for providing multiple services by using one or more electronic devices connected to the system includes a data processing apparatus, a portable terminal including an obtaining unit that obtains device data from a target electronic device included in the one or more electronic devices, the device data identifying the one or more electronic devices, a receiving part that receives a selection of a target service included in the multiple services, and a determining part that determines whether the target service can be executed by the target electronic device according to the device data obtained from the target electronic device. In a case where the determining part determines that the target service can be executed by the target electronic device, the portable terminal and the data processing apparatus cooperate with each other and control the target electronic device for providing the target service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146697&OS=09146697&RS=09146697
owner: RICOH COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09146697
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140303
---
The present invention relates to a system a method and a terminal device for providing one or more services.

In a case of instructing a printer to print data stored in a file server there may be a problem in which the printer is unable to print the data due to insufficient defining of data conversion between the printer and the file server. For example Japanese Laid Open Patent Application No. 2005 292903 teaches a control system for solving this problem.

In recent years a user uses various units of electronic equipment for outputting electronic data e.g. printer multi function machine projector and various terminal devices e.g. mobile phone smartphone tablet terminal . The value of a system that utilizes the electronic equipment and terminal devices is expected to increase the more the electronic equipment and the terminal devices are used cooperatively.

However with the conventional system that utilizes the electronic equipment and the terminal devices there is no mechanism that allows multiple services to be provided by using one or more units of electronic equipment among the multiple units of electronic equipment connected to the system.

The present invention may provide a system a method and a terminal device for providing a service that substantially obviate one or more of the problems caused by the limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

Features and advantages of the present invention are set forth in the description which follows and in part will become apparent from the description and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by practice of the invention according to the teachings provided in the description. Objects as well as other features and advantages of the present invention will be realized and attained by a system a method and a terminal device for providing a service particularly pointed out in the specification in such full clear concise and exact terms as to enable a person having ordinary skill in the art to practice the invention.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the invention as embodied and broadly described herein an embodiment of the present invention provides a service providing system for providing multiple services by using one or more electronic devices connected to the service providing system the system including a data processing apparatus a portable terminal including an obtaining unit configured to obtain device data from a target electronic device included in the one or more electronic devices the device data identifying the one or more electronic devices a receiving part configured to receive a selection of a target service included in the multiple services and a determining part configured to determine whether the target service can be executed by the target electronic device according to the device data obtained from the target electronic device. In a case where the determining part determines that the target service can be executed by the target electronic device the portable terminal and the data processing apparatus are configured to cooperate with each other and control the target electronic device for providing the target service.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The network N may use a network in a private environment such as a network inside a company. The smartphone and the tablet terminal are examples of a portable terminal carried and operated by a user. Besides the smartphone and the tablet terminal the portable terminal may also be for example a mobile phone or a laptop PC Personal Computer as long as it is a device that can be carried and operated by a user.

The MFP and the projector are examples of electronic equipment electronic apparatuses that perform input output of electronic data e.g. printing scanning projecting . Further the digital camera the microphone and the speaker are also examples of the electronic equipment that perform input output of electronic data. Besides the MFP and the projector the electronic equipment may also be for example a printer a scanner a copier and an image display apparatus as long as it is an apparatus that performs input output of electronic data.

The MFP is an example of an image forming apparatus. The MFP includes for example an imaging function an image forming function and a communicating function. Thus the MFP may be used as for example a printer a facsimile machine a scanner and a copier. The MFP also includes a Web browser function. Accordingly the MFP plots depicts HTML data stored in the data storage device and displays the plotted data on an UI User Interface . Further the MFP allows a Javascript Registered Trademark program to operate on the UI. Thereby the UI can receive requests such as printing requests or scanning requests from the user. The projector is an example of an image projection apparatus. The projector includes for example a projecting function and a communicating function.

The data storage apparatus is an example of a data process apparatus. The data storage apparatus can perform high function processes that cannot be performed by the MFP or the projector . The data storage apparatus also performs processes of a file server. It is to be noted that the data storage apparatus cooperates with the terminal devices e.g. smartphone tablet terminal and performs input output of electronic data by way of the electronic equipment e.g. MFP projector . It is to be noted that the data storage apparatus may be constituted of multiple independent separate computers.

For example the data storage apparatus may be implemented by a computer system having a hardware configuration illustrated in . It is to be noted that terminal devices such as the smartphone and the tablet terminal also have a hardware configuration illustrated in . is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of a hardware configuration of a computer system according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The computer system of includes for example an input device a display device an external I F a RAM Random Access Memory a ROM Read Only Memory a CPU Central Processing Unit a communication I F interface and a HDD Hard Disk Drive that are connected to each other by a bus B. The input device includes for example a keyboard and a mouse. The input device is used for inputting operation signals to the computer system .

The display device includes for example a display. The display device displays process results of the computer system . The communication I F is an interface that connects the computer system to the network N. Accordingly the computer system can perform data communications with for example other portable terminals and electronic devices via the communication I F .

The HDD is a non volatile storage apparatus that stores for example programs and data therein. The programs and data stored in the HDD include for example basic software for controlling the entire computer system e.g. Operating System OS and application software for providing various functions by way of the OS. Further the HDD manages its stored programs and data by using a predetermined file system and or a database DB .

The external I F is an interface for for example an external apparatus provided outside the computer system . The external apparatus may be for example a recording medium . Accordingly the computer system can read write data from to the recording medium via the external I F . It is to be noted that the recording medium includes for example a flexible disk a CD Compact Disk a DVD Digital Versatile Disk an SD Secure Digital memory card and a USB Universal Serial Bus memory.

The ROM is a non volatile semiconductor memory storage device that can maintain programs and data stored therein even when not powered. The ROM stores programs data pertaining to BIOS Basic Input Output System that is executed when activating the computer system programs data pertaining to OS settings and programs data pertaining to network settings therein.

The CPU is a processor arithmetic unit that implements the entire controls and functions of the computer system by reading out programs and data from storage devices e.g. ROM HDD loading the programs and data into the RAM and executing various processes according to the programs and data.

With the above described embodiment of the hardware configuration of the computer system the computer system can implement the various processes described below.

The CPU controls the entire operations of the portable terminal . The ROM stores basic input output programs therein. The RAM is used as a work area of the CPU . The EEPROM reads out and writes data according to the controls of the CPU . The CMOS sensor images an object and obtains image data of the object. The acceleration azimuth sensor includes for example an electromagnetic compass or a gyrocompass that detects terrestrial magnetism or an acceleration sensor. The media drive controls reading writing storing of data with respect to various recording media such as flash memory. The recording media may be detachably attached to the media drive so that data recorded in the recording media can be read from the recording media and or new data can be written stored into the recording media .

It is to be noted that the EEPROM stores for example association data used for network settings and OS data executed by the CPU . In this embodiment an application used for executing a cooperation service hereinafter also referred to as cooperation application is stored in the EEPROM or the recording media .

Further the CMOS sensor is not limited to a CMOS sensor but may be other types of sensors such as a CCD Charge Coupled Device sensor as long as the sensor can convert light into electric charges for digitizing an image of an object.

Further the portable terminal includes for example an audio input part an audio output part an antenna a communication part a wireless LAN communication part a short distance wireless communication antenna a short distance wireless communication part a display part a touch panel and a bus line .

The audio input part converts sound into audio signals. The audio output part converts audio signals into sound. The communication part transmits receives wireless signals with a nearest base station by using the antenna . The wireless LAN communication part performs short distance wireless communications e.g. Bluetooth registered trademark communications by using the short distance wireless communication antenna .

The display part may be for example a liquid crystal display or an organic electro luminescence display. The display part may display for example an image of an object and various icons. The touch panel may be for example a pressure sensitive panel or a electrostatic type panel arranged on the display part . The touch panel detects a location touch position on the display part in accordance with a touch by a finger a pen or the like. The bus line may be for example an address bus or a data bus for electrically connecting the aforementioned parts and components of the portable terminal .

Further the portable terminal also includes a battery dedicated for the portable terminal . The portable terminal is driven by the battery . It is to be noted that the audio input part includes a microphone into which sound is input. The audio output part includes a speaker from which sound is output.

With the above described embodiment of the hardware configuration of the portable terminal the portable terminal can implement the various processes described below.

The data storage apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention is implemented with for example the process parts illustrated in the block diagram of . is a block diagram illustrating process parts of the data storage apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention. The data storage apparatus executes a program s to implement the processes of an OS a Web server a UI for a PC browser PC browser UI a UI for an MFP MFP UI a Web API Application Programming Interface a shared folder a document management part and a Web control part by way of a processor.

The OS is an operating system of the data storage apparatus . The OS controls the entire system of the data storage apparatus . The OS may be for example Windows registered trademark or Linux registered trademark .

The Web server is software that transmits receives data by using HTTP Hyper Text Transfer Protocol . The Web server may be for example Apache Tomcat registered trademark or IIS Internet Information Services registered trademark .

The PC browser UI displays a system setting screen on a portable terminal in accordance with an HTTP request. The user uses a Web browser not illustrated to perform changes of settings by way of the system setting screen.

The MFP UI displays a code data screen on an electronic device such as the MFP in accordance with an HTTP request. An example of the code data displayed on the code data screen is a QR code registered trademark . The QR code is a matrix type two dimensional code. Further the MFP UI also displays for example a printing screen or a scanning screen in accordance with a HTTP request. The user uses a Web browser function of the MFP to instruct for example the MFP to perform a printing process or a scanning process.

The Web API can be used via the network N. The Web API receives accepts an HTTP request performs a process corresponding to the HTTP request and transmits an HTTP response. The Web API also generates a QR code.

The Web API is an interface that is predefined for receiving a request from a portable terminal such as the smartphone and the tablet terminal . The Web API is constituted by for example functions and classes.

Further the Web API of the data storage apparatus can be provided to a developer of an application installed in a portable terminal as a SDK Software Development Kit . The developer of the application can develop an application by using the SDK. The SDK may also be provided to an entity third party vendor other than the provider of the data storage apparatus . Accordingly the third party vendor can develop an application by using the SDK. The application developed by using the SDK can be installed in a portable terminal .

By providing the Web API of the data storage apparatus as an SDK not only an application developed by a provider of the data storage apparatus can be installed in a portable terminal but also an application developed by a third party vendor or the like can be installed in the portable terminal .

The shared folder is a folder that is made available on the network N by using a SMB Server Message Block protocol. The user can access the shared folder by using a portable terminal such as the smartphone or the tablet terminal .

The document management part manages a file placed in the shared folder and performs a data conversion process in accordance with a request from the Web control part . In this embodiment a file is one form of electronic data. The Web control part controls the document management part in accordance with a request from the Web API .

The processes performed by the data storage apparatus can be further divided into two processes. The first process includes the processes performed by the Web server the PC browser UI the MFP UI and the Web API . The second process includes the processes performed by the shared folder the document management part and the Web control part . Accordingly the Web API and the Web control part exchange communicate processes with each other.

The portable terminal according to an embodiment of the present invention is implemented with for example the process parts illustrated in the block diagram of . is a block diagram illustrating process parts of the portable terminal according to an embodiment of the present invention. The portable terminal executes a program s to implement the processes of an OS a data storage apparatus communication part a printing management part a projector management part a file list display part a setting data display part an upload screen display part a QR code read part and a preview display part by way of a processor.

The OS is an operating system of the portable terminal . The OS controls the entire system of the portable terminal . The OS may be for example iOS registered trademark or Android registered trademark .

The data storage apparatus communication part transmits receives data with respect to the Web API of the data storage apparatus by using HTTP. Further the data storage apparatus communication part accesses the shared folder of the data storage apparatus by using SMB.

For example the file list display part the setting data display part and the upload screen display part use the data storage apparatus communication part to obtain data such as electronic data from the data storage apparatus or to request the data storage apparatus to perform a predetermined process.

For example the file list display part displays a list of files in the data storage apparatus and receives accepts a selection of a file by the user. For example the setting data display part performs settings for communicating with the data storage apparatus and displays setting data of the portable terminal . For example the upload screen display part displays a menu of files for uploading to the data storage apparatus and uploads data such as a file to the data storage apparatus .

For example data may be uploaded to the data storage apparatus by reading a QR code indicated on the MFP scanning data with the MFP and uploading the scanned data to the data storage apparatus . In another example data may be uploaded to the data storage apparatus by uploading data from the portable terminal . In yet another example data may be uploaded to the data storage apparatus by taking a photograph with a camera function of the portable terminal and uploading data of the photograph to the data storage apparatus .

In a case where the user selects a file from the list of files displayed by the file list display part the preview display part displays a preview of the file selected by the user. The preview display part also displays a menu for performing a projecting process or a printing process. The projector management part performs processes such as searching registering the projector and instructing the projector to project the file selected by the user. The printing management part performs processes such as searching registering the MFP and instructing the MFP to print the file selected by the user.

In a case of reading a QR code with the portable terminal the QR code read part may use for example the preview display part the setting data display part and the screen display part . The QR code read by the QR code read part includes for example a QR code to be registered for connecting the portable terminal to the data storage apparatus a QR code for identifying designating the MFP that is to perform a printing process or a scanning process or a QR code for identifying designating the projector that is to perform a projecting process.

Next the processes performed by the input output system according to an embodiment of the present invention are described in further detail.

In this embodiment a sequence of processes of the input output system is performed by scanning data with the MFP and projecting the scanned data with the projector via the smartphone . is a sequence diagram illustrating processes performed by the input output system according to an embodiment of the present invention.

First the user operates the MFP and requests the MFP to display a QR code screen Step S . In a case where displaying of the QR code screen is requested by the user the MFP sends a request for a QR code screen to the data storage apparatus to obtain a QR code screen Step S . Further the MFP sends a request for a QR code to the data storage apparatus to obtain a QR code Step S . Thereby the MFP displays the QR code screen including the QR code.

The QR code displayed in the QR code screen includes for example an IP address of the data storage apparatus that generated the QR code an IP address of the MFP that displays the QR code and capability data of a target electronic device e.g. capability data of the MFP . The capability data of the target electronic device indicates a process that can be performed by the target electronic device. For example the capability data of the target electronic device indicate whether a printing process can be performed whether a projecting process can be performed or whether a scanning process can be performed. In a case of providing a scanning service with the target electronic device the QR code includes data indicating that the target electronic device includes a scanning function.

Then the user operates the smartphone and requests the smartphone to display an upload screen for setting an upload destination Step S . is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of the upload screen. When the user presses an upload destination setting button displayed on the upload screen the smartphone sends a request for a folder list list of folders to which data can be uploaded to the data storage apparatus to obtain a folder list Step S . The smartphone displays a folder selection screen as illustrated in for example . is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of the folder selection screen.

Then the user operates the smartphone to select a folder as an upload destination from the folders in the folder list displayed in the folder selection screen of Step S . Then the user presses a set scanning set reading button displayed in the upload screen of Step S . When the set scanning button is pressed the smartphone displays a scan read setting screen as illustrated in .

While the QR code screen including the QR code is being displayed by the MFP the MFP performs polling with respect to the data storage apparatus for inquiring whether a scanning process has been requested by using the QR code Step S . The process of inquiring whether scanning has been requested is a background process of the MFP. In a case where the scanning process has not yet been requested a no scan request is returned from the data storage apparatus in response to the MFP s inquiry in Step S.

It is to be noted that the order for performing the process of displaying the QR code screen including Steps S S the process of selecting the folder of the upload destination including Step S S and the process of setting the scan conditions including Step S is merely an example and may be arbitrarily changed.

Then the user operates the smartphone and selects scan by using a QR code by pressing a designate MFP with QR code button displayed on the upload screen of Step S .

When the designate MFP with QR code button is pressed the smartphone displays a QR code read screen as illustrated in . is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of the QR code read screen. The QR code read screen includes a QR code display area . In this embodiment the QR code display area is an area from which an image taken obtained by the camera function of the smartphone is displayed.

Then the user uses the camera function of the smartphone to obtain an image of the QR code displayed on the QR code screen of the MFP Step S . The user adjusts the position between the QR code displayed on the QR code screen and the smartphone so that the image of the QR code obtained with the camera function of the smartphone can be displayed in the QR code display area of the QR code read screen.

By obtaining the image of the QR code the smartphone reads the QR code displayed on the QR code screen of the MFP . As mentioned above the read QR code includes the IP address of the data storage apparatus which is to be the destination for transmitting scanned data the IP address of the MFP which is the source for transmitting the scanned data and capability data of the MFP .

The smartphone determines whether the capability data of the MFP obtained from the QR code includes a scanning function selected by the user in Step S. For example in a case where the user selects a scanning function by pressing scan by using a QR code the smartphone determines whether the capability data of the MFP obtained from the QR code includes data indicating that the MFP has a scanning function.

In a case where the QR code includes data indicating that the MFP includes a scanning function the smartphone proceeds to a subsequent process in this embodiment a process of requesting a scanning process . In this case the smartphone may display the QR code read screen as illustrated in for informing the user that the target electronic device MFP has a scanning function and that the scanning process can be performed. is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of the QR code read screen in a case where the MFP has a scanning function.

In a case where the QR code does not include data indicating that the MFP includes a scanning function the smartphone indicates an error on the QR code read screen as illustrated in and terminates displaying the QR code read screen. is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of the QR code read screen in a case where the MFP does not have a scanning function. Alternatively after displaying the QR code read screen as illustrated in the smartphone may display the QR code read screen of again and continue displaying the QR code read screen until the smartphone determines that a QR code includes data indicating that the MFP includes a scanning function.

Then the smartphone uses the IP address of the data storage apparatus which is to be the destination for transmitting scanned data and transmits a scan request to the data storage apparatus Step S . The scan request includes data pertaining to the folder to which data is uploaded and data pertaining to the scan conditions.

Similar to Step S the MFP performs polling with respect to the data storage apparatus for inquiring whether a scanning process has been requested by using the QR code Step S . In this case a response indicating a scan request is returned from the data storage apparatus in response to the MFP s inquiry. In addition to the response from the data storage apparatus the data pertaining to the folder to which data is uploaded and the data pertaining to the scan conditions are also transmitted to the MFP . Then the MFP executes a scanning process in accordance with the scan conditions Step S . Then the MFP stores the scanned data in the folder of the data storage apparatus selected as the upload destination Step S .

The processes performed in Steps S and S are repeated in correspondence with the number of pages of the scanned document. The scanned data becomes JPEG format data or TIFF format data depending on whether the scanned data is color or monochrome. After every page of the document has been scanned the MFP requests the data storage apparatus to perform data conversion on the scanned data Step S .

The data storage apparatus gathers combines all of the scanned data corresponding to each page into a single group of data and converts the scanned data into a scan file of a PDF format Step S . It is however to be noted that the scanned data may be converted into data formats other than the PDF format. The data format used to convert the scanned data in may be for example a data format capable of combining all of the scanned data into a single group of data or a data format capable of being displayed with the smartphone .

Then the user operates the smartphone and requests the smartphone to display a main screen see for selecting a scan file Step S . is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of the main screen.

In a case where the user has requested the smartphone to display the main screen the smartphone obtains a file list by requesting the data storage apparatus for the file list Step S . Then the smartphone displays the main screen including a file list as illustrated in Step S .

In Step S the user operates the smartphone and selects a file in this embodiment scan file from the file list of . Then the smartphone obtains the scan file by requesting downloading of the file scan file selected by the user Step S .

As illustrated in the smartphone displays a preview of the scan file downloaded from the data storage apparatus on the main screen. is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of the preview displayed on the main screen.

Then the user operates the smartphone and selects project by using QR code data output by projecting by pressing a designate projector with QR code button displayed on the main screen of Step S . When the designate projector with QR code button is pressed the smartphone displays a QR code read screen as illustrated in .

Then the user uses the camera function of the smartphone to obtain an image of a QR code of the projector Step S . For example the QR code of the projector may be indicated on an adhesive material adhered to a casing of the projector . Alternatively the QR code of the projector may be indicated on a projection screen. Alternatively in a case where there is a display panel the QR code of the projector may be indicated on the display panel.

The user adjusts the position between the QR code of the projector and the smartphone so that the image of the QR code obtained with the camera function of the smartphone can be displayed in the QR code display area of the QR code read screen.

By obtaining the image of the QR code the smartphone reads the QR code of the projector . As mentioned above the read QR code includes the IP address of the projector which is to project the scan file and capability data of the projector .

The smartphone determines whether the capability data of the projector obtained from the QR code includes a projecting function. That is the smartphone determines whether the capability data of the projector obtained from the QR code includes data indicating that the projector has a projecting function.

In a case where the QR code includes data indicating that the projector includes a projecting function the smartphone proceeds to a subsequent process in this embodiment a process of requesting a projecting process . On the other hand in a case where the QR code does not include data indicating that the projector includes a projecting function the smartphone indicates an error on the QR code read screen and terminates displaying the QR code read screen. Alternatively after displaying the error on the QR code read screen the smartphone may display the QR code read screen of again and continue displaying the QR code read screen until the smartphone determines that a QR code includes data indicating that the projector includes a projecting function. Similar to the scanning service in the case where the QR code includes data indicating that the projector includes a projecting function the smartphone may display the QR code read screen as illustrated in for informing the user that the target electronic device projector has a projecting function and that the scanning process can be performed. Further in the case where the QR code does not include data indicating that the projector includes a projecting function the smartphone indicates an error on the QR code read screen similar to that of .

Then the smartphone converts the scan file of the PDF format obtained in Step S into a file for projection Step S . In this embodiment the data format of the scan file converted in Step S is a JPEG format. It is however to be noted that the scan file may be converted into data formats other than the JPEG format. The data format that is converted in Step S may be for example a data format that can be projected by the projector .

Then the smartphone transmits the file for projection hereinafter also referred to as projection file to the projector Step S . Then the projector executes a process of projecting the projection file received from the smartphone Step S .

Accordingly by performing the processes illustrated in the sequence diagram of the MFP for scanning data and the projector for projecting data can easily cooperate with each other. Although the user explicitly selects data input by scanning in Step S of the sequence diagram of whether to perform data input by scanning may be determined according to function data included in the QR code of the MFP .

Further although the user explicitly selects data output by projecting in Step S of the sequence diagram of whether to perform data output by projecting may be determined according to function data included in the QR code of the projector .

Further after Step S of the sequence diagram of an error may be determined depending on whether a function explicitly selected by the user is included in the functions of the function data included in the QR code of the MFP . For example the smartphone may determine that the function explicitly selected by the user in Step S is an error when the function explicitly selected by the user is not included in the functions of the function data included in the QR code of the MFP .

Further after Step S of the sequence diagram of an error may be determined depending on whether a function explicitly selected by the user is included in the functions of the function data included in the QR code of the projector . For example the smartphone may determine that the function explicitly selected by the user in Step S is an error when the function explicitly selected by the user is not included in the functions of the function data included in the QR code of the projector .

In this embodiment a sequence of processes of the input output system is performed by scanning data with the MFP and printing the scanned data with an MFP via the smartphone . is a sequence diagram illustrating processes performed by the input output system according to another embodiment of the present invention. It is to be noted that the sequence diagram of is substantially the same as the sequence diagram of except for a portion of the sequence diagram of . Therefore explanation of like processes between the sequence diagram of and the sequence diagram of is omitted.

The processes of Steps S S of are substantially the same as the processes of Steps S S of . Therefore further explanation of the processes of Steps S S of is omitted. Then the user operates the smartphone and selects scan by using a QR code by pressing a designate MFP with QR code button displayed on the upload screen of Step S .

When the designate MFP with QR code button is pressed the smartphone displays a QR code read screen as illustrated in . Then the user uses the camera function of the smartphone to obtain an image of the QR code displayed on the QR code screen of the MFP Step S . By obtaining the image of the QR code the smartphone reads the QR code displayed on the QR code screen of the MFP .

Then the smartphone uses the IP address of the MFP which is to be the source for transmitting scanned data and transmits a scan request to the MFP Step S . The scan request includes data pertaining to the folder to which data is uploaded and data pertaining to the scan conditions. In the sequence diagram of the MFP does not performs polling with respect to the data storage apparatus for inquiring whether a scanning process has been requested by using the QR code. Instead of transmitting a scan request to the data storage apparatus the smartphone transmits a scan request to the MFP .

The processes of Steps S S of are substantially the same as the processes of Steps S S of . Therefore further explanation of the processes of Steps S S of is omitted. Then the user operates the smartphone and selects MFP printing by using QR code by pressing a designate MFP with QR code button displayed on the main screen of Step S . When the designate MFP with QR code button is pressed the smartphone displays a QR code read screen as illustrated in .

Then the user uses the camera function of the smartphone to obtain an image of a QR code of the MFP Step S . For example the QR code of the MFPmay be indicated on an adhesive material adhered to a casing of the MFP . Alternatively the QR code of the MFP may be indicated on an operation panel of MFP . The user adjusts the position between the QR code of the MFP and the smartphone so that the image of the QR code obtained with the camera function of the smartphone can be displayed in the QR code display area of the QR code read screen. By obtaining the image of the QR code the smartphone reads the QR code of the MFP which includes an IP address of the MFP

Then the smartphone request the data storage apparatus to perform data conversion on the scan file in this embodiment scan file of PDF format selected in Step S Step S . Then the data storage apparatus converts the scan file into a file of a format used for printing hereinafter also referred to as printing file Step S . In this embodiment the format of the printing file is an RPCS format. It is however to be noted that the scan file may be converted into data formats other than the RPCS format. The data format used to convert the scan file may be for example a data format that allows the MFP to print the scan file.

The data storage apparatus transmits the converted data printing file to the smartphone . Then the smartphone transmits the printing file to the MFP Step S . Then the MFP prints the printing file Step S .

Accordingly by performing the processes illustrated in the sequence diagram of the MFP for scanning data and the MFP for printing data can easily cooperate with each other. Although different MFPs are used for performing the scanning process and the printing process i.e. MFP and MFP the same MFP may be used for performing the scanning process and the printing process.

Although the user explicitly selects data output by printing in Step S of the sequence diagram of whether to perform data output by printing may be determined according to function data included in the QR code of the MFP

Further after Step S of the sequence diagram of an error may be determined depending on whether a function explicitly selected by the user is included in the functions of the function data included in the QR code of the MFP

Further similar to the sequence diagram of the smartphone may transmits a scan request to the data storage apparatus and the MFP may perform polling with respect to the data storage apparatus for inquiring whether a scanning process has been requested.

In this embodiment a sequence of processes of the input output system is performed by scanning data with the MFP and projecting the scanned data with the projector without the intervening of the smartphone . is a sequence diagram illustrating processes performed by the input output system according to yet another embodiment of the present invention. The sequence diagram of is substantially the same as the sequence diagram of except for a portion of the sequence diagram of . Therefore explanation of like processes between the sequence diagram of and the sequence diagram of is omitted.

The processes of Steps S S of are substantially the same as the processes of Steps S S of . Therefore further explanation of the processes of Steps S S of is omitted. Then the smartphone sends a request for projection of the scan file selected in Step S to the data storage apparatus Step S . Then the data storage apparatus converts the scan file of the PDF format into a file for projection Step S . In this embodiment the data format of the converted scan file in Step S is a JPEG format. It is however to be noted that the scan file may be converted into data formats other than the JPEG format. The data format that is converted in Step S may be for example a data format that can be projected by the projector .

Then the data storage apparatus transmits the file for projection hereinafter also referred to as projection file to the projector Step S . Then the projector executes a process of projecting the projection file received from the data storage apparatus Step S .

Accordingly by performing the processes illustrated in the sequence diagram of the MFP for scanning data and the projector for projecting data can easily cooperate with each other. Similar to the sequence diagram of the MFP need not perform polling with respect to the data storage apparatus for inquiring whether a scanning process has been requested. Instead of transmitting a scan request to the data storage apparatus the smartphone may transmit a scan request to the MFP .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the processes of the sequence diagrams of and may be combined so that the input output system may arbitrarily perform the combined processes. For example although the smartphone performs the process of converting the scan file of the PDF format into the projection file of the JPEG format in the sequence diagram of the data storage apparatus may perform the process of converting the scan file of the PDF format into the projection file of the JPEG format as illustrated in the sequence diagram of .

Similarly although the data storage apparatus performs the process of converting the scan file of the PDF format into the printing file of the RPCS format in the sequence diagram of the smartphone may perform the process of converting the scan file of the PDF format into the printing file of the RPCS format as illustrated in the sequence diagram of .

Further although the printing data is printed by the MFP via the smartphone in the sequence diagram of the data storage apparatus may directly transmit the printing data to the MFP instead of transmitting the printing data by way of the smartphone .

With the above described embodiments of the input output system the user can obtain data that identifies a target electronic device e.g. QR code by holding a portable terminal e.g. smartphone tablet terminal over or near an electronic device e.g. MFP projector . The user can easily select an electronic device for inputting or outputting electronic data from multiple electronic devices.

Thus with the above described embodiments of the input output system one or more electronic devices can be controlled by having a portable terminal and a data processing apparatus e.g. data storage apparatus cooperatively operated by the user. Thereby various services can be provided by the input output system .

The present invention is not limited to the specifically disclosed embodiments and variations and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The present application is based on and claims the benefit of priority of Japanese Priority Application Nos. 2013 043889 and 2014 031706 filed on Mar. 6 2013 and Feb. 21 2014 respectively with the Japanese Patent Office the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

