---

title: Automated collaboration for peer-to-peer electronic devices
abstract: Automated collaboration for peer-to-peer electronic devices, in which a user profile is registered for a peer-to-peer network. The user profile defines rules for automated collaboration among electronic devices connected to the peer-to-peer network. An electronic device connected to the peer-to-peer network discovers a new electronic device joining the peer-to-peer network. The electronic device sends, to the new electronic device, the user profile and automatically, without user input at the electronic device or the new electronic device, negotiates with the new electronic device to determine how the electronic device and the new electronic device will collaboratively work together to meet the rules specified in the user profile. Based on the negotiation, the electronic device collaborates with the new electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device handling at least a portion of an event at the new electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782122&OS=08782122&RS=08782122
owner: 
number: 08782122
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140117
---
The present disclosure generally relates to automated collaboration for peer to peer electronic devices.

Consumer electronic devices are manufactured to manage the storage transport and consumption of digital media including music video photos etc. Consumer electronic devices also are equipped with Internet connectivity via either a wired connection or a wireless connection. Devices from different manufacturers have varying features and inter connectivity capabilities. In the home entertainment arena these devices include televisions TVs stereo systems digital frames camcorders digital cameras remote controls smartphones and tablet devices just to name a few. Devices from different manufacturers may not work together or it may be challenging to set up suitable device configurations in order to achieve interoperability.

In one aspect an electronic device includes a communication module configured to enable the electronic device to communicate with other electronic devices over a peer to peer network an output unit configured to provide output for media operations handled by the electronic device and at least one processor configured to execute software or firmware that is embedded in the electronic device and that provides peer to peer intelligence for performing automated collaboration among electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network. The at least one processor is configured to execute the software or firmware and perform the peer to peer intelligence by establishing using the communication module a connection to the peer to peer network and determining whether a user profile that defines rules for automated collaboration among electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network exists for the peer to peer network. Based on a determination that a user profile does not exist for the peer to peer network the at least one processor prompts using the output unit for user input that defines a user profile that defines rules for automated collaboration among electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and based on the prompting receives user input that specifies rules for automated collaboration among electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network. The at least one processor defines a user profile for the peer to peer network based on the user input that specifies rules for automated collaboration among electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and registers for the peer to peer network the user profile as the user profile that defines rules for automated collaboration among electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network. The at least one processor also detects a first event that results in performance of a particular type of action using one or more electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and based on the user profile handles the first event at the electronic device by causing performance of the particular type of action at the electronic device. The at least one processor further discovers a new electronic device joining the peer to peer network. The new electronic device is different than and separate from the electronic device. Based on discovering the new electronic device joining the peer to peer network the at least one processor sends to the new electronic device and over the peer to peer network using the communication module the user profile registered for the peer to peer network and automatically without user input at the electronic device or the new electronic device negotiates with the new electronic device to determine how the electronic device and the new electronic device will collaboratively work together to meet the rules specified in the user profile registered for the peer to peer network. In addition the at least one processor detects a second event that results in performance of the particular type of action using one or more electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network. The second event is different from and occurs after the first event. Based on the negotiation with the new electronic device the at least one processor collaborates with the new electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device handling at least a portion of the second event at the new electronic device by performing at least part of the particular type of action at the new electronic device. In another aspect a method may include one or more of the operations described as being performed by the at least one processor. In yet another aspect a computer readable storage medium may be operable to cause a processor to perform one or more of the operations described as being performed by the at least one processor.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For instance the at least one processor may collaborate with the new electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device handling all of the second event at the new electronic device by performing the particular type of action at the new electronic device.

In some implementations the at least one processor may collaborate with the new electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device handling a first portion of the second event at the new electronic device by performing a first part of the particular type of action at the new electronic device and handle a second portion of the second event at the electronic device by causing performance of a second part of the particular type of action at the electronic device. In these implementations the at least one processor may handle the first event at the electronic device by displaying image content associated with the particular type of action at the electronic device and outputting audio content associated with the particular type of action at the electronic device. Further in these implementations the at least one processor may collaborate with the new electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device handling the first portion of the second event at the new electronic device by outputting audio content associated with the particular type of action at the new electronic device and handle the second portion of the second event at the electronic device by displaying image content associated with the particular type of action at the electronic device.

In addition the at least one processor may detect as the first event a first user input command to output content using one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network and detect as the second event a second user input command to output content using one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network. The at least one processor may detect as the first event that a particular device has joined the peer to peer network and detect as the second event that the particular device has rejoined the peer to peer network subsequent to being removed from the peer to peer network after the handling of the first event at the electronic device. The at least one processor also may detect as the first event a first instance of a timing event tracked by one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network and detect as the second event a second instance of the timing event tracked by one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network. The second instance of the timing event may occur after the first instance of the timing event. The at least one processor further may detect as the first event receipt of a first communication of a particular type by one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network and detect as the second event receipt of a second communication of the particular type by one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network. The second communication may be different than the first communication and may be received subsequent to receipt of the first communication.

In some examples the at least one processor may receive from the new electronic device using the communication module an indication of a change to the user profile registered for the peer to peer network that was made based on user input provided to the new electronic device and update at the electronic device the user profile registered for the peer to peer network based on the indication of the change received from the new electronic device. In these examples the at least one processor may automatically without user input at any of the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network negotiate with the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network to determine how the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network will collaboratively work together to meet the rules specified in the updated user profile registered for the peer to peer network.

In some implementations the at least one processor may update at the electronic device the user profile registered for the peer to peer network in a manner that results in a change to how the particular type of action is handled by the peer to peer network and detect a third event that results in performance of the particular type of action using one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network. The third event may be different from and may occur after the first event and the second event. In these implementations based on the negotiation with the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network to determine how the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network will collaboratively work together to meet the rules specified in the updated user profile registered for the peer to peer network the at least one processor may collaborate with the new electronic device and a third electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device and the third electronic device collaboratively handling the second event at the new electronic device and the third electronic device by perform a first part of the particular type of action at the new electronic device and performing a second part of the particular type of action at the third electronic device.

In some examples the at least one processor may update at the electronic device the user profile registered for the peer to peer network in a manner that results in a change to how the particular type of action is handled by the peer to peer network and the at least one processor may detect a third event that results in performance of the particular type of action using one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network. The third event may be different from and may occur after the first event and the second event. In these examples based on the negotiation with the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network to determine how the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network will collaboratively work together to meet the rules specified in the updated user profile registered for the peer to peer network the at least one processor may handle the third event at the electronic device by causing performance of the particular type of action at the electronic device.

In some implementations the at least one processor may define a user profile for the peer to peer network that includes rules for automated collaboration that are controlled by capabilities of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network. In these implementations the at least one processor may exchange with the new electronic device capabilities of the electronic device and the new electronic device evaluate the exchanged capabilities against the rules for automated collaboration that are controlled by capabilities of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and determine how the electronic device and the new electronic device will collaboratively work together based on the evaluation of the exchanged capabilities against the rules for automated collaboration that are controlled by capabilities of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network.

In some examples the at least one processor may detect a conflict between the new electronic device and the electronic device each requesting handling of the particular type of action and resolve the detected conflict in a manner specified in the peer to peer intelligence for resolving conflicts. In these examples the at least one processor may receive from electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network other than the electronic device and the new electronic device votes for how to resolve the detected conflict between the electronic device and the new electronic device and resolve the detected conflict based on the votes received from electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network other than the electronic device and the new electronic device.

In some implementations the at least one processor may detect a conflict between the new electronic device and the electronic device each requesting handling of the particular type of action and resolve the detected conflict in a manner specified in the peer to peer intelligence for resolving conflicts. In these implementations the at least one processor may access a first priority associated with the electronic device and a second priority associated with the new electronic device compare the first priority with the second priority and resolve the detected conflict based on the comparison of the first priority with the second priority.

In some examples the at least one processor may detect multiple user profiles on electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and analyze rules specified in the multiple user profiles for conflicts in how electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network should collaboratively work together to meet the rules specified in the multiple user profiles. Based on the analysis the at least one processor may identify a conflict in how electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network should collaboratively work together to meet the rules specified in the multiple user profiles. In these examples the at least one processor may negotiate with electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network to determine how to handle the identified conflict and handle a task performed by one or more electronic devices in the peer to peer network based on the negotiation on how to handle the identified conflict.

In some implementations the at least one processor may discover a third electronic device joining the peer to peer network. The third electronic device may be different from the electronic device and the new electronic device and the third electronic device may have a different user profile associated with a network other than the peer to peer network. In these implementations the at least one processor may query whether the third electronic device would like to accept the registered user profile for the peer to peer network or negotiate a temporary guest profile. Based on a request to negotiate a temporary guest profile the at least one processor may access information from the different user profile of the third electronic device and analyze the accessed information from the different user profile of the third electronic device and the registered user profile for the peer to peer network with respect to guest profile rules defined in the registered user profile for the peer to peer network. Based on the analysis of the accessed information from the different user profile and the registered user profile with respect to the guest profile rules the at least one processor may define a temporary guest profile for the peer to peer network and register for the peer to peer network the temporary guest profile. In these implementations the at least one processor may detect the third electronic device leaving the peer to peer network and based on the detection of the third electronic device leaving the peer to peer network removing the temporary guest profile and reverting to the previously registered user profile for the peer to peer network.

In addition the at least one processor may monitor over time use of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and analyze preferences of one or more users of the peer to peer network a current date and time capabilities of electronic devices in the peer to peer network and the monitored use of the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network. Based on the analysis of the preferences of one or more users of the peer to peer network the current date and time the capabilities of electronic devices in the peer to peer network and the monitored use of the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network the at least one processor may determine a user specific experience for a user of the peer to peer network and perform an action based on the determined user specific experience for the user of the peer to peer network.

Further the at least one processor may determine a location of a user within a property in which the peer to peer network is located and determine how to handle a task based on the registered user profile for the peer to peer network and the determined location of the user within the property. The at least one processor may handle the task based on the determination of how to handle the task.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Techniques are described for employing an intelligent application layer embedded in consumer electronic devices which jointly operate over a peer to peer network to automatically deliver a user specific media creation and sharing experience through real time peer to peer negotiation and collaboration among the devices. In some examples a user specifies and updates desired media creation and sharing preferences through a peer to peer network accessible and personalized user profile which can be accessed by the consumer electronic devices at any time.

The intelligence required for each peer device may be implemented in software or firmware and embedded in each individual electronic device. The techniques described may be independent of any lower level layer networking and communication protocols. In some examples the Universal Plug and Play UPnP architecture and Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA architecture are used as the underlying peer to peer communication platform. Under the UPnP and DLNA architecture the electronic devices utilize Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP as the network layer and use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP or Auto IP for device addressing. Each device may incorporate the capability of a UPnP device as well as a UPnP Control Point for flexibility. Device discovery on a peer to peer network may be accomplished using Simple Service Discovery Protocol SSDP and device and service descriptions are communicated in Extensible Markup Language XML format using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Peer communications between devices including commands to execute a function at another peer device may take place using Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and HTTP. Event messaging between peers may take place using General Event Notification Architecture GENA . The electronic device may use any suitable media format including any one of the media formats specified by DLNA such as Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG Linear Pulse Code Modulation LPCM or Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 2 or any other suitable formats.

Under the UPnP architecture devices are designed to support zero configuration invisible networking and automatic discovery. A device may dynamically join a network obtain an IP address convey its capabilities and learn about the presence and capabilities of other devices on the peer to peer network. A device may leave a UPnP network smoothly and automatically without leaving any unwanted states behind. UPnP networking is media independent and UPnP devices may be implemented using any programming language and on any operating system.

UPnP distinguishes between two types of hardware a control point and a device. A control point is responsible for communicating with all the devices it controls and devices generally communicate with other devices via control points. In some implementations each device in the system operates as a UPnP control point and device which empowers each device with full peer to peer communication capabilities. The foundation of UPnP networking is IP addressing. Each device has a DHCP client and searches for a DHCP server when the device is first connected to the network. If a DHCP server is available the network is managed and the device uses the IP address assigned to it by the DHCP server. If no DHCP server is available which is generally the case for the peer to peer networks described throughout this disclosure the device uses Auto IP to get an IP address. Auto IP defines a process of how a device intelligently chooses an IP address from a set of reserved addresses.

Given an IP address the device continues UPnP networking by performing discovery. When a device is added to the network the UPnP protocol allows that device to advertise its services to other devices on the network. Simultaneously the newly added device acting also as a control point uses the UPnP protocol to search for devices of interest on the same network. The exchange in both cases is a discovery message containing specifics about the device or one of its services e.g. its type identifier and a URL pointer to more detailed information.

The device continues UPnP networking by performing description. After a device is added to a network and discovered by others descriptions about the device other nested devices within the device and services associated with the device are made known to other devices. The UPnP description for a device is expressed in XML and includes manufacturer specific information such as the model name and number serial number manufacturer name and URLs to manufacturer specific web sites. The XML description also includes a list of any embedded devices or services as well as URLs for control eventing and presentation. For each service the description includes a list of the commands or actions to which the service responds and parameters or arguments for each action. The description for a service also includes a list of variables which model the state of the service at run time and are described in terms of their data type range and event characteristics.

The device continues UPnP networking by performing control. Each device acting as both a UPnP device and control point may send actions to another device s services. To accomplish this a device sends a suitable control message to the control URL for the service provided in the device description of another device. Control messages are expressed in XML using SOAP. Like function calls in response to the control message the service of the called device returns action specific values. The effects of the action if any are modeled by changes in the variables that describe the run time state of the service.

The device continues UPnP networking by performing eventing. A UPnP description for a service includes a list of actions the service responds to and a list of variables that model the state of the service at run time. The service publishes updates when these variables change and a device may subscribe to receive this information. The service publishes updates by sending event messages. Event messages include the names of one or more state variables and the current value of those variables. These event messages are also expressed in XML. A special initial event message is sent when a device first subscribes this event message includes the names and values for all evented variables and allows the subscribing device to initialize its model of the state of the service. All subscribing devices are sent all event messages subscribing devices receive event messages for all evented variables that have changed and event messages are sent no matter why the state variable changes either in response to a requested action or because the state the service is modeling changed . In this regard eventing enables each peer device to monitor the progress of achieving the desired user functions by other peer devices. Eventing also allows each device to negotiate with other peer devices to make determinations on the optimal way to execute a specific task. Event messaging between peers may take place using GENA.

In some examples the devices in the system take advantage of the DLNA architecture to further streamline the media sharing and consumption experience. In these examples the devices in the system follow the media format standards as set forth by DLNA. includes a table that specifies the media format standards set forth by DLNA. Further the devices in the system may follow the DLNA architecture to allow media information to be passed from one device to another device out of band without having to follow the UPnP communication protocol to use TCP IP for media transport.

In some implementations a user profile is created for a user who specifies a set of desired media functions in a home or business environment. A user profile provides a set of rules for the electronic devices to follow and to collaborate in order to deliver the desired user functions. which are described in more detail below illustrate example user profiles.

In these implementations the user profile may be specified via an HTML based web user interface and registered into the peer to peer network. Every device on the network receives a copy of the user profile. The user profile is strictly followed as peer devices negotiate and collaborate with one another in order to deliver a desired user function as specified in the user profile. The user profile settings may be changed by a user at any time via a browser interface and any such changes are immediately broadcast from the peer device where the changes are entered to all other peer devices on the same network.

Further in these implementations when peer devices such as TVs camcorders smartphones and or cellular phones digital frames media players e.g. Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray players remote controls digital cameras tablet devices personal computers PCs digital video recorders DVRs game consoles network storage devices etc. are brought into the network and automatically discovered by one another each of the peer devices fetches the user profile and begins a series of independent determinations to determine how to collaboratively work together to achieve the functions requested by the user as specified in the user profile. The peer devices negotiate with one another to achieve the objective all without user intervention. Each peer device makes a determination based on its own capabilities its current state capabilities of other peer devices on the same network current states of other peer devices on the same network other parameters such as time of day and the desired outcome as specified in the user profile. Each device may negotiate with other peer devices iteratively in order to achieve the desired media function. In addition each device may continuously monitor the user s media experience and make adjustment as needed according to the user profile and user input in order to optimize overall user experience.

In some examples the user profile may be created and entered into the peer to peer network via a web user interface made possible by the presentation layer of UPnP. In these examples a device may retrieve a page from a URL load the page into a web browser and allow a user to control the device or browse current settings from a web browser. Any user profile updates entered via the web interface may be propagated to other peer devices using UPnP. The propagation of user profile updates allows all devices in the peer to peer network to synchronize their local copy of the user profile. Any other device with a suitable web interface also may be used by the user to enter user profile data which may then be propagated to all other devices on the peer to peer network.

The techniques described throughout with respect to using a user profile for automated collaboration of electronic devices connected to a peer to peer network may be useful for any consumer who wishes to achieve a seamless media consumption experience in a living room or a business environment. Given the fact that an average consumer is flooded with all kinds of consumer electronics devices from all kinds of manufacturers and where device interoperability is challenging the described techniques may allow a consumer to easily interconnect their equipment readily share digital content and seamlessly create and share new media all without human intervention. All the user may have to do is to create a user profile which lays out the user preferences in media consumption and sharing and the described electronic devices may take care of the rest. The user may not have to determine compatibility between consumer electronic devices themselves engage in wiring and connectivity issues or read technical instructions for each device. Instead all the user may have to do is to describe his media consumption preferences in a user profile from a simple web interface and the described electronic devices may do the rest.

The electronic device establishes a connection to a peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device establishes a connection to an in home peer to peer network that is local to a property in which the network resides. The connection may be made through a wired or wireless Internet or other protocol communication module of the electronic device. The connection may be established in accordance with the UPnP and DLNA architectures.

The electronic device determines whether a user profile exists for the peer to peer network . For example the electronic device checks whether a user profile has been registered for the peer to peer network. In this example the electronic device may check its own electronic storage for a user profile and wait for user profile information from other electronic device connected to the peer to peer network. If the electronic device does not store a user profile and does not receive a user profile from another device within a threshold period of time the electronic device may determine that a user profile does not exist for the peer to peer network. In addition the electronic device may ask other electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network for a registered user profile and determine whether a user profile exists for the peer to peer network based on responses received. If the electronic device is the only device connected to the peer to peer network and does not have a user profile in storage the electronic device determines that a user profile does not exist.

The electronic device prompts for user input that defines a user profile based on a determination that a user profile does not exist for the peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device outputs an alert that prompts a user to provide input needed to define a user profile for the peer to peer network.

In some implementations the peer to peer network must be set up and at least one profile established by a user before use. While there are many ways to initially set up a peer to peer network the peer to peer network may initially set up a first device before other peer devices join the network. For example a TV may be the initial device in the network. To set up the network the user launches a web browser and points the browser to the URL unique to the TV which is embedded in the peer to peer intelligence described throughout this disclosure.

The electronic device receives user input that specifies rules for automated collaboration . For example the electronic device receives through a user input mechanism such as a keyboard a mouse and or a touchscreen interface user input that specifies rules the user would like to enforce on the peer to peer network and preferences the user has for actions on the peer to peer network. In this example the electronic device may take the user through a series of questions related to options for automated collaboration on the network and receive the user input as answers to the questions.

In some implementations the electronic device receives through a web browser interface user input assigning a unique device name identifier such as TV 1 to the electronic device and sets up one or more user profiles. Each profile describes desired user scenarios for a particular user. The profile with the highest priority e.g. Priority 1 has precedence over all lower priority Priority 2 or more user profiles. For instance in two profiles are illustrated. One profile is illustrated for user John with higher priority 1 and the other profile is for user John Jr. with lower priority 2 .

The electronic device defines a user profile based on the received user input . For instance the electronic device processes the received user input and stores profile data for the user profile based on the processing of the user input. The electronic device may directly store the user input or may alter the user input into a format that is used by electronic devices to achieve desired user scenarios.

The electronic device may store its assigned device name identifier e.g. TV 1 in its internal storage and this name identifier may be used to uniquely identify the electronic device within the peer to peer network. As other devices such as a camcorder or DVR embedded with the peer to peer intelligence described throughout this disclosure join the network and get discovered the user may use the browser to assign unique name identifiers to the other devices so that all devices in the peer to peer network are uniquely identified by their name identifiers.

A guest profile allowed field stores an indication of whether guest profiles are allowed or not allowed. As shown the user profile allows guest profiles. A music preference field stores music preferences of the user associated with the user profile . The music preferences field may be used to select music that best matches the music preferences when the user desired functionality indicates a desire to play music but does not explicitly indicate which music to play. As shown the user profile indicates music preferences of classic light rock and jazz.

A mood preference field stores mood preferences of the user associated with the user profile . The mood preferences field may be used to perform automated functionality that best matches the mood preferences of the user when the user desired functionality indicates a generic action with the specifics of the action to be automatically determined based on the mood preferences. For example a generic action may be to play a movie with the selection of the movie being made based on the mood preferences. In this example a comedy may be selected based on the mood preferences being Happy and a tragedy may be selected based on the mood preferences being Sad. As shown the user profile indicates a mood preference of Happy. 

A use seasonal theme field stores an indication of whether seasonal themes e.g. Holiday Thanksgiving Valentine Halloween etc. are allowed in performing automated collaboration. As shown the user profile indicates that seasonal themes are allowed. A preferred video display device field stores an indication of which display device is preferred for video display. The user profile stores a device identifier for TV 1 in the Living Room to indicate the preferred video display device.

A preferred audio device field stores an indication of which audio device is preferred for audio output. The user profile stores a device identifier for Stereo 1 in the Living Room to indicate the preferred audio device. A preferred video recording device field stores an indication of which video recording device is preferred for video recording. The user profile stores a device identifier for DVR 1 in the Living Room to indicate the preferred video recording device.

A preferred photo or slideshow display device field stores an indication of which device is preferred for output of photos or a slideshow. The user profile stores a first device identifier for Digital Frame 2 in the Master Bedroom to indicate a first priority preferred photo or slideshow display device and a second device identifier for TV 1 to indicate a second priority preferred photo or slideshow display device. The device priority level may be used to resolve conflicts in automated functionality and or identify a backup device when the preferred device is not connected to the peer to peer network at the time of a task.

A preferred video viewing preference field stores a preference of which video to view and a priority associated with the video viewing preferences. The user profile stores a first device identifier for a Camcorder to indicate a first priority video viewing preference and a second device identifier for TV 1 to indicate a second priority video viewing preference.

A video preemption field stores one or more rules for what actions occur in the peer to peer network when video is automatically preempted. As shown the user profile indicates that a preempted television program is to be recorded by the DVR and then the recorded program is to resume play on the TV when the TV becomes available.

A preferred photo or slideshow viewing source preference field stores a preference of which photos or slideshows to view and a priority associated with the photo or slideshow viewing source preferences. The user profile stores a first device identifier for Digital Camera 1 to indicate a first priority photo or slideshow viewing source preference and a second device identifier for Digital Camera 2 to indicate a second priority photo or slideshow viewing source preference.

A preferred music source preference field stores a preference of which music source to use and a priority associated with the music source preferences. The user profile stores a first device identifier for PC Server 1 to indicate a first priority music source preference and a second device identifier for MP3 Player 1 to indicate a second priority music source preference.

A preferred smartphone preference field stores a preference of which smartphone to use and a priority associated with the smartphone preferences. The user profile stores a first device identifier for Smartphone 1 to indicate a first priority smartphone preference and a second device identifier for Smartphone 2 to indicate a second priority smartphone preference.

A preferred social network viewing preference field stores a preference of which social network to view and a priority associated with the social network viewing preferences. The user profile stores a first social network preference of Facebook to indicate a first priority social network viewing preference and a second social network preference of Twitter to indicate a second priority social network viewing preference.

A social network media playback preference field stores one or more rules for social network media playback. As shown the user profile indicates that photos and videos playback in reverse chronological order.

A preferred social network feed viewing preference field stores a preference of which social network feed to view and a priority associated with the social network feed viewing preferences. The user profile stores a first indication of HDMI Dongle to TV to indicate a first priority social network feed viewing preference and a second indication of Digital Frame 2 to indicate a second priority social network feed viewing preference.

A wakeup service preference field stores one or more rules for what actions occur in a wakeup service routine. As shown the user profile indicates that following an alarm setting in Smartphone 1 on Monday through Friday the peer to peer network is to upon wakeup play social network photos and videos on TV 1 then display the user s calendar on TV 1 and then display on TV 1 any relevant power point presentations associated with today s calendar events.

A TV viewing time preference field stores one or more rules for TV viewing time. As shown the user profile indicates that no TV viewing is allowed between eleven PM and six AM Sunday through Thursday.

As shown in a user profile includes six fields that define parameters of the user profile . As shown a user name or identifier field stores the user name or identifier e.g. John Jr. associated with the user profile . A user profile priority field stores a priority level of the user profile in the peer to peer network. As shown the user profile has a second priority among the user profiles that may be present in the peer to peer network. In this regard the user profile has a lower priority than the user profile and functionality specified by the user profile may preempt functionality specified by the user profile .

A guest profile allowed field stores an indication of whether guest profiles are allowed or not allowed. As shown the user profile allows guest profiles.

A preferred smartphone preference field stores a preference of which smartphone to use. The user profile stores a device identifier for Smartphone 3 to indicate a smartphone preference.

A preferred photo or video viewing source preference field stores a preference of which photo or video to view. The user profile stores a device identifier for Smartphone 3 to indicate a photo or video viewing source preference.

A preferred photo or video display device field stores a preference of which photo or video display device to use. The user profile stores a device identifier for Tablet 3 to indicate a preferred photo or video display device.

The electronic device registers for the peer to peer network the user profile . For example the electronic device stores the user profile as a registered version and sends the user profile to other devices connected to the peer to peer network. In this example the other devices connected to the peer to peer network receive the user profile and store the received user profile as a registered user profile in their own storage. If no other electronic devices are connected to the peer to peer network at the time of registration the electronic device stores the user profile as a registered version and waits for other devices to join the peer to peer network at which time the electronic device sends the user profile to the other devices.

In some implementations a browser interface serves as an administration interface for a user to view or modify his profiles and to view all peer devices presently active in the network. While the user may always launch the browser on the initial device e.g. TV 1 to perform various administrative functions the user is free to launch the browser on any other active peer devices such as a DVR to perform the same administrative functions. Once a user profile is set up or changes made to a profile the profile or the changes made to a profile may be automatically propagated to all other active peer devices on the network. When a peer device exits the network for example when a user takes his smartphone outside the house the device saves a copy of the profile s for future use. When the device rejoins the network the device automatically synchronizes its profile s with the latest profile s from other active devices in the network.

The electronic device detects a first event that results in performance of a particular type of action . For instance the electronic device may detect a first user input command to output content e.g. a movie a song etc. using one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network. The electronic device also may detect that a particular device e.g. a camcorder a digital camera a smartphone etc. has joined the peer to peer network as the first event. The electronic device further may detect a first instance of a timing event e.g. an alarm trigger tracked by one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network. In addition the electronic device may detect receipt of a first communication of a particular type e.g. an electronic mail message a text e.g. SMS message a post on a social network etc. by one or more devices connected to the peer to peer network.

The electronic device handles the first event at the electronic device in accordance with the registered user profile . For instance the electronic device handles the first event by performing one or more actions associated with the first event. The actions may include displaying and or audibly outputting content. The electronic device handles the entirety of the first event because the electronic device determines that it is the best device to handle all of the actions associated with the first event in accordance with the user profile registered at the time of the first event.

The electronic device discovers a new electronic device joining the peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device detects that a new electronic device has established a connection to the peer to peer network. The discovery may be performed in accordance with the UPnP and DLNA architectures.

The electronic device sends to the new electronic device the registered user profile . For instance the electronic device accesses the registered user profile from its electronic storage and sends over the peer to peer network to the new electronic device the accessed user profile.

The electronic device automatically negotiates with the new electronic device to determine how the electronic device and the new electronic device will collaboratively work together to meet the rules specified in the user profile registered for the peer to peer network . For example the user profile for the peer to peer network may include rules for automated collaboration that are controlled by capabilities e.g. screen size audio output quality connectivity speed processing power battery life etc. of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network. In this example the electronic device may exchange with the new electronic device capabilities of the electronic device and the new electronic device evaluate the exchanged capabilities against the rules for automated collaboration that are controlled by capabilities of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and determine how the electronic device and the new electronic device will collaboratively work together based on the evaluation of the exchanged capabilities against the rules for automated collaboration that are controlled by capabilities of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network.

In some implementations the electronic device detects a conflict between the new electronic device and the electronic device each requesting handling of a particular type of action. In these implementations the electronic device may resolve to the conflict in a variety of ways. For example the electronic device may resolve the detected conflict in a manner specified in the peer to peer intelligence for resolving conflicts. In this example the electronic device may receive from devices connected to the peer to peer network other than the electronic device and the new electronic device votes for how to resolve the detected conflict between the electronic device and the new electronic device and resolve the detected conflict based on the votes received from devices connected to the peer to peer network other than the electronic device and the new electronic device. Further in this example the electronic device and the new electronic device agree to abide by the votes of the other devices and the device receiving the most votes accepts responsibility for performing the particular type of action.

In another example the electronic device may access a first priority associated with the electronic device and a second priority associated with the new electronic device compare the first priority with the second priority and resolve the detected conflict based on the comparison of the first priority with the second priority. In this example the first and second priorities may be assigned by a user in the user profile and the electronic device resolves the conflict in favor of the device with the higher priority. The first and second priorities also may relate to timing priorities associated with how long ago the devices joined the peer to peer network. In some cases devices that joined the network more recently will be given higher priority and in other cases devices that have been part of the network for a longer duration will be given higher priority.

The electronic device detects a second event that results in performance of the particular type of action . The detection of the second event may be similar to the detection of the first event described above. The second event may be the same event as the first event but at a later time e.g. a first user input command to play a movie and a second user input command to play the same movie . Or the second event may result in the same type of action as the first event but be different than the first event e.g. receipt of a first electronic mail message that causes display of an alert interface and receipt of a second different electronic mail message that also causes display of the alert interface .

The electronic device collaborates with the new electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device handling at least a portion of the second event at the new electronic device by performing at least part of the particular type of action at the new electronic device . For instance the electronic device may collaborate with the new electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device handling all of the second event at the new electronic device by performing all of the particular type of action at the new electronic device. Alternatively in some examples the electronic device may collaborate with the new electronic device in a manner that results in the new electronic device handling a first portion of the second event at the new electronic device by performing a first part of the particular type of action at the new electronic device. In these examples the electronic device handles a second portion of the second event at the electronic device by performing a second part of the particular type of action at the electronic device. For instance the first and second events may relate to outputting content that has a video component and an audio component. The electronic device may output the video component and the audio component for the first event but output only the video component for the second event. For the second event the new electronic device outputs the audio component because the collaboration between the new electronic device and the electronic device revealed that the new electronic device has superior speakers as compared to the electronic device.

In some implementations the electronic device detects the first and second events itself e.g. receives the user input or message related to the first and second events and collaborates with the new electronic device by requesting that the new electronic device handle a part or all of the particular type of action. In other implementations another electronic device detects the first and second events e.g. receives the user input or message related to the first and second events and broadcasts the detection of the first and second events on the peer to peer network. In these implementations the electronic device collaborates with the new electronic device by simply taking no action related to the second event or handling only a part of the second event. The electronic device also may exchange communications with the new electronic device in collaborating how to handle the second event e.g. by sending a request to the new electronic device to handle the second event .

At a first time Time 1 in an initialization has been performed by a TV and a smartphone . In this regard the TV and the smartphone are already on the network and both are connected via an Ethernet Wi Fi or other wireless connections. The user profile resides on both the TV and the smartphone . The TV and the smartphone perform a negotiation process that involves exchanging capabilities with each other and assessing the exchanged capabilities against the user profile to determine which device should output video content and which device should output audio content. In this regard the TV sends to the smartphone a screen size of its display and a quality rating for its speakers and the smartphone sends to the TV a screen size of its display and a quality rating for its speakers. Each of the TV and the smartphone independently compare the received screen size and quality rating against its own screen size and quality rating and make a determination that the TV is the device that should output video content and audio content to best meet the desired functionality of the user profile because the TV has the larger screen size and higher quality speakers. The TV and the smartphone exchange communications to confirm the agreement that the TV is the device that should output video content and audio content.

At the first time the smartphone receives input to output a movie that includes video and audio. As shown based on the negotiation between the TV and the smartphone which may occur before or after the input to output the movie is received the smartphone determines that the TV should output video content and audio content for the movie and sends the video content and the audio content for the movie to the TV with a request to output the video content and the audio content. The TV receives the video content the audio content and the request and begins outputting the video and audio of the movie selected on the smartphone . Other than user input to define the user profile and select the movie on the smartphone all of the actions shown and described with respect to occur automatically without user input or intervention.

At a second time Time 2 in the TV and the smartphone discover the sound bar joining the peer to peer network. In this regard when the sound bar is connected to the network the TV and the smartphone simultaneously discover the sound bar and the sound bar simultaneously discovers the presence of the TV and the smartphone on the same network. The sound bar communicates to the TV and the smartphone its device and service descriptions while the TV and the smartphone communicate to the sound bar their respective device and service descriptions.

The TV the smartphone and the sound bar then perform a user profile synchronization process. During the user profile synchronization process the sound bar obtains the latest user profile from either the TV or the smartphone and stores a local copy of the user profile in its electronic storage.

The TV the smartphone and the sound bar then perform a status synchronization process. During the status synchronization process the TV updates the smartphone and the sound bar that it is currently playing video and audio content of a movie. The smartphone updates the TV and the sound bar that it is sending video and audio content of the movie to the TV . The sound bar updates the TV and the smartphone that it is on standby and not currently providing audio output.

The TV the smartphone and the sound bar then identify desired user functions. In this regard all three devices look up the user profile and recognize the desired user scenario is to output video content on the device that has the largest screen size and output audio content on the device that has the highest quality speaker.

The TV the smartphone and the sound bar then engage in peer negotiations. The TV sends to the smartphone and the sound bar a screen size of its display and a quality rating for its speakers the smartphone sends to the TV and the sound bar a screen size of its display and a quality rating for its speakers and the sound bar sends to the TV and the smartphone a quality rating for its speakers. Each of the TV the smartphone and the sound bar independently compare the received screen sizes and quality ratings against its own screen size and quality rating and make a determination that to best meet the desired functionality of the user profile the TV is the device that should output video content and the sound bar is the device that should output audio content because the TV has the largest screen size and the sound bar has the highest quality speakers. The TV the smartphone and the sound bar exchange communications to confirm the agreement that the TV is the device that should output video content and the sound bar is the device that should output audio content. Based on the agreement the smartphone maintains sending of video content for the movie to the TV and begins sending audio content for the movie to the sound bar . Alternatively the smartphone may send video and audio content to each of the TV and the sound bar and the TV may only output the video content based on the negotiated agreement and the sound bar may only output the audio content based on the negotiated agreement or the inability of the sound bar to output video content . As shown in based on the discovery of the sound bar the peer to peer network automatically without any user input changes the audio source of the movie being watched to the device that best meets the preferences defined in the user profile .

To the extent the movie was not playing when the sound bar joined the network and was discovered by the TV and the smartphone the TV the smartphone and the sound bar would perform a similar synchronization and negotiation process as described above but would not take any immediate action. Rather the TV the smartphone and the sound bar would be maintained in ready states and the next time a movie is selected for output on the smartphone the TV would automatically output the video content for the movie and the sound bar would automatically output the audio content for the movie.

The electronic devices connect to a peer to peer network and discover each other . For example at least two peer devices connect to the peer to peer network such that at least two peer devices are connected to the network. In some examples the peer to peer network is based on the UPnP and DLNA architecture and the connections are made in accordance with UPnP and DLNA protocols. In these examples a first peer device and a second peer device may utilize the underlying platform to discover the presence of each other and exchange data as part of the discovery and connection process.

The electronic devices automatically discover other peer devices and add the discovered peer devices to the network as they join . For instance other peer devices may be added to the network dynamically and discovered automatically by other peer devices already on the network. The automatic discovery may occur in accordance with UPnP and DLNA protocols.

The electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network synchronize status and update the user profile . For example all peer devices periodically synchronize status with each other and also synchronize user profile data. The user profile already may be entered by the user using a web interface via any of the peer devices equipped with web presentation functionality.

The electronic devices negotiate to determine how to deliver results according to the user profile . For instance peer devices relevant to currently desired user functions are identified and start to negotiate with one another to determine the optimal way to achieve the desired user functions.

Each of the electronic devices agrees to one or more specific tasks to deliver desired functionality . For example each relevant peer device agrees to a specific task it needs to perform in order to achieve the desired results. In this example the task may be acknowledging status reporting status performing an action or simply performing an idle task.

Each of the electronic devices executes the one or more specific tasks as needed . For instance each relevant peer device executes the task it has agreed to perform in the negotiation.

Each of the electronic devices reports status after a task and all peer devices update state variables . For example each relevant peer device reports the status of its task execution. In this example the reporting may be in the form of an event message or changes to one or more state variables.

The electronic devices jointly assess whether desired functionality has been achieved based on the reports . For instance each relevant peer device examines the status from other reporting peer devices and determines whether the desired user function has been completed.

The electronic devices jointly determine if desired functionality has been achieved based on the assessment . For example each relevant peer device reports the result of its determination of whether the desired user function has been completed and the relevant peer devices collectively determine whether the desired user functionality has been achieved. In this example the relevant peer devices may determine that the desired user functionality has been achieved when all or a majority of the relevant peer devices report a determination that the desired user functionality has been achieved. The relevant peer devices may determine that the desired user functionality has not been achieved when any or a majority of the relevant peer devices report a determination that the desired user functionality has not been achieved.

If the desired user function has not been completed then the relevant peer devices return to operations associated with reference numeral to resynchronize each other s status and begin an iterative cycle until the desired user function is completed.

If the desired user function has been completed each of the electronic devices resynchronizes status and awaits additional tasks . For instance the relevant peer devices that have jointly completed the task resynchronize completion status with all other relevant peer devices and return to standby states in anticipation of a new event or new device joining the network.

As shown a home environment includes three connected consumer electronic devices with each device having the peer to peer intelligence described throughout this disclosure embedded therein. The electronic devices are a TV with an Internet connection a DVR with an Internet connection and a camcorder with a wireless Internet connection.

In this example a user has already specified in his user profile the desired use scenarios when these three devices are connected. For instance illustrates an example user profile that defines the desired use scenarios when these three devices are connected. The desired user scenario is that when the camcorder is discovered on this home peer to peer network the user wants to suspend whatever is already playing on TV allow the DVR to temporarily start recording the program currently playing on TV and allow the video recorded in the camcorder to automatically stream to the TV . This scenario allows the user to immediately enjoy the video already recorded on his camcorder on the TV while redirecting and storing whatever television program he was watching to a DVR .

At a first time Time 1 in an initialization has been performed by the TV and the DVR . In this regard the TV and the DVR are already on the network and both are connected via an Ethernet Wi Fi or other wireless connections. The user has previously entered his user profile information via a web interface using TV . The user profile resides on both the TV and the DVR . At the first time the TV outputs live broadcast television programming and the DVR is maintained in a state where it is not recording the live broadcast television programming being output on the TV .

At a second time Time 2 in the TV and the DVR discover the camcorder joining the peer to peer network. In this regard when the camcorder is brought to the vicinity of the network and connected to the network via a Wi Fi connection the TV and the DVR simultaneously discover the presence of the camcorder and the camcorder simultaneously discovers the presence of the TV and the DVR on the same network. The camcorder communicates to the TV and the DVR its device and service descriptions while the TV and the DVR communicate to the camcorder their respective device and service descriptions.

The TV the DVR and the camcorder then perform a user profile synchronization process. During the user profile synchronization process the camcorder obtains the latest user profile from either the TV or the DVR and stores a local copy of the user profile in its electronic storage.

The TV the DVR and the camcorder then perform a status synchronization process. During the status synchronization process the TV updates the camcorder and the DVR that it is currently playing a particular television program. The DVR updates the TV and the camcorder that it is on standby and there are no active recording sessions.

The TV the DVR and the camcorder then identify desired user functions. In this regard all three devices look up the user profile and recognize the desired user scenario is to play the camcorder video on the TV as the top priority and that any program currently playing on the TV is to be preempted and redirected to the DVR .

The TV the DVR and the camcorder then engage in peer negotiations. The camcorder negotiates with the TV to determine when the camcorder may begin streaming its video recording to the TV . The TV negotiates with the camcorder that it is currently playing a television program and requests the camcorder to hold its request. The TV negotiates with the DVR to begin recording the currently playing television program on the DVR . The DVR replies that it is currently idle and is able to immediately accept the request from the TV . The DVR starts recording the currently playing television program.

The TV then replies to the camcorder that it is now available to play video and the camcorder immediately starts streaming its video recording to the TV . During the desired user scenario as shown in at Time 2 the TV and the camcorder continuously monitor the progress of video streaming from the camcorder to the TV including monitoring any possible user input such as fast forward pause stop or rewind.

In some examples the camcorder detects that it has reached the end of the recording and updates the TV and the DVR of this condition. In these examples the TV negotiates with the DVR to start playing on the TV the preempted television program recorded on the DVR . The DVR replies to the request of the TV and begins playing on the TV the television program just recorded.

At a third time Time 3 in the camcorder exits the network. The TV and the DVR both detect the departure of the camcorder and remove the presence of the camcorder from their respective internal data stores. If the camcorder reached the end of the recording prior to exiting the network the TV simply continues to output the recorded television program from the DVR and the DVR continues to record the television program until the TV reaches live broadcast television programming or another action is taken to stop recording e.g. the recording is stopped by user input or the user changes the television channel . If the camcorder had not reached the end of the recording prior to exiting the network and the TV was outputting video streamed from the camcorder at the time of the camcorder exiting the network the TV negotiates with the DVR to start playing on the TV the preempted television program recorded on the DVR . The DVR replies to the request of the TV and begins playing on the TV the television program just recorded while continuing to record the television program until the TV reaches live broadcast television programming or another action is taken to stop recording e.g. the recording is stopped by user input or the user changes the television channel .

As shown a home environment includes four connected consumer electronic devices with each device having the peer to peer intelligence described throughout this disclosure embedded therein. The devices include a digital frame with an Internet connection a PC server with a music library and an Internet connection a digital camera with a wireless Internet connection and a stereo system with an Internet connection.

A user has already specified in his user profile the desired use scenarios when these four devices are connected. For example the user profile shown in is an example of a user profile that defines the desired use scenarios when these four devices are connected. A desired user scenario is that when the digital camera is discovered on the home network the user wants to automatically create a slide show consisting of photos stored in the digital camera and music stored in the PC server and play the resulting slide show using the digital frame and the stereo system .

At a first time Time 1 in the digital frame the PC server and stereo system are already on the network and all are connected via an Ethernet connection. A user has previously entered his user profile information e.g. the user profile in via a web interface using the digital frame . The user profile resides on all three devices. At the first time Time 1 in the PC server and the stereo system are maintained in idle states and monitoring for tasks on the peer to peer network. The digital frame outputs an image stored in memory of the digital frame .

At a second time Time 2 in the digital camera is brought to the vicinity of the network and connected to the network via a Wi Fi connection. At the second time Time 2 in the digital frame the PC server and the stereo system simultaneously discover the presence of the digital camera and the digital camera simultaneously discovers the presence of the other three devices on the same network. The digital camera communicates to the other three devices its device and service descriptions while the other three devices communicate to the digital camera their respective device and service descriptions.

The digital camera also obtains the latest user profile from the digital frame the stereo system or the PC server and stores a copy of the user profile in its storage. The digital frame updates the digital camera the stereo system and the PC server that it is currently outputting a stored image as a default operation. The PC server and the stereo system update the other devices on the peer to peer network that they are in an idle state.

The PC server the digital frame the stereo system and the digital camera then identify desired user functions. In this regard all four devices look up the user profile and recognize the desired user scenario is to create a slide show by fetching the photos from the digital camera fetching music from the PC server music library playing the slide show of photos on the digital frame and using the stereo system to play background music from the PC server .

The PC server the digital frame the stereo system and the digital camera then engage in peer negotiation. The digital camera requests the digital frame to download all photos for the slideshow to the digital frame when it is ready. Alternatively the digital camera may send photos one at a time to the digital frame as the slideshow progresses until there are no more photos to send. The digital frame requests the digital camera to be on standby. The digital frame looks up the user profile to determine the type of music the user desires as background music for the slide show. The user profile indicates that the user has indicated a preference to follow a current seasonal theme. The digital frame determines that Valentine s Day is just around the corner e.g. the nearest holiday to the current date and the digital frame requests the PC server to identify love songs available for music streaming. The PC server looks up the metadata in its music library identifies a series of love songs and gets them ready for streaming to the stereo system .

The stereo system acknowledges to the PC server that it is ready to begin streaming music from the PC server . The PC server acknowledges to the digital frame that it is ready to begin. The digital frame acknowledges to the digital camera to begin downloading photos to the digital frame .

As shown a slide show based on seasonal music is generated as photos from the digital camera are displayed on the digital frame while background music consisting of love songs is played over the stereo system . All four devices continuously monitor the progress of photo downloading and music streaming including monitoring any possible user input such as fast forward pause stop or rewind.

The digital frame detects that it has reached the end of the photos and notifies the PC server and the stereo system of this condition. The digital frame stops the slide show the PC server stops streaming music and the stereo system stops playing music as the slide show is concluded.

At a third time Time 3 in the digital camera exits the network. The digital frame the PC server and the stereo system all detect the departure of the digital camera and remove the presence of the digital camera from their respective internal data store. As shown the PC server and the stereo system each return to an idle state and the digital frame returns to outputting the image stored in the memory of the digital frame .

As shown a home environment includes four connected consumer electronic devices with each device having the peer to peer intelligence described throughout this disclosure embedded therein. The embedded intelligence may include software firmware an application or any other form of programmable instructions. The four devices include an HDMI dongle connected to a TV the TV Internet connected a smartphone Internet connected and a laptop computer Internet connected .

A user has already specified in his user profile the desired wake up service scenarios when the smartphone alarm is triggered Monday through Friday in the morning. For example the user profile shown in is an example of a user profile that defines the desired use scenarios when the smartphone alarm is triggered Monday through Friday in the morning. The desired user scenario is that when the alarm clock is triggered in the smartphone in the morning Monday through Friday the TV is automatically turned on and starts to play the user s photos and videos embedded in the user s social network e.g. Facebook newsfeed on the TV followed by a display on the TV of the user s calendar for the day followed by a display on the TV of a power point presentation associated with a particular meeting scheduled for that date.

At a first time Time 1 in the HDMI dongle and the laptop computer are already on the network and all are connected via an Ethernet or a wireless connection. The user has previously entered his user profile information e.g. the user profile shown in via a web interface such as via the laptop computer . The user profile resides on the HDMI dongle and the laptop computer . At the first time Time 1 in the HDMI dongle and the laptop computer each are in an idle state monitoring for tasks in the peer to peer network. The TV is in an off state and not currently an active device on the peer to peer network. The smartphone is not currently an active device on the peer to peer network and is maintained in a sleep state that monitors for an alarm to be triggered which awakens the smartphone from the sleep state.

At a second time Time 2 in the alarm clock on the smartphone is triggered in the morning any time Monday through Friday. Based on the alarm clock trigger the smartphone awakens and detects the presence of the other two devices e.g. the HDMI dongle and the laptop in the same network and each of the other two devices also simultaneously detects the addition of the smartphone to the network. The smartphone communicates to the other two devices its device and service descriptions and the application it is currently running while the HDMI dongle and the laptop computer communicate to the smartphone their respective device and service descriptions.

The smartphone the HDMI dongle and the laptop computer then perform a user profile synchronization process. During the user profile synchronization process the smartphone obtains the latest user profile from either the HDMI dongle or the laptop and stores a local copy of the user profile in its storage.

The smartphone the HDMI dongle and the laptop computer then identify desired user functions. All three devices look up the user profile and recognize the desired user scenario is to automatically turn on the TV and automatically play in reverse chronological order all photos and videos included in the user s social network e.g. Facebook newsfeed followed by the user s calendar for the current date followed by any power point presentations scheduled to be presented in one of the meetings set on the user s calendar for the current date.

All of the devices also check the current date and time and agree that the current date and time meet the timing requirements for the wake up service and agree to proceed. Based on the agreement the HDMI dongle automatically turns on the TV via for example the Consumer Electronics Control CEC interface on the HDMI interface. The CEC capability is available for example in HDMI dongles such as the Google Chromecast device. The TV then joins the network upon being powered on. The TV obtains the latest user profile from either the HDMI dongle the laptop or the smartphone and stores a local copy of the user profile in its storage.

The smartphone the HDMI dongle the laptop computer and the TV then engage in peer negotiations. The HDMI dongle determines when it is ready to login to the user s social network e.g. Facebook account and retrieve photos and stream videos from the user s social network e.g. Facebook account according to reverse chronological order. Social network platforms such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Pinterest etc. offer a rich set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs available to retrieve photos and videos uploaded by users and shown in the user s newsfeed on the user s social network. The HDMI dongle informs the TV the smartphone and the laptop of its current state. The TV informs the HDMI dongle that it is idle and ready to accept content from the HDMI dongle .

The HDMI dongle then notifies the smartphone it is now playing photos and streaming videos from the user s social network e.g. Facebook account and the smartphone immediately launches a remote control application to help the user navigate the photo and video playback on the TV via the HDMI dongle .

The HDMI dongle continuously monitors the progress of photo playback and video streaming from the user s social network e.g. Facebook account including monitoring any possible user input such as fast forward pause stop or rewind commands sent from the smartphone .

At an end of the social network newsfeed the HDMI dongle detects that it has reached the end of the user s photos or video streams and updates the TV the smartphone and the laptop of this condition. The HDMI dongle recognizes from the user s profile that the next item to be displayed on the TV is the user s calendar. The HDMI dongle notifies the laptop computer which upon receiving notification from the HDMI dongle retrieves the user s calendar from for example calendar software on a computer such as Microsoft Outlook. The laptop computer renders the user s calendar in a format displayable on the TV and sends the rendered calendar image from the laptop computer to the HDMI dongle which in turn causes the calendar image to be displayed on the TV . After a predetermined time e.g. two minutes the HDMI dongle and the laptop computer determine that a particular power point presentation is associated with a calendar event and the HDMI dongle notifies the smartphone to change its remote control from a TV style remote control to a power point style remote control. Meanwhile the laptop computer retrieves the particular power point presentation from the disk storage of the laptop and renders it into a slide show format suitable for display on the TV . The laptop computer streams the rendered power point page by page to the HDMI dongle for display on the TV subject to the control of the playback by the power point style remote control now operating on the smartphone . When the last page of the power point is reached the laptop computer notifies the HDMI dongle of this condition and the HDMI dongle in turn turns off the TV and notifies the smartphone . The TV is now turned off and removed from the network. The smartphone upon receiving notification of the end of the power point presentation terminates the power point style remote control application. With the TV off the network the smartphone the HDMI dongle and the laptop computer each return to their original state prior to the invocation of the wake up service.

In some implementations a peer to peer network is capable of supporting more than one user. That is each user may have his private user profile and each peer device may be capable of storing multiple user profiles for different users such as different members of a family in a living room. Multiple user support enables friends or family members to share the same home entertainment devices in a property e.g. a home or in a particular room of the property e.g. the living room of the home . Each user profile may be uniquely identified by an alphanumeric user name. When more than one user profile is created the active user may use his or her web browser to select which user profile to use.

The electronic device detects multiple user profiles on peer devices connected to the peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device detects that profiles with different user identifiers are present in the electronic storage of the electronic device and or in user profile information exchanged with other peer devices in a user profile synchronization process.

The electronic device analyzes the rules specified in the multiple user profiles for conflicts . For example for each user profile the electronic device compares the rules preferences in that user profile against the rules preferences in the other user profiles and determines whether any rules preferences conflict. In this example conflicts may exist when the user profiles specify different preferred output devices specify different music or seasonal preferences and or define automated actions that conflict e.g. different wake up services .

The electronic device negotiates with peer devices connected to the peer to peer network to determine how to handle identified conflicts . If no conflicts are detected the electronic device merely uses all of the multiple user profiles in providing the preferred user experience for all users without conflict. If conflicts are detected the electronic device may identify priorities associated with the multiple user profiles and use the identified priorities to resolve the conflicts.

In some implementations although each device in the network may store multiple user profiles with the highest priority profile superseding all lower priority profiles there may be situations that arise when the user scenario of a high priority profile does not conflict with the user scenario of a lower priority profile. In this case the devices may intelligently consult and negotiate with one another and jointly determine that the network can simultaneously support more than one active profile with different priorities.

For example illustrate two profiles one for user John and one for user John Jr. The priority of the profile for John is higher than the priority of the profile for John Jr. However when user John is engaged in a user scenario as described in above and at the same time user John Jr. takes his smartphone 3 to the vicinity of his tablet 3 the devices on the network determine that the smartphone 3 and tablet 3 do not conflict with the operations being performed for user John and hence the smartphone 3 and tablet 3 after seeking permission from the rest of the devices on the network and consulting the user profiles for John and for John Jr. may begin a separate operation according to the user scenario described in the profile for John Jr. where the photos taken on John Jr. s smartphone 3 are automatically played on the tablet 3.

The electronic device handles tasks performed by one or more peer devices in the peer to peer network based on the negotiation . For instance the electronic device handles tasks in a manner that complies with the resolution of the conflicts in the negotiation.

At a first time Time 1 in an initialization has been performed by a first smartphone a second smartphone a TV a tablet and a sound bar . In this regard the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar are already on the network and all are connected via an Ethernet or Wi Fi connection.

The first user profile is maintained on the first smartphone and the first smartphone attempts to register the first user profile on the peer to peer network any time the first smartphone joins the peer to peer network. The second user profile is maintained on the second smartphone and the second smartphone attempts to register the second user profile on the peer to peer network any time the second smartphone joins the peer to peer network. In this regard at the first time Time 1 in the first smartphone has attempted to register the first user profile on the peer to peer network and the second smartphone has attempted to register the second user profile on the peer to peer network such that two profiles exist on the peer to peer network and are stored on each of the peer devices connected to the peer to peer network.

At the first time the second smartphone receives input to output a movie that includes video and audio. Because the second smartphone received the request the second smartphone messages the other peer devices of the task to output the movie with an indication that the task is associated with the Son user and the second user profile should be used for handling the task as long as it does not conflict with the first user profile which has the higher priority. The first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar automatically engage in negotiation to determine how to handle the task of outputting audio and video of the movie. Based on exchanged device capabilities and statuses of the devices connected to the network each device independently determines that the TV is the device with the largest screen size and is the device preferred for video output according to the second user profile and determines that the sound bar is the device with the highest quality speakers and is the device preferred for audio output according to the second user profile . Because the first user profile has a higher priority than the second user profile the devices consult the first user profile to determine whether the selection of the TV as the preferred video output device and the selection of the sound bar as the preferred audio output device conflict with the preferences of the first user profile . Because the first user profile defines the TV as the preferred video output device has no preference for audio output and the statuses exchanged among the devices in the peer to peer network do not indicate that the TV or the sound bar are performing tasks for the Dad user at the present time each device determines that the selection of the TV as the preferred video output device and the selection of the sound bar as the preferred audio output device do not conflict with the preferences of the first user profile . The devices connected to the peer to peer network then complete the negotiation by exchanging messages indicating the determinations made and reach an agreement that the TV is the preferred video output device and the sound bar is the preferred audio output device.

As shown in based on the negotiation and agreement the second smartphone sends the video content for the movie to the TV with a request to output the video content and sends the audio content for the movie to the sound bar with a request to output the audio content. The TV receives the video content and the request and begins outputting the video of the movie selected on the second smartphone . The sound bar receives the audio content and the request and begins outputting the audio of the movie selected on the second smartphone . Other than user input to define the second user profile and select the movie on the second smartphone all of the actions shown and described with respect to occur automatically without user input or intervention.

At a second time Time 2 in the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar discover the digital camera joining the peer to peer network. In this regard when the digital camera is connected to the network the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar simultaneously discover the digital camera and the digital camera simultaneously discovers the presence of the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar on the same network. The digital camera communicates to the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar its device and service descriptions while the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar communicate to the digital camera their respective device and service descriptions.

The first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet the sound bar and the digital camera then perform a user profile synchronization process. During the user profile synchronization process the digital camera obtains the first user profile and the second user profile from either the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet or the sound bar and stores local copies of the first user profile and the second user profile in its electronic storage. For instance the digital camera may receive the first user profile from the first smartphone and receive the second user profile from the second smartphone as part of the first smartphone and the second smartphone attempting to register their profiles with any new devices that join the peer to peer network.

The first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet the sound bar and the digital camera then perform a status synchronization process. During the status synchronization process the TV updates the first smartphone the second smartphone the tablet the sound bar and the digital camera that it is currently playing video content of a movie. The sound bar updates the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the digital camera that it is currently playing audio content of the movie. The second smartphone updates the first smartphone the TV the tablet the sound bar and the digital camera that it is sending video content of the movie to the TV and audio content of the movie to the sound bar . The first smartphone the tablet and the digital camera update the devices on the network that they are each on standby and not currently performing a task.

The first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet the sound bar and the digital camera then identify desired user functions. In this regard all of the devices look up the first user profile and the second user profile recognize the desired user scenario for the first user profile is to output images from the digital camera on the TV and recognize the desired user scenario for the second user profile is to continue outputting video content of the movie on the TV and audio content of the movie on the sound bar . The devices identify that the two desired user scenarios conflict and determine that the desired user scenario for the first user profile should be executed as having the higher priority.

The devices then identify the next best user scenario for the second user profile . In this regard the devices determine that the audio content of the movie may continue to be output on the sound bar because that action does not conflict with the desired user scenario for the first user profile . Because the TV is being used to execute the desired user scenario for the first user profile and is thus not available to execute the desired user scenario for the second user profile the devices assess the screen sizes of the devices other than the TV and based on the assessment determine that the tablet has the next largest screen size and should be used as the video output device other than the TV that most closely matches the preference of the second user profile . The devices connected to the peer to peer network then complete the negotiation by exchanging messages indicating the determinations made and reach an agreement that the TV is to output images from the digital camera the tablet is to output video content of the movie and the sound bar is to output audio content of the movie.

As shown in based on the negotiation and agreement the digital camera sends images to the TV with a request to output the images. The second smartphone sends the video content for the movie to the tablet with a request to output the video content and sends the audio content for the movie to the sound bar with a request to output the audio content. The TV receives the images from the digital camera and the request and begins outputting the images. The tablet receives the video content and the request and begins outputting the video of the movie selected on the second smartphone . The sound bar receives the audio content and the request and continues outputting the audio of the movie selected on the second smartphone .

In addition to the automated change of the desired user functions driven by the camera action defined in the first user profile that has the highest priority the devices connected to the peer to peer network recognize that the desired user scenario for the second user profile has been preempted and determine to output messages based on the recognition. For instance as shown the TV may recognize that display of the Son s video content of the movie has been preempted by the automated display of the images of the camera in accordance with the Dad s preferred camera action. Based on this recognition the TV may output a message indicating that the output of the camera images is blocking the Son s video and provide a control that enables the camera images to be switched to the tablet . In this regard the Dad user is given the option of easily allowing the Son s video to play in this instance and still view the camera images on a display with a larger size such as the tablet . The TV may only allow the switch to occur if the user input to complete the switch is received from the first smartphone which is the device associated with the Dad user. Based on receiving input from the first smartphone to complete the switch the TV initiates a new negotiation process with the devices connected to the peer to peer network which results in the TV outputting the video of the movie and the tablet outputting the camera images.

In addition the TV may present the Dad user with the option of demoting the preferred camera action such that the preferred camera action occurs unless it conflicts with preferred video output of another user profile on the peer to peer network. For example as shown the TV may provide a control that enables the Dad user to give video rules priority over camera action rules. In this example the TV may only allow the update in priority to occur if the user input to update the priority is received from the first smartphone which is the device associated with the Dad user. Based on receiving input from the first smartphone to update the priority the TV changes the first user profile to indicate the change in priority of camera actions relative to video output preferences and sends the update to the other devices connected to the peer to peer network. Based on the change the preferred camera action of the Dad user automatically occurs unless it conflicts with a video output preference of another user profile that is being used in a desired user scenario that includes video output at the time of the camera action. The first user profile continues to have higher priority than the second user profile in areas other than the desired camera action in the first user profile relative to the video output preference in the second user profile . Other than the described user input to define the user profiles and select actions controls all of the actions shown and described with respect to occur automatically without user input or intervention.

The electronic device discovers a new electronic device that has a user profile associated with a network other than the peer to peer network . For example the electronic device discovers a new electronic device joining the network and performs a user profile synchronization process with the new electronic device. In this example the electronic device detects that the user profile of the new electronic device exchanged in the user profile synchronization process is associated with a different network and determines that the new electronic device is a guest to the peer to peer network.

The electronic device queries whether the new electronic device would like to accept the registered profile for the peer to peer network or negotiate a temporary guest profile . For instance the electronic device sends a message to the new electronic device asking the new electronic device whether the new electronic device would like to accept the registered profile for the peer to peer network or negotiate a temporary guest profile. The new electronic device may respond either accepting the registered profile in which case the new electronic device complies with the registered profile or requesting that a temporary guest profile be negotiated.

The electronic device based on a request to negotiate a temporary guest profile accesses information from the user profile of the new electronic device . For example the electronic device may receive the entire user profile from the new electronic device. In another example the electronic device may receive only a portion of the user profile from the new electronic device. In this example the new electronic device may have privacy settings defined that indicate which portions of the user profile to share when the new electronic device is a guest of another peer to peer network.

The electronic device analyzes the accessed information from the user profile of the new electronic device and the registered profile with respect to guest profile rules defined in the registered profile . For instance the electronic device compares the information from the user profile of the new electronic device and the registered profile against each other detects conflicts and resolves the conflicts by consulting the guest profile rules defined in the registered profile. The guest profile rules also may identify portions of the registered profile that cannot be changed in negotiating a temporary guest profile and the electronic device may ignore the portions of the information from the user profile of the new electronic device that correspond to the portions of the registered profile that cannot be changed.

The electronic device based on the analysis defines a temporary guest profile for the peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device determines and stores a temporary guest profile that complies with the guest profile rules and otherwise best meets the preferences and user scenarios desired by the user of the electronic device and the guest user of the new electronic device.

The electronic device registers for the peer to peer network the temporary guest profile . For example the electronic device stores the temporary guest profile as a registered version and sends the temporary guest profile to other devices connected to the peer to peer network. In this example the electronic device may make the guest profile temporary by assigning a time limit to the guest profile and or indicating that the guest profile becomes invalid upon the new electronic device leaving the peer to peer network.

The electronic device detects the new electronic device leaving the peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device detects that the new electronic device has disconnected from the peer to peer network. The discovery of the new electronic device leaving the peer to peer network may be performed in accordance with the UPnP and DLNA architectures.

The electronic device based on detection that new electronic device has left the peer to peer network removes the temporary guest profile and reverts to the previously registered profile . For example the electronic device deletes the temporary guest profile from storage and sends messages to other devices connected to the peer to peer network indicating that the temporary guest profile is no longer valid. In this example the electronic device may send messages to the other devices connected to the peer to peer network asking the other devices to revert to the previously stored user profile and or requesting that another user profile synchronization process be performed.

As shown in an initialization has been performed by a first smartphone a second smartphone a third smartphone and a stereo system . In this regard the first smartphone the second smartphone the third smartphone and the stereo system are already on the network and all are connected via an Ethernet or Wi Fi connection.

The first user profile is maintained on the first smartphone the second user profile is maintained on the second smartphone and the third user profile is maintained on the third smartphone . During a user profile synchronization process the devices recognize that the third user profile is associated with a different network e.g. the network in the neighbor s home than the current peer to peer network to which the devices are connected. Based on the recognition that the third user profile is associated with a different network the devices determine that the third smartphone is a guest device and exchange communications regarding whether a temporary guest profile should be established. Because the first smartphone and the second smartphone are non guest members of the peer to peer network the first smartphone and the second smartphone negotiate with one another to determine whether a guest profile should be allowed. In this regard the first smartphone and the second smartphone access guest profile rules defined for the current peer to peer network and determine that guest profiles are allowed as long as certain rules are followed. Based on the determination that guest profiles are allowed the first smartphone or the second smartphone send the guest profile rules to the third smartphone and initiate a negotiation of a temporary guest profile among the first smartphone the second smartphone and the third smartphone . Alternatively in some examples the first smartphone or the second smartphone may request the third user profile from the third smartphone and negotiate the temporary guest profile themselves without input from the third smartphone . In these examples the first smartphone or the second smartphone may simply send the temporary guest profile to the third smartphone for use after the negotiation completes.

During negotiation of the temporary guest profile the devices involved in the negotiation exchange profile information for all of the user profiles under consideration in developing the temporary guest profile e.g. the first user profile the second user profile and the third user profile in . Each device evaluates the exchanged user profile information against the guest profile rules and attempts to determine a temporary guest profile that best meets the preferences of all users while complying with the guest profile rules .

As shown the guest profile rules indicate that music preferences of guest devices should be accepted unless the music preference corresponds to rap music. The guest profile rules prevent any update to the preferred audio output source and allow an update to the preferred audio caption display.

In evaluating user profile information against the guest profile rules the devices involved in the negotiation arrive at a temporary guest profile assigned to the network ABC. The temporary guest profile includes music preferences of rock jazz and country. The rock portion of the music preferences was taken from the first user profile the jazz portion of the music preferences was taken from the second user profile and the country portion of the music preferences was taken from the third user profile . The rap portion of the music preferences in the third user profile was excluded from the temporary guest profile based on the guest profile rules . The temporary guest profile also includes a preferred audio output device of the stereo system which was determined based on the first user profile and the second user profile . The preferred audio output device of the third smartphone from the third user profile was ignored in determining the temporary guest profile based on the guest profile rules preventing any update to the preferred audio output source. The temporary guest profile further includes a preferred audio caption display device of all phones connected to the network which was determined based on the first user profile the second user profile and the third user profile . The third user profile was taken into consideration because the guest profile rules allow an update to the preferred audio caption display device. Because the second user profile and the third user profile each define an audio caption display preference of a phone the phone preference trumps the audio caption display preference of a TV defined by the first user profile . Without the presence of the third user profile the audio caption display preference of the network would have a conflict between the first user profile and the second user profile which would be resolved using any of the techniques described throughout this disclosure for resolving conflicts.

After the temporary guest profile has been negotiated the temporary guest profile is temporarily registered on the peer to peer network and tasks related to the peer to peer network are carried out in accordance with the temporary guest profile . For example the first smartphone the second smartphone the third smartphone and the stereo system all store a copy of the temporary guest profile and begin taking action in accordance with the temporary guest profile . In this example as shown in the stereo system the preferred audio output source automatically begins cycling through rock jazz and country music stations in accordance with the music preferences defined in the temporary guest profile . In addition because the temporary guest profile includes a preferred audio caption display device of all phones connected to the network the stereo system delivers audio caption information to each of the first smartphone the second smartphone and the third smartphone for display.

The peer to peer network also is able to automatically process tasks initiated by guest devices in accordance with the temporary guest profile . As shown in the third smartphone receives a request to play a song Song 2 that is stored on the third smartphone . Based on the request the third smartphone determines that the stereo system is the preferred audio output source on the peer to peer network and begins streaming audio content of the selected song to the stereo system with a request to output the streaming audio content. The stereo system receives the streaming audio content and the request and begins outputting the streaming audio content. In addition the third smartphone determines that the preferred audio caption display device is all phones connected to the peer to peer network. In response to that determination the third smartphone outputs the audio caption information for the selected song on its own display and sends the audio caption information for the selected song to the first smartphone and the second smartphone . The first smartphone and the second smartphone receive the audio caption information from the third smartphone and output the received audio caption information on their own displays.

With this type of guest profile configuration the peer to peer network may provide intelligent and automated coordination of devices when guests come to the property in which the peer to peer network is located. When the guest device leaves the network the temporary guest profile is removed and the peer to peer network reverts to the previously registered profile or resynchronizes the user profiles of the devices that remain connected to the network when the guest leaves. Other than the described user input to define the user profiles rules and select actions controls all of the actions shown and described with respect to occur automatically without user input or intervention.

The electronic device monitors over time use of electronic devices on the peer to peer network . For example the electronic device tracks its own actions on the peer to peer network and also receives and tracks status updates that describe actions completed by other devices connected to the peer to peer network. In this example the electronic device tracks the actions relative to date and time and generates a log descriptive of the actions taken by devices on the peer to peer network over a period of time.

The electronic device analyzes preferences of one or more users of the peer to peer network a current date and time capabilities of devices in the peer to peer network and or monitored use of the devices and based on the analysis determines a user specific experience for a user of the peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device compares the preferences of one or more users of the peer to peer network the current date and time the capabilities of devices in the peer to peer network and the monitored use of the devices and determines whether the comparison indicates that a user specific experience is possible for the user. The user specific experience may be a user specific recommendation related to how to better use the devices connected to the peer to peer network. In addition the user specific experience may be a user specific action that the devices automatically take on the peer to peer network.

In some examples although the user profile provides a general description of desired user scenarios the peer devices may be equipped with more intelligence to enhance the user s media consumption and sharing experience not explicitly set out in the user profile. For example the profile for John in generally describes his music preference as follows Use Seasonal Theme Yes enables themes for Christmas Thanksgiving Valentine Halloween etc. Music Preference Classic Light Rock Jazz and Mood Preference Happy .

The above parameters set out some general guidelines on the user s music preference without explicitly dictating a particular set of songs to play. This provides some leeway for the peer devices to generate a specific user experience based on an analysis of the current time date user s mood and genre and metadata associated with the user s music collection. The peer devices may be able to based on the results of the analysis generate a specific music playlist which is suitable for the user s currently stated mood season for example happy and romantic songs if current date is Valentine s day and other factors. The peer devices may be equipped with the ability to receive and process analytics data on user s viewing or listening behavior for example songs repeated songs skipped etc. as reported by a peer remote control device and automatically adjust the process used to generate playlists for the user.

The electronic device performs an action based on the user specific experience . For instance the electronic device may provide a user specific recommendation and or initiate an automated action on the peer to peer network.

In an initialization has been performed by a first smartphone a second smartphone a TV a tablet and a sound bar . In this regard the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar are connected to the network and store the user profile . The first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar perform a negotiation process that involves exchanging capabilities with each other and assessing the exchanged capabilities against the user profile to determine which device should output video content and which device should output audio content. The first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar agree that the TV should be the device to output video and audio content in accordance with the user profile .

However the first smartphone the second smartphone the TV the tablet and the sound bar also agree that the TV has the best video output capability of the devices on the network and the sound bar has the best audio output capability of the devices on the network. Based on the determinations that the TV should be the device to output video content and that the TV has the best video output capability the devices collectively determine that the video output source defined in the user profile maximizes the display capabilities of the peer to peer network and no recommendation should be made related to the video output source preference. However based on the determinations that the TV should be the device to output audio content and that the sound bar has the best audio output capability the devices collectively determine that the audio output source defined in the user profile does not maximize the audio capabilities of the peer to peer network and a recommendation should be made related to the audio output source preference.

Based on the collective decision to make a recommendation related to the audio output source preference the television automatically without user input displays a message indicating that the user profile requires audio output from the TV but that the sound bar has superior audio output capability. The TV also displays a first control that enables a user to change the preferred audio output source setting in the user profile to the sound bar and displays a second control that enables a user to remove the sound bar from the network e.g. if the user does not like audio from the sound bar or the sound bar has become obsolete . Based on user input selecting the first control the TV updates its local copy of the user profile and sends changes to the user profile to the other devices connected to the peer to peer network. Based on user input selecting the second control the TV updates its peer to peer network configuration data to remove the sound bar from the network and sends requests to the other devices connected to the peer to peer network to remove the sound bar . Using the techniques described with respect to the devices of the peer to peer network may effectively collaborate to assist a user in maximizing the capabilities of his or her network and or manage devices connected to the network.

In an initialization has been performed by an alarm clock a TV and a stereo system . In this regard the alarm clock the TV and the stereo system are connected to the network and store the user profile . The alarm clock the TV and the stereo system exchange status communications related to tasks performed on the peer to peer network and track over time actions taken by each device in relation to the time and date of the action. Over time each device or one device agreed upon by the devices connected to the network develops a log of actions taken by the devices over time. Each device or the one device agreed upon by the devices connected to the network then periodically analyzes the log in an attempt to detect a pattern of actions that may be leveraged to provide enhanced convenience to a user of the peer to peer network. When one of the electronic devices detects a pattern that electronic device reports the detected pattern to the other electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and the electronic devices connected to the network negotiate to determine whether to accept the pattern and what action to take if the pattern is accepted.

In the example shown in the alarm clock the TV and the stereo system have detected a pattern that on Tuesday and Thursday mornings the stereo system is turned and the TV is turned on and muted on average ten minutes after the alarm clock is turned off. The alarm clock the TV and the stereo system assess whether the detected pattern relates to any of the automated actions the peer to peer network is able to perform. In this example the alarm clock the TV and the stereo system determine that the detected pattern relates to a wakeup action that the peer to peer network is able to perform since the actions occur in response to an alarm clock event. Accordingly the alarm clock the TV and the stereo system determine to automatically update the user profile to include a wakeup action that corresponds to the detected pattern. As shown the user profile is modified to an updated user profile to include a wake up action that corresponds to the detected pattern. The updated user profile is registered on the network and the alarm clock the TV and the stereo system begin using the updated user profile for automated collaboration. In this regard as shown in on Tuesday and Thursday mornings the alarm clock reports its status of being turned off to the TV and the stereo system . The TV automatically turns on with the volume muted ten minutes after it receives the turned off status from the alarm clock . The stereo system automatically turns on and tunes to a rock station ten minutes after it receives the turned off status from the alarm clock . The stereo system tunes to a rock station based on the music preference in the updated user profile being a preference for rock music. The update to the user profile and performance of the wakeup action described with respect to occur without user input or intervention.

The electronic device determines a location of a user within a property in which the peer to peer network is located . For example the electronic device may determine the location of the user within the property based on output of sensors that are connected to the peer to peer network. In this example the peer to peer network may include one or more presence sensors e.g. motion sensors that detect presence of users in the property. The presence sensors may be assigned to specific locations in the property and may be defined as being located near certain devices in the peer to peer network.

In some implementations the electronic device may determine the location of the user within the property based on pinging communications exchanged with a mobile device of the user. In these implementations the mobile device of the user may send communications over a short range wireless communication protocol the other devices on the peer to peer network may or may not receive the communications and the other devices on the peer to peer network negotiate with each other to determine which devices the mobile device of the user is near based on which devices received communications and the timing of receipt of those communications.

The electronic device determines how to handle a task based on the user profile and the determined location . For example the electronic device determines which devices the user that is experiencing the action performed by the peer to peer network is near and determines how to handle a task based on the user profile and the devices that are near the user. In this example the electronic device only may consider the devices that are near the user in assessing the user profile and determining how to handle a particular task.

The electronic device handles the task based on the determination . For instance the electronic device handles the task using one or more devices that are near the user associated with the task.

Automated collaboration of devices in the peer to peer network is governed by a user profile that indicates that video content on any device connected to the peer to peer network is to be output by the device on the peer to peer network that has the largest screen size. The user profile also indicates that audio content on any device connected to the peer to peer network is to be output by the device on the peer to peer network that has the highest quality speaker.

In an initialization has been performed by a first motion sensor a second motion sensor a first TV a stereo system a second TV and a tablet . In this regard the first motion sensor the second motion sensor the first TV the stereo system the second TV and the tablet are connected to the network. The user profile resides on the first motion sensor the second motion sensor the first TV the stereo system the second TV and the tablet . The first motion sensor the second motion sensor the first TV the stereo system the second TV and the tablet perform a negotiation process that involves exchanging capabilities with each other and assessing the exchanged capabilities against the user profile to determine which device should output video content and which device should output audio content. In this regard the devices exchange screen size information and quality ratings for audio output capability. Each device independently compares the received screen sizes and quality ratings against its own screen size and quality rating and makes a determination that the first TV is the device that should output video content and the stereo system is the device that should output audio content to best meet the desired functionality of the user profile because the first TV has the largest screen size and the stereo system has the highest quality speakers. The first motion sensor the second motion sensor the first TV the stereo system the second TV and the tablet exchange communications to confirm the agreement that the first TV is the device that should output video content and the stereo system is the device that should output audio content when a location of a user is unknown.

In addition the first motion sensor the second motion sensor the first TV the stereo system the second TV and the tablet are intelligent enough to recognize that the first motion sensor has been assigned to detect user presence in an area proximate to the first TV and the stereo system e.g. the first level of the property and that the second motion sensor has been assigned to detect user presence in an area proximate to the second TV e.g. the second level of the property . With this recognition the first motion sensor the second motion sensor the first TV the stereo system the second TV and the tablet agree to establish intelligent automation that provides the best user experience in accordance with user presence. Accordingly the first motion sensor the second motion sensor the first TV the stereo system the second TV and the tablet agree that the first TV is the device that should output video content and the stereo system is the device that should output audio content when the first motion sensor detects motion proximate to the first TV and the stereo system e.g. motion on the first level of the property . Also the first motion sensor the second motion sensor the first TV the stereo system the second TV and the tablet agree that the second TV is the device that should output video and audio content when the second motion sensor detects motion proximate to the second TV e.g. motion on the second level of the property . The second TV is selected because the second TV has the largest screen size and highest audio output capability of devices proximate to the second motion sensor .

In the example shown in the tablet receives input to output a movie that includes video and audio. As shown the user is located on the second level proximate to the second TV when the input is received. Based on the negotiations described above which may occur before or after the input to output the movie is received the tablet monitors for status events communicated by the first motion sensor and the second motion sensor . Because no one is located on the first level of the property the first motion sensor does not report any status events and the tablet determines that no users are known to be located on the first level of the property proximate to the first TV and the stereo system . Because the user is located on the second level of the property the second motion sensor reports one or more motion events and the tablet determines that a user is known to be located on the second level of the property proximate to the second TV . Based on the analysis of the motion sensor events the tablet determines that the second TV should output video content and audio content for the movie even though the first TV has a larger screen size and the stereo system has better audio output capability. The tablet sends the video content and the audio content for the movie to the second TV with a request to output the video content and the audio content. The second TV receives the video content the audio content and the request and begins outputting the video and audio of the movie selected on the tablet . Other than user input to define the user profile assign the motion sensors to locations in the property relative to devices in the property and select the movie on the tablet all of the actions shown and described with respect to occur automatically without user input or intervention.

The electronic device establishes a connection to the peer to peer network . The electronic device may establish a connection to the peer to peer network using techniques similar to those described above with respect to reference numeral in .

The electronic device accesses a user profile registered for the peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device accesses a user profile from its electronic storage or receives a user profile from another electronic device connected to the peer to peer network as part of a user profile synchronization process.

The electronic device determines that the user profile defines one or more preferences related to handling social network activity . For example the electronic device evaluates the user profile for provisions related to social network activity and identifies provisions in the user profile that relate to social network activity. In this example the electronic device identifies portions of the user profile that define how to handle on the peer to peer network social network activity detected by one or more of the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network.

The electronic device negotiates with electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network to determine how to collaboratively handle social network activity . For example the user profile for the peer to peer network may include rules for automated handling of social network activity that are controlled by capabilities e.g. screen size audio output quality connectivity speed processing power battery life etc. of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network. In this example the electronic device may exchange with the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network capabilities of the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network evaluate the exchanged capabilities against the rules for automated collaboration that are controlled by capabilities of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network and determine how to collaboratively handle social network activity based on the evaluation of the exchanged capabilities against the rules for automated collaboration that are controlled by capabilities of electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network.

In some implementations the electronic device detects a conflict between a first electronic device and a second electronic device each requesting handling of a particular type of social networking task. In these implementations the electronic device may resolve to the conflict in a variety of ways. For example the electronic device may resolve the detected conflict in a manner specified in the peer to peer intelligence for resolving conflicts. In this example the electronic device may receive from devices connected to the peer to peer network votes for how to resolve the detected conflict and resolve the detected conflict based on the votes received from devices connected to the peer to peer network. Further in this example the devices connected to the peer to peer network agree to abide by the votes of the other devices and the device receiving the most votes accepts responsibility for performing the particular type of action with respect to social network activity.

In another example the electronic device accesses a first priority associated with a first electronic device and a second priority associated with a second electronic device compares the first priority with the second priority and resolves the detected conflict based on the comparison of the first priority with the second priority. In this example the first and second priorities may be assigned by a user in the user profile and the electronic device resolves the conflict in favor of the device with the higher priority. The first and second priorities also may relate to timing priorities associated with how long ago the devices joined the peer to peer network. In some cases devices that joined the network more recently will be given higher priority and in other cases devices that have been part of the network for a longer duration will be given higher priority.

The electronic device identifies an event related to social network activity detected by one or more of the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network . For example the electronic device detects a posting on the user s social network. In this example the posting on the social network may relate to any information that may be exchanged over a social network. The event may be detected directly by the electronic device or communicated to the electronic device by another electronic device that directly detected the event. In addition the event related to social network activity may be an event of a device logged into a social networking platform joining the network.

The electronic device based on the negotiation collaborates with at least one electronic device that is unable to access the social network in a manner that results in the at least one electronic device handling at least a portion of the event related to the social network activity . For instance the electronic device may collaborate with the at least one electronic device in a manner that results in the at least one electronic device handling all of the event related to the social network activity at the at least one electronic device. Alternatively in some examples the electronic device may collaborate with the at least one electronic device in a manner that results in the at least one electronic device handling a first portion of the event related to the social network activity at the at least one electronic device by performing a part of an action related to the social network activity at the at least one electronic device. In these examples the electronic device handles a second portion of the event at the electronic device by performing a second part of the action related to the social network activity at the electronic device.

As shown in a home environment includes four connected consumer electronic devices with each device having the peer to peer intelligence described throughout this disclosure embedded therein. The devices include an HDMI dongle connected to a TV a TV Internet connected a smartphone currently running a social network application such as a Facebook application and a DVR Internet connected .

A user has already specified in his user profile the desired use scenarios when these four devices are connected. For example the user profile shown in is an example of a user profile that defines the desired use scenarios when the four devices are connected. The desired user scenario is that when the user s smartphone is running a social network application such as a Facebook application and is brought to the vicinity of the HDMI dongle which is plugged into the TV the user wants all photos and videos included in the user s social network e.g. FaceBook newsfeed to be automatically played on the TV via the HDMI dongle . In some examples the HDMI dongle may be an Android based device such as Chromecast from Google.

At a first time Time 1 in an initialization has been performed by the TV the DVR and the HDMI dongle . In this regard the HDMI dongle the TV and the DVR are already on the network and all are connected via an Ethernet or a wireless connection. The user has previously entered his user profile information e.g. the user profile shown in via a web interface using the TV . The user profile resides on the TV the DVR and the HDMI dongle . At the first time the TV is outputting live broadcast television programming and the DVR and the HDMI dongle are idle.

At a second time Time 2 in the smartphone running the user s social network e.g. FaceBook application is brought to the vicinity of the network and connected to the network via a wireless connection such as Wi Fi and the TV the HDMI dongle and the DVR simultaneously discover the presence of the smartphone and the smartphone simultaneously discovers the presence of the TV the HDMI dongle and the DVR on the same network. The smartphone communicates with the other three devices its device and service descriptions and the application it is currently running e.g. the social network application while the TV the HDMI dongle and the DVR communicate with the smartphone their respective device and service descriptions.

The TV the DVR the HDMI dongle and the smartphone then perform a user profile synchronization process. During the user profile synchronization process the smartphone obtains the latest user profile from either the TV the DVR or the HDMI dongle and stores a local copy of the user profile in its storage.

The TV the DVR the HDMI dongle and the smartphone then perform a status synchronization process. During the status synchronization process the TV updates the smartphone the HDMI dongle and the DVR that it is currently playing a particular television program. The DVR updates the TV the HDMI dongle and the smartphone that it is on standby and there are no active recording sessions.

The TV the DVR the HDMI dongle and the smartphone then identify desired user functions. All four devices look up the user profile and recognize the desired user scenario is to play chronologically all photos and videos included in the user s social network e.g. Facebook newsfeed to the HDMI dongle controlled TV and that any program currently playing on the TV is to be preempted and redirected to the DVR .

The TV the DVR the HDMI dongle and the smartphone then engage in peer negotiations. The HDMI dongle determines when it is ready to login to the user s social network account e.g. account on FaceBook and retrieve photos and stream videos from the user s social network account e.g. account on FaceBook according to a certain playback sequence. Social networking platforms such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Pinterest etc. offer a rich set of API s available to retrieve photos and videos uploaded by users and shown in the user s newsfeed. The HDMI dongle informs the TV and the smartphone of its current state. The TV determines it is currently playing a TV program and negotiates with the DVR to begin recording the currently playing TV program on the DVR . The DVR replies that it is currently idle and can immediately accept the TV s request. The DVR starts recording the currently playing TV program.

The TV and the HDMI dongle reply to the smartphone that each are now available to play photos and stream videos from the user s social network e.g. Facebook account and the smartphone immediately launches a remote control application to help the user navigate the user s photo and video playback on the TV via the HDMI dongle .

The HDMI dongle continuously monitors the progress of photo playback and video streaming from the user s social network e.g. Facebook account including monitoring any possible user input such as fast forward pause stop or rewind commands sent from the smartphone . At a third time Time 3 in the HDMI dongle detects that it has reached the end of the user s photos or video streams and updates the TV the smartphone and the DVR of this condition. The TV negotiates with the DVR to start playing the preempted TV program already recorded on the DVR to the TV . The DVR replies to the TV s request and begins playing on the TV the program just recorded. The smartphone exits the remote control application.

The smartphone exits the network. The TV the HDMI dongle and the DVR detect the departure of the smartphone and remove the presence of the smartphone from their respective internal data store.

The electronic device identifies electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network . For instance the electronic device accesses device identifiers from the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network.

The electronic device identifies social network profiles of users of the electronic devices connected to the peer to peer network . For example the electronic device identifies devices that are connected to the peer to peer network and that are running an application connected to a social network. In this example the electronic device queries the identified devices for information related to the social network profile of the user connected to the social network and receives one or more social network profiles based on the queries.

The electronic device analyzes the identified electronic devices and or the identified social network profiles with respect to preferences related to handling social network activity in the registered user profile . For instance the electronic device compares the identified electronic devices to a list of devices that are allowed to view social network activity of the user and devices that are not allowed to view social network activity of the user. The electronic device also determines whether the users associated with the identified social network profiles are connected to the user in the user s social network. If the electronic devices are allowed to view social network activity of the user or are connected to the user in the user s social network the electronic device determines that the corresponding devices are able to view the social network activity of the user. If the electronic devices are not allowed to view social network activity of the user or are not connected to the user in the user s social network the electronic device determines that the corresponding devices are not able to view the social network activity of the user.

The electronic device handles an event related to social network activity based on the analysis . For example the electronic device may maintain the event related to social network activity as a private event that is viewable only on the mobile device to which the social network is accessible. In another example the electronic device may publish the event related to social network activity as a public event on a common device such as a television that is potentially viewable by multiple users. The common device may not be able to access the social network.

In an initialization has been performed by a TV and a tablet . In this regard the TV and the tablet are connected to the network and the user profile resides on both the TV and the tablet . The TV and the tablet perform a negotiation process in which the tablet indicates that the tablet is running a social networking application that is currently logged into Max s account. Based on the indication the TV and the tablet agree to use the user profile to handle social network activity detected by the tablet . In this regard the TV and the tablet agree to display social network activity detected by the tablet on the TV . As shown in the tablet detects an alert on Max s social network account. Based on detection of the alert and the negotiation the tablet sends the social network activity related to the alert to the TV for display. The TV receives the social network activity related to the alert and as shown displays the social network activity related to the alert. In this regard Max may be automatically alerted to social network activity while Max is watching a television program and not actively checking his mobile device which may enhance the convenience of watching television by eliminating the need to check a mobile device for social network alerts or having to perform any type of setup to have the social network alerts displayed on the TV .

In a smartphone has joined the network and is automatically discovered by the TV and the tablet . The TV the tablet and the smartphone perform a negotiation process in which the smartphone indicates that the smartphone is running a social networking application that is currently logged into a user Jon s account. Based on the indication the tablet checks whether Jon is a friend of Max s in Max s social network and provides an indication to the TV and the smartphone that indicates whether Jon is a friend of Max. If Jon is not a friend of Max the TV the tablet and the smartphone agree to maintain output of social network activity detected by the tablet on the tablet and maintain output of social network activity detected by the smartphone on the smartphone . However as shown in Jon is a friend of Max and the TV the tablet and the smartphone agree to use the TV to output social network activity detected by the tablet and output social network activity detected by the smartphone . As shown the tablet detects two alerts on Max s social network account that are close in time and detects one alert on Jon s social network account that is close in time. Based on detection of the alerts and the negotiation the tablet sends the social network activity related to its alerts to the TV for display and the smartphone sends the social network activity related to its alert to the TV for display. The TV receives the social network activity related to the alerts and determines that the alert detected by the smartphone is the same as one of the alerts detected by the tablet . To reduce the amount of screen real estate occupied by the alert the TV combines the information from the alert and presents the alert in a manner that indicates that the alert corresponds to both Max and Jon. For the alert that only corresponds to Max the TV displays the alert in a manner that indicates that the alert corresponds to only Max.

In a smartphone has joined the network and is automatically discovered by the TV and the tablet . The TV the tablet and the smartphone perform a negotiation process in which the smartphone provides device identification information. Based on the device identification information the tablet and the TV determine that the device identification information is for the particular mobile device labeled as the parent device in the user profile . Based on the determination that the device identification information is for the particular mobile device labeled as the parent device in the user profile the TV the tablet and the smartphone agree to maintain output of social network activity detected by the tablet on the tablet . Accordingly as shown in the tablet detects an alert on Max s social network account. Based on detection of the alert and the negotiation the tablet outputs the social network activity related to the alert itself and withholds the social network activity related to the alert from the TV . Using the techniques described with respect to a user may be able to experience the enhancement of having social network activity automatically communicated to the user in a manner that best utilizes the capabilities of devices connected to the peer to peer network while maintaining privacy when other devices are connected to the peer to peer network.

The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

