---

title: System and method for processing and distribution of unstructured documents
abstract: A computer-implemented system and method for processing and distribution of unstructured documents are disclosed. The apparatus and method in an example embodiment includes receiving an unstructured document; obtaining information from the document; storing portions of the information obtained from the document in a data set corresponding to the document; using a portion of the information obtained from the document to obtain an identifier of an enterprise record corresponding to the document; recording a specified behavior category for the document; and using the data set and the specified behavior category to dispatch the document to a recipient or an enterprise.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483552&OS=09483552&RS=09483552
owner: Sanah, Inc.
number: 09483552
owner_city: Sacramento
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140219
---
This is a continuation patent application drawing priority from co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 381 469 filed Mar. 12 2009. This present patent application draws priority from the referenced patent application. The entire disclosure of the referenced patent application is considered part of the disclosure of the present application and is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2007 2014 Sanah Inc. All Rights Reserved.

This disclosure relates to data processing. More particularly the present disclosure relates to data processing and distribution of unstructured documents.

An enterprise often needs to process documents from 3parties for the benefit of the customers or patients of the enterprise. The enterprise can be a health care provider government agency corporation organization or other commercial non profit charitable entity or the like. These documents can include invoices for services rendered by a 3party medical dental lab results referral information insurance information and a variety of other documents the enterprise can use to render service to its customers or patients. Additionally the enterprise may need to forward or distribute documents to 3parties for the benefit of the customers or patients of the enterprise. These documents can include prescriptions care directives requests for lab tests invoices to insurance companies and the like. This flow of documents into and out of the enterprise can be cumbersome and error prone especially when the documents are unstructured. Unstructured documents are collections of information the components of which are not readily distinguishable by computer processing means. A document coded in conventional Portable Document Format PDF a file format created by ADOBE SYSTEMS INC. is an example of an unstructured document. Other examples of unstructured documents include text documents faxes emails image files video audio files and the like. Other document formats can include bit mapped format binary format Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG format Graphics Interchange Format GIF Tagged Image Format TIF Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG format and Rich Text Format RTF .

Some solutions offered by conventional document processing systems include defining standardized forms for submittal to the enterprise. However a broad level of standardization of forms is very difficult to implement. Other conventional solutions for example use a managed health care network wherein 3party providers must become subscribers prior to submitting documents to the enterprise. Special software is used in a proprietary network to transfer documents. Still other systems use conventional email systems or website downloads to transfer documents to the enterprise. However such systems are not secure and may not comply with the requirements of governmental regulations such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA .

United States Patent Application No. 2003 0074248 discloses a means for an enterprise such as a health care facility to receive messages from any one of a plurality of disparate ancillary vendor applications convert the vendor information to an enterprise usable form and then store the enterprise information on an enterprise database. The enterprise keeps vendor specific rules for converting each vendor s information to enterprise information. Additionally relational enterprise rules are applied to the enterprise data stored in a enterprise database so as disparate vendor information is converted to enterprise data the relationships between that converted enterprise data are checked with the enterprise data stored in the enterprise database. Enterprise data can also be directly entered into the enterprise database from enterprise system clients the relationships between that enterprise data are also checked with the enterprise data stored in the enterprise database.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 664 109 discloses a central medical record repository for a managed health care organization that accepts and stores medical record documents in any format from medical service providers. The repository then identifies the document using information automatically extracted from the document and stores the extracted data in a document database. The repository links the document to a patient by extracting from the document demographic data identifying the patient and matching it to data stored in a patient database. Data is extracted automatically from medical records containing unstructured or free form text by identifying conventional organization components in the text and is organized by executing rules that extract data with the aid of such information. Documents for a patient are retrieved by identifying the patient using demographic data.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 082 538 describes a secure messaging system that encrypts an electronic document using a symmetric key and transmits the encrypted document and related message parameters to a recipient whose identity is then authenticated by a web server. The web server dynamically regenerates the symmetric key from a hidden key and from the message parameters accompanying the encrypted document and thus avoids having to maintain a central repository of encrypted documents as required by typical post and pick up encrypted messaging systems. Further an audit trail provides time stamped message digest data for a plurality of time intervals where the message digests for adjacent time intervals are computationally linked together. The audit trail effectively enables time stamped message digest data to verify not only the existence of a document during a first time interval but also to verify the existence of documents encountered in a prior time interval.

Thus an improved computer implemented system and method for processing and distribution of unstructured documents is needed.

A computer implemented system and method for processing and distribution of unstructured documents are disclosed. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known processes structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the clarity of this description. Various embodiments are described below in connection with the figures provided herein.

The unstructured document processor and system of the various embodiments described herein enable an enterprise to efficiently receive process and distribute unstructured documents. The documents can be efficiently added to an existing enterprise record system and associated with the appropriate file or record in the enterprise record system. For example a health care enterprise can process received facsimile fax documents and efficiently add the fax documents to an electronic medical record EMR system. Additionally the fax documents can be routed to an out going fax server and automatically faxed to appropriate recipients. Outgoing documents can also be routed to an individual recipient an enterprise an email address a network address a printer an email server a network device a mobile device another fax system a rendering device and or a storage device. It will be understood that recipients as used herein can include any of these document destinations.

Other applications for the systems and methods disclosed herein include unstructured document processing and distribution for debt collection operations academic institutions government agencies financial institutions media communications organizations and manufacturing companies.

A secure host server executing processing logic associated with an unstructured document processor can be used to implement the novel techniques described herein. The host server can be a data processing system such as the system described below in connection with . Such a data processing system can communicate with the fax server via network using conventional interfaces and protocols. The host server can thereby obtain the unstructured documents received by the fax server from the variety of sources. The host server can also obtain unstructured documents received by other document sources via network . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a user can access the host server via a client device and the data network using conventional interfaces and protocols. The unstructured document processor can save backups of received documents associated data sets and associated log files in a data storage archive such as database .

Using the various novel techniques described herein the unstructured document processor can process and distribute these unstructured documents in a variety of ways. For example as shown in processed documents can be transmitted to an enterprise structured document system server via a public or private network . A medical organization EMR system is one example of such an enterprise structured document system server . A financial organization server is another example of a server . The unstructured document processor can also process and distribute these unstructured documents to an out going fax server via a public or private network . The out going fax server can subsequently cause the documents to be faxed to one or more identified recipients. The unstructured document processor can also process and distribute unstructured documents to other document recipients such as individual recipients email addresses network addresses Internet Protocol IP addresses or Uniform Resource Locators URL s output devices e.g. printers fax machines displays etc. communication devices e.g. an email server an instant messaging IM server a network device a mobile device another fax system etc. and or storage devices. Further details on the unstructured document processor are provided below.

The data capture component is responsible for implementing interfaces and functionality for gathering information related to a received unstructured document. In one example the information related to a received unstructured document is gathered from a reviewer for whom the received unstructured document is displayed via a user interface. As used herein a reviewer can be a user enterprise representative document specialist or other individual with authorized data access to use unstructured document processor and a host server upon which the unstructured document processor is executed. The reviewer can operate the user interface to read portions of the received unstructured document and operate the user interface to input the information related to the received unstructured document into data fields of the user interface. In this manner the reviewer can input information related to the received document including the addressee of the document the originator of the document any identified account number or reference number the category or type of document e.g. invoice lab result request for service etc. the number of pages and the like. The portions of the information obtained from the unstructured document and the data input by the reviewer via the user interface can be captured and stored in a data set corresponding to the processed document. The reviewer can use judgment to provide additional information about the document that may not have been determinable from the document itself using automated methods. This additional information can also be stored in the data set corresponding to the processed document.

In an example of a particular embodiment as illustrated in the reviewer can receive for example an unstructured document such as a faxed document as a PDF formatted document from the fax server . The reviewer can open the PDF document and create a related metadata record associated data set for the received document. Some information related to the received document can be captured automatically and stored as automatically captured data components ACDC in the metadata record . For example the time of entry receipt of the document the number of pages received the source of the document and other information can be captured automatically and stored in the metadata record as automatically captured data components ACDC . Using the user interface provided by data capture component the reviewer can also manually capture information for storage as manually captured data components MCDC in the metadata record . For example the reviewer can manually categorize the received document e.g. an Invoice The reviewer can also capture the name of the originator of the document the name s of the parties to whom the document is addressed e.g. Dr. A the name s of the parties to whom the document should be copied e.g. Dr. C account numbers and other information provided in the document . This information can be captured and stored in the MCDC of the metadata record .

Once the automatic and manual data components for the received document have been saved in the metadata record related to the document an Automated Rule Set ARS can be matched to the metadata record . An Automated Rule Set ARS is comprised of a condition and a set of actions . The ARS can be created for a particular application during a system configuration phase. During an operations phase the metadata record can be matched with a particular ARS when the condition associated with the ARS is satisfied by the information in a particular metadata record . For example a particular ARS may have been created which includes a condition that checks for a metadata record with a category Invoice an addressee Dr. A and a copy addressee cc Dr. C. When the condition of the ARS is matched to the information in the metadata record the actions specified in the corresponding ARS can be scheduled for processing by creating jobs that will perform the specified actions . The created jobs can be picked up for processing by the document distribution component enterprise structured document system interface component an email processor or other component capable of performing one or more of the actions .

In an example of a particular embodiment as applied to a medical application the reviewer can receive for example a faxed document as a PDF formatted document from the fax server . The reviewer can open the PDF document using the user interface provided by data capture component and capture the following information which can be used to relate the received fax with a record in an EMR system 1 Patient Name 2 Patient Date of Birth. 3 Document Category or Type 4 Reading Doctor 5 Service Procedure Date 6 Page numbers in the fax relevant to this patient and 7 Recipients to whom the fax should be distributed. After obtaining the information summarized above from the received unstructured fax document the reviewer can operate the user interface to store relevant information obtained from or associated with the received fax into a data set corresponding to the processed fax document.

In another example of the functionality provided by data capture component the information related to a received unstructured document can also be gathered using automated techniques. For example the date and time when the document was received can be captured automatically. Any meta data related to the document can also be captured. In some cases faxed documents carry associated meta information including the originating telephone number dialed telephone number name of originator page count and comments. This meta information related to the received unstructured document can be gathered using automated techniques. The automatically gathered information can be added to the data set corresponding to the processed document. Other automated techniques such as optical character recognition OCR or bar code scanning can also be used to automatically gather information related to the received unstructured document. One or more of these automated or manual techniques can be used by the data capture component to gather information related to the received unstructured document and to create a data set corresponding to the processed document.

Once the information related to the received unstructured document is gathered and stored in a data set as described above the dispatcher component shown in can use the gathered information in the data set to automatically categorize record and dispatch the processed document for distribution to desired recipients. As part of the data capture operations described above the reviewer can classify or categorize the received unstructured document by entering a document type or category code into the user interface. The particular document type or category code can be used to classify a particular document and thereby define a set of operations or behaviors for processing the document. For example a particular document type or category code can be used to classify a particular document as an invoice a drug prescription a lab result an insurance claim a proof of payment a receipt a notice of litigation or a variety of other types of documents. The document categories for a particular application can be pre defined and configured in a pull down menu for example for the reviewer to select. Each document category in a set of document categories for a particular application can have an associated rule set that defines a behavior with a corresponding set of actions or operations to perform as related to the particular document. These actions or operations are performed when an unstructured document in a corresponding category is received. For example an invoice may be received by the unstructured document processor of a particular embodiment. The reviewer may code the received invoice as being an invoice category document. In this example invoice category documents have an associated rule set that defines a set of actions or operations that are performed when an invoice is received. These actions or operations may include automatically forwarding the received invoice to for example 1 an email address associated with an enterprise accounting department and to 2 an email address associated with the enterprise payables group. These actions or operations defined in the rule set may also include creating a new database record performing a database query generating a printed record generating a network connection or any other automated operation. A different rule set can define a different set of operations or behaviors for a different category of documents. In this manner the reviewer can implicitly define a set of actions to perform on a received document by coding the document in a particular behavior category.

By virtue of the category coding given a particular document as described above the dispatcher component can automatically obtain the rule set associated with a particular received document. This rule set can be used by the dispatcher component to perform the defined set of operations on the document. The information retained in the data set associated with the received document can be used by the dispatcher component to perform the defined set of operations. For example the rule set may define that the document should be forwarded to the addressee identified in the received document. As part of the data capture process as described above the reviewer will have extracted the addressee information from the document and stored this information into the data set for the document. Thus the addressee information will be available to the dispatcher component . Similarly other information related to the document that is captured as part of the data capture process described above can be made available to the dispatcher component .

The dispatcher component can use the captured information related to the document to dispatch the document in a manner defined by the rule set associated with the document category. Based on the captured information and the rule set the dispatcher component may dispatch the document in a variety of ways. In a particular embodiment the dispatcher component may queue the document and or information associated with the document for routing to for example 1 an enterprise server an out going fax server an email server a peer to peer network node a printer a storage device a rendering device or other destination system or device. The dispatcher component may also perform any needed encryption compression transcoding translation configuration or message wrapping that may be necessary prior to the transmission of the document to a destination system or device. Depending upon the operations defined in the rule set for a particular document the dispatcher component can process and queue the received document for delivery to one or more recipients. As described in the example above the processed document can be forwarded to one or more network connected recipients enterprise servers fax servers communication devices output devices and the like. In a particular embodiment the dispatcher component is responsible for determining how the received document is processed and to where the document is queued for delivery.

The dispatcher component can also serve an administrative role in logging tracking archiving and auditing the receipt and delivery of each received document. The dispatcher component can automatically create a log entry in a document log when the received document is processed by the reviewer via the user interface of the data capture component . The log entry can include one or more of the data items retained in the data set associated with the received document. The log entry can also include status data indicating the disposition of the document as the document is processed by the unstructured document processor . For example the log entry can record the fact that a particular document has been queued for delivery to one or more recipients. Later when the document has been transmitted to the desired recipients by the document distribution component the log entry can be updated to record the fact that document delivery has been completed. A communication between the document distribution component and the dispatcher component can be used to keep the status log entry current for each document. The details of the document distribution component are provided below. Using the status log entries for each document the dispatcher component can perform tracking and auditing functions to reconcile the activity of the dispatcher component with the activities of the document distribution component . In this manner the dispatcher component can determine if an operation performed for a particular document has failed and exception handling needs to be executed. For example if document delivery to a particular recipient has timed out or returned an error condition the dispatcher component can take corrective action. This corrective action can include the queuing of the document for re transmission the transmission of an error report to a pre defined location the re routing of the document to an alternate recipient or the like. Exception handling rule sets can be pre defined to specify a set of operations to be performed in the event of a document transmission error non delivery mis delivery or the like. The dispatcher component can also save backups of received documents associated data sets and associated log files in a data storage archive such as database shown in . At periodic pre defined intervals the dispatcher component can schedule archiving operations to save received documents and related data in the archive. Depending upon the document category defined for a particular document different rule sets can be pre defined to specify a set of logging or archiving operations to be performed by the dispatcher component . The dispatcher component can thereby be configured to perform a specific set of operations for each of the pre defined set of document categories. Thus the administrative role performed by the dispatcher component can also be rule driven in the same way that the document dispatching role of the dispatcher component is rule driven. This provides a highly configurable and highly efficient unstructured document processing platform.

Referring still to the unstructured document processor includes a document distribution component . The document distribution component of a particular embodiment is responsible for routing and transmitting a processed document and related data to one or more intended recipients. As described above the dispatcher component can prepare processed documents and queue the documents for delivery by the document distribution component . As part of this processing the address fax number or link to the intended recipient s can be included with the queued document. These recipients can include network connected recipients enterprise servers fax servers communication devices output devices and the like. illustrate example networked systems in which various embodiments may operate for processing and distribution of an in flow and an out flow of documents.

As shown in the unstructured document processor operating in a host server of a particular embodiment can send a processed document and related data to one or more intended recipients via a public network or a secure private network . As shown in these recipients can include one or more enterprise servers and an out going fax server another out going document server or another recipient such as an individual recipient an email account an instant messaging account a wireless device another communication device a storage device an output device e.g. printer display fax machine etc. or the like.

As shown in the delivery of a particular processed document to one or more recipients can transition through one or more intervening devices or networks. For example the unstructured document processor can deliver a processed document and related data to enterprise server via public network or a secure private network out going fax server and public network or a secure private network . Similarly the unstructured document processor can deliver a processed document and related data to enterprise server via public network or a secure private network other out going document server and public network or a secure private network . Additionally the unstructured document processor can deliver a processed document and related data to another recipient via public network or a secure private network out going fax server or other out going document server and public network or a secure private network .

The public network or a secure private network and of a particular embodiment can be a conventional local area network LAN operating under a standard network protocol. In this embodiment the host server shown in hosting the unstructured document processor is given access to the LAN using standard access control mechanisms. The public network or a secure private network and can also be a conventional public network e.g. the Internet operating under a standard network protocol e.g. TCP IP . In this embodiment standard encryption techniques and protocols can be used to provide a secure data transmission of the processed document between the unstructured document processor and an intended recipient via the public network.

Referring again to the unstructured document processor includes an enterprise structured document system interface component . The enterprise structured document system interface component of a particular embodiment is responsible for providing an interface between the unstructured document processor and an enterprise specific data processing or file management system. An electronic medical record EMR system is one example of such an enterprise specific data processing system. A debt collection database is another example of such an enterprise specific data processing system. In each instance of the enterprise specific data processing system special interface requirements may need to be implemented in order for the unstructured document processor to communicate with the particular enterprise specific data processing system. An application programming interface API may be provided by the enterprise specific data processing system. The enterprise structured document system interface component of a particular embodiment provides the functionality and interfaces to support communication with the API provided by the enterprise specific data processing system. As shown in the enterprise structured document system interface component may use an API interface to facilitate data communications with the API provided by the enterprise specific data processing system. The enterprise structured document system interface component allows the details of the interface with a specific enterprise data processing system to be hidden from the unstructured document processor and the internal processing components of the enterprise structured document system. In this manner the unstructured document processor can be easily integrated a variety of different enterprise structured document systems.

The enterprise structured document system interface component can also provide enterprise specific configuration of the processed document and related data for entry or attachment of the document to the particular enterprise structured document system. The enterprise structured document system interface component can also provide enterprise specific process control such as batch uploading documents to the enterprise structured document system at particular pre defined times intervals and or rates.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations. In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a standalone client or server computer system configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein. In other embodiments the module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present description. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. As noted the software may be transmitted over a network using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for transmission to and execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signal or other intangible medium to facilitate transmission and communication of such software.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The figures provided herein are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The description herein may include terms such as up down upper lower first second etc. that are used for descriptive purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting. The elements materials geometries dimensions and sequence of operations may all be varied to suit particular applications. Parts of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. While the foregoing examples of dimensions and ranges are considered typical the various embodiments are not limited to such dimensions or ranges.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.74 b to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. The Abstract is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

The system of an example embodiment may include software information processing hardware and various processing steps which are described herein. The features and process steps of example embodiments may be embodied in articles of manufacture as machine or computer executable instructions. The instructions can be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor which is programmed with the instructions to perform the steps of an example embodiment. Alternatively the features or steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hard wired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. While embodiments are described with reference to the Internet the method and apparatus described herein is equally applicable to other network infrastructures or other data communications systems.

Various embodiments are described herein. In particular the use of embodiments with various types and formats of user interface presentations and or application programming interfaces may be described. It can be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternative embodiments of the implementations described herein can be employed and still fall within the scope of the claimed invention. In the detail herein various embodiments are described as implemented in computer implemented processing logic denoted sometimes herein as the Software . As described above however the claimed invention is not limited to a purely software implementation.

Thus a computer implemented system and method for processing and distribution of unstructured documents are disclosed. While the present invention has been described in terms of several example embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description herein is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

