---

title: Determination of a service description most closely matching a specified service name
abstract: A method and system for determining a service description most closely matching a service name provided by a user. It is determined that the service name provided by the user is not an exact match to a service name in a service registry that comprises service names and associated service descriptions. A ranked service name is generated and includes at least one alternative service name and a respective rank of each alternative service name. The respective rank indicates how closely the alternative service name associated with the respective rank resembles the service name provided by the user. It is ascertained that a service description associated with a service name in the service registry that either matches the highest ranked alternative service name in the service name list or matches the next highest ranked alternative service name in the service name list. The ascertained service description is communicated to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355156&OS=09355156&RS=09355156
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09355156
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140825
---
This application is a continuation application claiming priority to Ser. No. 13 866 089 filed Apr. 19 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 880 519 issued Nov. 4 2014 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 13 039 368 filed Mar. 3 2011 U.S. Pat. No. 8 478 753 issued Jul. 2 2013.

This invention is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 174 944 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERFORMING ADVANCED SEARCH IN SERVICE REGISTRY SYSTEM filed on Jul. 17 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 996 394 issued Aug. 9 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 175 552 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IMPROVING NON EXACT MATCHING SEARCH IN SERVICE REGISTRY SYSTEM WITH CUSTOM DICTIONARY filed on Jul. 18 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 966 320 issued Jun. 21 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 945 151 entitled SEARCH CAPABILITY ENHANCEMENT IN SERVICE ORIENTED ARCHITECTURE SOA SERVICE REGISTRY SYSTEM filed on Nov. 12 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 945 337 entitled SERVICE ORIENTED ARCHITECTURE SOA SERVICE REGISTRY SYSTEM WITH ENHANCED SEARCH CAPABILITY filed on Nov. 12 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 352 491 issued Jan. 8 2013.

Aspects of present invention disclose a system and associated method for automatically performing advanced searches for a service description in a service oriented architecture SOA service registry system. Conventional SOA service registry systems require users to provide an exact service name to search for a specific service description published in a registry of the SOA registry system. Also because conventional SOA service registry systems have tightly coupled processing components it is difficult to improve functionality and or performance of conventional SOA service registry systems in a scalable fashion.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method for advanced searching of a service registry for a service description that is most closely matches a service name provided by a user comprises receiving the service name by a processor of a computer on which a Service Oriented Architecture SOA service registry system runs wherein the SOA service registry system comprises the service registry a name parser a dictionary and a name composer and wherein the service registry comprises at least one service description searchable by a respectively associated service name determining that the service name does not have the service description that is an exact match to the received service name in the service registry generating a ranked alternative service name list by use of the name parser the dictionary and the name composer wherein the ranked alternative service name list comprising at least one alternative service name and a respective rank of each alternative service name of said at least one alternative service name wherein the respective rank indicates how closely the alternative service name associated with the respective rank resembles the service name provided by the user ascertaining that the service description matches the highest ranked alternative service name in the alternative service name list by searching the service registry with said at least one alternative service name in a descending order of the respective ranks of said at least one alternative service name and communicating the service description matching the highest ranked alternative service name to the user.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a computer program product comprises a computer readable memory unit that embodies a computer readable program code. The computer readable program code contains instructions that when run by a processor of a computer system implement advanced searching of a service registry for a service description that is most closely matches a service name provided by a user.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a computer system comprises a processor a memory coupled to the processor and a computer readable storage device coupled to the processor said storage device containing program code configured to be executed by the processor via the memory to implement advanced searching of a service registry for a service description that is most closely matches a service name provided by a user.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a process for supporting computer infrastructure said process comprising providing at least one support service for at least one of creating integrating hosting maintaining and deploying computer readable code in a computing system wherein the code in combination with the computing system is capable of performing advanced searching of a service registry for a service description that is most closely matches a service name provided by a user.

The system comprises the user and an integrated development environment IDE in which the user is developing a service oriented architecture SOA business application and or a software project comprising the SOA business application. The SOA business application utilizes at least one SOA service registry entry service name service description in which each service name uniquely identifies a respective service description. Each service description comprises information necessary to provide a SOA service identified by a respective service name within each SOA service registry entry. In this specification terms SOA service web service and service are used interchangeably.

The IDE comprises a user interface and a service oriented architecture SOA service registry system . Examples of the user interface may be inter alia application programming interface API a graphical user interface to receive a web service name to search an associated web service description etc. and combinations thereof.

The SOA service registry system comprises said at least one SOA service registry entry service name service description and components facilitating a search of the service description by use of a service name that is associated with the service description in a particular service registry entry. The SOA service registry system is configured to look up the service description with the service name provided by the user .

The user provides the service name as an input to the SOA service registry system through the user interface to search the service description corresponding to the service name . The user receives the service description comprising a service name value that matches the service name if the service description is found in the SOA service registry system . The user receives a null wherein no service description comprising a service name value that matches the service name is found in the SOA service registry system .

The service description comprises development time information a communication protocol and a message format. An example of the development time information may be inter alia operations exposed by a given service etc. Examples of the communication protocol may be inter alia the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Internet Inter Orb Protocol HOP Java Remote Method Protocol JRMP Java Message Service JMS protocol etc. An example of the message format may be inter alia the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP etc. The service description may further comprise runtime information such as the IP address and port number for a given service implementation. Web Service Description Language WSDL is usually employed to describe a SOA service. See infra for an example of the service description for a SOA service registry entry written in Web Services Description Language WSDL format.

The SOA service registry system comprises a service registry a name parser a dictionary and a name composer . The SOA service registry system publishes service descriptions and searches published service descriptions with a respective service name. The SOA service registry system of the present invention locates the service description that is associated with a service name that is either identical to the service name or an alternative service name that is most similar to the service name wherein the service registry does not have an exact match for the service name .

The service registry receives the service name from the user interface and returns the service description to the user interface if the service description matching the service name exists in the service registry . The service registry also performs searches for alternative service names generated by the name composer and produces multiple service descriptions found as matching the alternative service names existing in the service registry .

The service registry stores previously registered at least one service description that is searchable by a respective service name. The service registry utilizes the service name as a key to search entries of the service registry for the service description associated with the service name . The service registry may be implemented by used of a conventional SOA service registry system enabling the advanced search functionality described in this specification for such conventional SOA service registry system.

The name parser generates a constituent word list from the service name which lists at least one word constitutes the service name . Each word is distinguished according to a shortest meaningful word listed in conventional dictionaries. For example when the service name is globalWeatherService the name parser generates the constituent word list global weather service as shown in infra. The name parser returns the constituent word list to the search controller .

The dictionary receives the constituent word list from the search controller . The dictionary generates a respective synonym list for each word in the constituent word list generated by the name parser . The dictionary returns the synonym list for each constituent word to the search controller .

The name composer receives all synonym lists from the search controller . The name composer generates a candidate service name list from the received synonym lists generated by the dictionary such that the candidate service name list comprises at least one candidate service name that is not identical to the service name but has a meaning similar to the service name .

In step the SOA service registry system receives a request to search a service description in the service registry with the service name provided by the user. Then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step .

In step the SOA service registry system determines whether or not the service description comprising the service name in the request of step supra exists in the service registry. If the SOA service registry system determines that the service registry does not have the service description comprising the service name in the request then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step for further search with alternative service names because there is no service description exactly matching the received service name. If the SOA service registry system determines that the service registry has the service description comprising the service name in the request then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step because the service description is found as an exact match of the received service name and no further search is necessary.

In step the SOA service registry system generates an alternative service name list based on the received service name to find a non exact matching service description that is most closely associated with the service name. See descriptions of infra for steps performed to generate the alternative service name list. Then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step .

In step the SOA service registry system searches in a predefined order the service registry for alternative service names generated in the alternative service name list from step . In one embodiment of the present invention the alternative service names in the alternative service name list are respectively associated with ranks indicating a respective degree of association with the service name that had been originally requested by the user. See descriptions of infra for steps performed in searching the service registry with the alternative service names. Then the SOA service registry system terminates processing the search request.

In step the SOA service registry system returns the service description found in the service registry from step supra as the service description associated with the received service name is found in the service registry. Then the SOA service registry system terminates processing the search request.

In step the SOA service registry system parses the service name and generates a constituent word list as a result of running the name parser. As presented in the related patent applications noted above the name parser receives the service name and parses the received service name. The name parser produces a constituent word list comprising all dictionary words appearing in the service name. In one embodiment of the present invention upon receiving the service name getCarPrice the name parser produces a constituent word list get car price . In this specification and related patent applications the terms constituent word list and component word list are used interchangeably. Then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step .

In step the SOA service registry system assigns a respective weight for each constituent word in the constituent word list. In another embodiment of the present invention the name parser returns a weighted constituent word list in step and the SOA service registry system proceeds with step without performing step . Then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step .

In step the SOA service registry system generates a respective synonym list of each in the constituent word list by running the dictionary as presented in the related patent applications. Then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step .

In step the SOA service registry system assigns a respective weight for each synonym in the synonym list. In another embodiment of the present invention the dictionary returns a weighted synonym list in step and the SOA service registry system proceeds with step without performing step . Then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step .

In step the SOA service registry system devises an alternative service name list by combining entries of the weighted constituent word list and the weighted synonym list by running the name composer as presented in the related patent applications. In this specification and related patent applications the terms alternative service name and candidate service name are used interchangeably. Then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step .

In step the SOA service registry system determines a respective rank of each alternative service name by adding weights of component words of said each alternative service name generated in step . In another embodiment of the present invention the name composer returns a ranked alternative service name list by adding weights of component words of said each alternative service name as the name composer generates each alternative service name of the alternative service name list. Then the SOA service registry system completes step of supra for generating the ranked alternative service name list and proceeds with step of supra.

The SOA service registry system performs a loop comprising steps through for each alternative service name in the ranked alternative service name list from a first alternative service name having a top rank among all alternative service names. The SOA service registry system returns a first found service description as the service description that is most closely associated with the service name received from the user and terminated processing the search request. If the SOA service registry system does not locate a service description for a last alternative service name having a lowest rank in the alternative service name list the SOA service registry system returns null to the user as there is no service description that is associated with the service name input by the user.

In step the SOA service registry system selects a current alternative service name that has a highest rank among the alternative service names that had not yet been processed by the loop comprising steps through . Then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step .

In step the SOA service registry system determines if the service description matching the selected current alternative service name is found in the service registry. If the SOA service registry system determines that the service description matching the selected current alternative service name is found in the service registry then the SOA service registry system proceeds with step . If the SOA service registry system determines that the service description matching the selected current alternative service name is not found in the service registry then the SOA service registry system loops back to step for a second alternative service name having a next highest rank within the alternative service name list.

In step the SOA service registry system returns the located service description matching the current alternative service name to the user. Then the SOA service registry system terminated processing the search request for the service name input by the user.

In step the SOA service registry system returns null o as a response to the search request by use of the service name because there is no service description having a similar service name with the service name input by the user. Then the SOA service registry system terminated processing the search request for the service name input by the user.

In lines L through L various namespaces are declared. In lines L through L various data types are declared. In lines L through L message types are declared which consist of an input message type and an output message type. In lines through L various operations included in the web service are declared.

The SOA service registry system receives an input service name of GetCarPrice from a user of the IDE.

After performing step the SOA service registry system has a constituent word list consisting of Get Car and Price . For each constituent word in the constituent word list the SOA service registry system looks up synonyms by use of the dictionary. depicts a result of the respective synonym list for all constituent words in the constituent word list wherein the input service name is GetCarPrice .

In one embodiment of the present invention the SOA service registry system assigns a very greater weight for constituent words from the input service name than a synonym replacing a respective constituent word. illustrates a set of weights assigned for the original constituent words and respective synonyms. A first constituent word Get has a weight of one hundred and three 103 while a first synonym of the first constituent word Obtain has a weight of zero 0 . Proportion of weights of original constituent word and respective synonyms is similarly devised in cases of a second constituent word Car a third constituent word Price and their respective synonyms as shown in . A respective weight of each synonym is previously defined within the SOA service registry system or interactively assigned by the user to represent a degree of associated between the constituent word and the synonym of the constituent word.

The computer system comprises a processor an input device coupled to the processor an output device coupled to the processor and memory devices and each coupled to the processor . In this specification the computer system represents any type of programmable data processing apparatus.

The input device is utilized to receive input data into the computer system . The input device may be inter alia a keyboard a mouse a keypad a touch screen a scanner a voice recognition device a sensor a network interface card NIC a Voice video over Internet Protocol VOIP adapter a wireless adapter a telephone adapter a dedicated circuit adapter etc. The output device is utilized to communicate results generated by the computer program code to a user of the computer system . The output device may be inter alia a printer a plotter a computer screen a magnetic tape a removable hard disk a floppy disk a NIC a VOIP adapter a wireless adapter a telephone adapter a dedicated circuit adapter an audio and or visual signal generator a light emitting diode LED etc.

Any of the components of the present invention can be deployed managed serviced etc. by a service provider that offers to deploy or integrate computing infrastructure with respect to a process for advanced search of the web service registry for a closest non exact matching service description of the present invention. Thus the present invention discloses a process for supporting computer infrastructure comprising integrating hosting maintaining and deploying computer readable code into a computing system e.g. computing system wherein the code in combination with the computing system is capable of performing a method for advanced search of the web service registry for the service description that is most closely associated with the service name.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method that performs the process steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator can offer to create maintain support etc. a process for advanced search of the web service registry for a closest non exact matching service description of the present invention. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

While shows the computer system as a particular configuration of hardware and software any configuration of hardware and software as would be known to a person of ordinary skill in the art may be utilized for the purposes stated supra in conjunction with the particular computer system of . For example the memory devices and may be portions of a single memory device rather than separate memory devices.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. In this specification the term memory device represent a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. The term computer program instructions is interchangeable with the term computer program code in this specification. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

