---

title: Swimming propulsion device
abstract: A swimming propulsion device. The swimming propulsion device includes a fuselage at least one propulsor pivotally connected to the fuselage, and in some embodiments, at least one stabilizer affixed to the fuselage. The device also includes a swimmer connection mechanism removably attached to the fuselage by a locking mechanism whereby the swimmer connection mechanism connects a swimmer to the device, and a control mechanism installed within the propulsor. A method for efficient swimming is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09334033&OS=09334033&RS=09334033
owner: DEKA Products Limited Partnership
number: 09334033
owner_city: Manchester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140407
---
This application is a Continuation Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 073 343 filed Mar. 28 2011 and entitled Swimming Propulsion Device now U.S. Pat. No. 8 690 617 issued Apr. 8 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 349 384 filed May 28 2010 and entitled Swimming Propulsion Device both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 073 343 is also a Continuation In Part Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 186 719 filed Aug. 6 2008 and entitled Swimming Propulsion Device which is now U.S. Pat. No. 7 988 508 issued Aug. 2 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 963 587 filed Aug. 6 2007 and entitled Swimming Propulsion Device both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number W911NF 09 C 0031 awarded by the U.S. Army RDECOM ACQ CTR. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a swimming device and more particularly to a swimming propulsion device.

Swimming propulsion devices have a long history and have included swimming fins hand fins and personal water propellers. These devices had been designed to enhance the speed efficiency and mobility of bodily moment during surface and underwater swimming.

The typical approach to designing swimming fins and hand fins has been to enlarge the effective area of a swimmer s hands or feet. Although swimming fins and hand fins may have increased a swimmer s propulsion through the water because the fins are worn on each hand or each foot minimizes the fins effectiveness. For the same amount of energy expended without the fins swimmer s increased their propulsion minimally.

One improved swimming fin has been a monofin where the swimmer wears one fin that fits over both his feet. However there is some instability in the swimmer s swimming form when using monofins which results in limited propulsion. As the swimmer uses the monofin the swimmer s legs do not maintain a stable non flailing motion that helps in propelling through water.

Accordingly there is a need for a more effective swimming propulsion device that includes amongst other characteristics more comfort easier wearability and provides greater stability and efficiency for the swimmer.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a swimming propulsion device is disclosed. The swimming propulsion device includes a fuselage having a forward section and an aft section at least one propulsor pivotally connected to the forward section of the fuselage at least one stabilizer affixed to the aft section of the fuselage a swimmer connection mechanism removably attached to the fuselage by a locking mechanism whereby the swimmer connection mechanism connects a swimmer to the device and a control mechanism attached to the fuselage and the propulsor.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention may include one or more of the following wherein the locking mechanism further includes a first member and a second member wherein the first member and second member removably mate by a ball and pin mechanism wherein the swimmer connection mechanism further includes a first member a second member and a fastening mechanism including a buckle and strap wherein the first member and second member are attached to one another by the latching mechanism and wherein the first member and second member are ergonomic to a swimmer s bottom leg wherein the swimmer connection mechanism further includes wherein the first member and the second member include a hard layer and a foam layer wherein in the swimmer connection mechanism the second member further includes a cleat for attachment to a locking mechanism member wherein the fuselage further includes a wedge shaped forward section and a front edge a top edge and bottom edge wherein the front edge the top edge and the bottom edge are tapered and wherein the forward section is positioned on a lower plane than the aft section wherein the fuselage further including a first fuselage member and a second fuselage member wherein each of said fuselage member connected to a propulsor member wherein the fuselage further includes a forward member and an aft member wherein the forward member and aft member are slidably connected whereby the fuselage is adjustable in length wherein each propulsor includes a first propulsor member and a second propulsor member wherein the first propulsor wing member is releasably and foldably attached to the second propulsor member whereby the first propulsor wing members folds back when released from the second propulsor member wherein the second propulsor member is attached to the fuselage wherein the swimmer connection mechanism further comprising at least one housing for receiving a swimmer s feet and or wherein the device further including a fin attachment mechanism.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a swimming propulsion device is disclosed. The swimming propulsion device includes a fuselage having a forward section and an aft section at least one propulsor pivotally connected to the forward section of the fuselage a swimmer connection mechanism removably attached to the fuselage by a locking mechanism whereby the swimmer connection mechanism connects a swimmer to the device the swimmer connection mechanism further including a first member a second member and a fastening mechanism including a buckle and strap wherein the first member and second member are attached to one another by the latching mechanism and wherein the first member and second member are ergonomic to a swimmer s bottom leg.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention may include one or more of the following at least one stabilizer affixed to the aft section of the fuselage a control mechanism attached to the fuselage and the propulsor a fin attachment mechanism and or wherein the second member further including a cleat for attachment to a locking mechanism member.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for efficient swimming disclosed. The method includes attaching at least one cuff to the bottom part of a swimmer s leg adjusting the at least one cuff using a buckle and strap mechanism and attaching the at least one cuff to a swimming propulsion device.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a swimming propulsion device is disclosed. The swimming propulsion device includes a fuselage having a forward section and an aft section at least one propulsor pivotably connected to the forward section of the fuselage at least one stabilizer pivotably connected to the aft section of the fuselage a swimmer connection mechanism removably attached to the fuselage by a locking mechanism whereby the swimmer connection mechanism connects a swimmer to the device and a control mechanism installed within the propulsor and attached to the fuselage.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention may include one or more of the following wherein the locking mechanism further includes a first member and a second member wherein the first member and second member removably mate by a ball and latching mechanism wherein the swimmer connection mechanism further includes a first member a second member and a fastening mechanism including a buckle and strap wherein the first member and second member are attached to one another by the fastening mechanism and wherein the first member and second member are ergonomic to a swimmer s bottom leg wherein the swimmer connection mechanism further includes wherein the first member and the second member include a hard layer and a foam layer wherein in the swimmer connection mechanism the second member further includes a cleat for attachment to a locking mechanism member wherein the fuselage further includes a rounded arrow shape and may be smooth and also narrow as the sides meet wherein each propulsor includes a first propulsor member and a second propulsor member wherein the first propulsor wing member is pivotably and foldably attached to the second propulsor member whereby the first propulsor wing members folds back when released from the second propulsor member and wherein the second propulsor member is attached to the fuselage.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a swimming propulsion device is disclosed. The device includes a fuselage having a forward section and an aft section at least one propulsor pivotally connected to the forward section of the fuselage at least one stabilizer affixed to the aft section of the fuselage a swimmer connection mechanism removably attached to the fuselage by a locking mechanism whereby the swimmer connection mechanism connects a swimmer to the device and a control mechanism attached to the fuselage and the propulsor. The at least one propulsor including at least two portions connected one to another at a propulsor connection point adjacent to the fuselage and wherein the two portions of the at least one propulsor fold towards one another about the connection point and at least one stabilizer including two portions connected one to another at a stabilizer connection point adjacent to the fuselage and wherein the two portions of the at least one stabilizer fold towards one another about the stabilizer connection point.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention may include one or more of the following wherein the locking mechanism further includes a first member and a second member wherein the first member and second member removably mate by a ball and pin mechanism wherein the swimmer connection mechanism further includes a first member a second member and a fastening mechanism including a buckle and strap wherein the first member and second member are attached to one another by the latching mechanism and wherein the first member and second member are ergonomic to a swimmer s bottom leg wherein the swimmer connection mechanism further includes wherein the first member and the second member include a hard layer and a foam layer wherein in the swimmer connection mechanism the second member further includes a cleat for attachment to a locking mechanism member wherein the fuselage further includes a wedge shaped forward section and a front edge a top edge and bottom edge wherein the front edge the top edge and the bottom edge are tapered and wherein the forward section is positioned on a lower plane than the aft section wherein the fuselage further including a first fuselage member and a second fuselage member wherein each of said fuselage member connected to a propulsor member wherein the fuselage further includes a forward member and an aft member wherein the forward member and aft member are slidably connected whereby the fuselage is adjustable in length wherein each propulsor includes a first propulsor member and a second propulsor member wherein the first propulsor wing member is releasably and foldably attached to the second propulsor member whereby the first propulsor wing members folds back when released from the second propulsor member wherein the second propulsor member is attached to the fuselage wherein the swimmer connection mechanism further comprising at least one housing for receiving a swimmer s feet and or wherein the device further including a fin attachment mechanism.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a swimming propulsion device is disclosed. The swimming propulsion device includes a fuselage having a forward section and an aft section at least one propulsor pivotally connected to the forward section of the fuselage a swimmer connection mechanism removably attached to the fuselage by a locking mechanism whereby the swimmer connection mechanism connects a swimmer to the device the swimmer connection mechanism further including a first member a second member and a fastening mechanism including a buckle and strap wherein the first member and second member are attached to one another by the latching mechanism and wherein the first member and second member are ergonomic to a swimmer s bottom leg and wherein the at least one propulsor comprising at least two portions connected one to another at a connection point adjacent to the fuselage and wherein the two portions of the at least one propulsor fold towards one another about the connection point.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a swimming propulsion device is disclosed. The swimming propulsion device includes a fuselage having a forward section and an aft section at least one propulsor pivotably connected to the forward section of the fuselage a swimmer connection mechanism removably attached to the fuselage by a locking mechanism whereby the swimmer connection mechanism connects a swimmer to the device the swimmer connection mechanism further including a first member a second member and a fastening mechanism including a buckle and strap wherein the first member and second member are attached to one another by the latching mechanism and wherein the first member and second member are ergonomic to a swimmer s bottom leg.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention may include one or more of the following at least one stabilizer affixed to the aft section of the fuselage a control mechanism installed within the propulsor and attached to the fuselage and or wherein the second member further including a cleat for attachment to a locking mechanism member.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention may include a control mechanism wherein the control mechanism comprising a torsion bar having a distal end and a proximal end a torsion bar anchor fixed to the proximal end of the torsion bar and an internal structure within the propulsor member containing the distal end of the torsion bar. The internal structure allows for rotation of the distal end of the torsion bar and the torsion bar anchor fixes the proximal end of the torsion bar in place.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for efficient swimming disclosed. The method includes unfolding a propulsor unfolding a stabilizer attaching at least one cuff to the bottom part of a swimmer s leg adjusting the at least one cuff using a buckle and strap mechanism and removably attaching the at least one cuff to a swimming propulsion device by an attachment mechanism.

These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when read in conjunction with the appended claims and accompanying drawings.

As used in this description and the accompanying claims the following terms shall have the meanings indicated unless the context otherwise requires.

The term airfoil is used herein to include any type of aerodynamic or hydrodynamic foil shape. Thus although the exemplary embodiment and various other embodiments are described herein with reference to airfoil the scope the apparatus includes any other foil shapes. In some instances the term airfoil may also be referred to as simply foil or hydrofoil. 

The term cuff is used herein to describe any type of device capable of capturing the lower leg of a swimmer. Thus although the exemplary embodiment and various other embodiments are described herein with reference to cuffs the scope the apparatus includes any other sports fastening device.

The term swimmer attachment mechanism may be used synonymously with swimmer attachment mechanism or attachment mechanism .

The swimming propulsion device described herein provides increased efficiency for a swimmer as well as stability and comfort. Referring to one embodiment of the swimming propulsion device is shown. For the purposes of this description the embodiment shown in will be referred to as an exemplary embodiment. Other embodiments are contemplated some of which will be discussed herein. The swimming propulsion device may include but is not limited to a fuselage having a forward section and an aft section. The terms forward section and aft section are used for ease of description. Attached to the forward section of the fuselage may be at least one propulsor . The propulsor may include but is not limited to an airfoil cable plate bushings an axle and bushing housing . Similarly at least one stabilizer may be attached to the rear of the fuselage using a mounting bracket . Also affixed to the aft section of the fuselage may be an attachment mechanism . This mechanism may include but is not limited to cuffs cleats locking mechanisms and mounting brackets . Furthermore a control mechanism may be connected to the fuselage and the propulsor . The control mechanism may include but is not limited to handle spring and cable .

Still referring to in operation in one embodiment of the device the swimmer bends primarily at the knees with some contraction at the hips forcing the propulsors away from the body while being counteracted by the presence of the stabilizers in a hybrid kicking squatting motion. The force of this motion is transferred to the propulsors and drives the propulsors through the water in a downward motion. The swimmer then straightens their legs forcing the propulsors in an upward motion against the resisting water. Given the constrains to the range of motion provided by the control mechanism the propulsors take an angle of attack with respect to their desired free position. This angle of attack allows the propulsors to generate lift which is then transferred to forward motion of the swimmer. As the swimmer continues this oscillating movement a fishtail like movement is created that propels the swimmer through the water.

Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment the cable plate may be pivotally connected to the forward section of fuselage using an axle . The axle may be positioned within the bushing housing . The cable plate may be attached to an axle using a tapered plug not shown . The axle may have threaded ends to receive the tapered plug. In addition at each end of the axle are a plurality of slots allowing the end of the axle to expand against the inner surface of the cable plate when the tapered plug is installed. In yet other embodiments the axle may be attached to the cable plate using a trantorque keyless bushing. In the exemplary embodiment the axle may have a diameter sufficient to be received within the bushing housing and not adversely affecting the radius of the airfoil shaped propulsor .

Still referring to in alternate embodiments the axle may be connected directly to the airfoil . In these embodiments the airfoil may have an aperture at the proximal end to receive the axle . This aperture may have a diameter sufficiently large to slidably receive the axle . In other embodiments the airfoil may contain a plastic insert to increase the structural strength of the airfoil . This plastic insert may be located at the proximal end of the airfoil to receive the axle . The axle may be connected directly to the airfoil by drilling and pinning the axle to the airfoil upon assembly. Other embodiments may include an opening in the airfoil providing access to the end of the axle within the airfoil . With the end of the axle exposed a bolt may be installed to secure the airfoil to the axle . Upon assembly of the axle to the airfoil the opening in the airfoil may be covered using tape or other suitable material. In some embodiments a shim may be installed on the axle between the propulsor and the fuselage to prevent the propulsor from contacting the fuselage during operation of the device . Other methods of connecting the airfoil to the axle may include but are not limited using a keyway.

Referring to and and additionally one embodiment of the swimming propulsion device is shown. For the purposes of this description the embodiment shown in will be referred to as another exemplary embodiment. Other embodiments are contemplated some of which will be discussed herein. The swimming propulsion device may include but is not limited to a fuselage having a forward section a middle section and an aft section. The terms forward section middle section and aft section are used for ease of description. Attached to the forward section of the fuselage may be at least one propulsor . The propulsor may include but is not limited to an airfoil propulsor connector and a bushing assembly . The bushing assembly may include but is not limited to at least one bushing an axle and a bushing housing . In another exemplary embodiment the bushing housing may be made of anodized aluminum however any coating to make the bushing housing resistant to corrosion may be used. Similarly at least one stabilizer may be attached to the rear of the fuselage using a stabilizer folding mechanism . Also affixed to the aft section of the fuselage may be an attachment mechanism . This attachment mechanism may include but is not limited to cuffs cleats locking mechanisms and mounting brackets . Furthermore a control mechanism as shown in may be within the airfoil and connected to the propulsor connector . The control mechanism as shown in may include but is not limited to a torsion bar a hex piece and a torsion bar anchor .

Also referring to and in operation in one embodiment of the device the swimmer bends primarily at the knees with some contraction at the hips forcing the propulsors away from the body while being counteracted by the presence of the stabilizers in a hybrid kicking squatting motion. The force of this motion is transferred to the propulsors and drives the propulsors through the water in a downward motion. The swimmer then straightens their legs forcing the propulsors in an upward motion against the resisting water. Given the constrains to the range of motion provided by the torsion bar anchor in the control mechanism and the bushing assembly the propulsors take an optimum angle of attack with respect to their allowable movement. The torsion bar anchor may prevent the airfoil from twisting beyond the optimum angle of attack. This angle of attack allows the propulsors to generate lift which is then transferred to forward motion of the swimmer. As the swimmer continues this oscillating movement a fishtail like movement is created that propels the swimmer through the water.

Still referring to and additionally in another exemplary embodiment the propulsor connector may be rotatably connected to the forward section of fuselage using an axle . The axle may be positioned within the bushing housing . The propulsor connector may be connected to the first propulsor member using a root block . The root block may contain a keyway not shown . The propulsor connector may be attached to the axle using the keyway and at least one c clip . The axle may contain a torsion bar anchor to be received by the keyway in the root block . In the exemplary embodiment the axle may have a diameter sufficient to be received within the bushing housing and not adversely affecting the radius of the airfoil shaped propulsor .

The fuselage provides the central element to the swimming device and is the structure in which the additional elements of the swimming device are attached at least indirectly including but not limited to the cuffs stabilizer and propulsor. Additionally the fuselage serves as the element of the swimming device which allows for power from the swimmer to be transferred to the propulsor to propel the swimmer and the device through the water.

The design of the fuselage as well as the attachment of the various elements may vary in various embodiments. Some embodiments of the design of the fuselage may accommodate particular intended uses of the device or the size of the intended user. However these may not be the only factors in the fuselage design.

The fuselage may be any length desired. Some factors taken into consideration when determining the length of any embodiment of the fuselage include weight. Where weight is a concern the fuselage may be sized accordingly. However in some embodiments where a longer fuselage and therefore heavier fuselage is used this would require other components of the swimming propulsion device to be correspondingly more buoyant. Weight may also be an issue for another reason. Since the swimming device is portable a higher weight may make the device more difficult to carry.

Another consideration with respect to the length of the fuselage is efficiency i.e. the swimming device in the exemplary embodiments is designed to increase swimming efficiency i.e. allow the swimmer to travel faster and further using less oxygen energy . A longer fuselage can be more efficient and produce higher swimming velocities.

With respect to length the fuselage length will dictate the arc of the stroke for the swimmer. A shorter fuselage will provide a smaller arc. A longer fuselage will provide a larger arc which may be desired for higher swimming efficiency. However in some embodiments the desired efficiency may be mitigated against the desire for a particular length to accommodate an object held by the swimmer for example a front mounted Draeger under water breathing system herein referred to as a Draeger .

Referring now to these figures illustrate a fuselage also identified as of of the exemplary embodiment of the swimming propulsion device . The fuselage may have a forward section and an aft section . In the exemplary embodiment the center of the aft section may be located on a different horizontal plane than the center of the forward section . The different orientations of the forward section and the aft may not be required in all situations but under some circumstances the different horizontal planes may be desirable. Some embodiments of the fuselage may be designed to accommodate an object to be worn or carried by a swimmer of the device. Some object may run along the length of the body such as a Draeger. In these embodiments the fuselage design allows the swimmer to fully operate the device without interference from the object that the swimmer is carrying. In other embodiments the fuselage may include an angular section to position the forward end away from the operator of the device . Similarly in an alternate embodiment the fuselage may include a slight offset along the length of the fuselage.

The shape of the fuselage may vary in the various embodiments. The shapes described herein are meant as exemplary embodiments. Other shapes and designs are considered as any shape that may accommodate the intended use are possible. Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment the forward section of the fuselage may have an arrow shape to reduce drag and water turbulence. Similarly in alternate embodiments the forward section may be wedge shaped to improve the operation of the swimming propulsion device through the water. In yet another embodiment the front section of the fuselage may be larger than the aft section to reduce water resistance during operation of the device . In still other embodiments of the swimming propulsion device the fuselage may have a uniform shape and or thickness.

Apertures may be included in the fuselage. These apertures may vary in size plurality and location depending on a number of factors including but not limited to intended use of the device. Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment an aperture may be located within the forward section of the fuselage to receive propulsors . The aperture may be at any location within the fuselage but in the exemplary embodiment the aperture is preferably positioned near the forward edge of the fuselage . This position allows the swimmer to obtain increased propulsor travel causing larger lifting force to act on the device . In the exemplary embodiment the aperture may be any size sufficient to support installation of the bushing assembly .

As discussed above the fuselage serves as a central connecting point for other elements of the device including the cuffs stabilizer and propulsors. The connection to the fuselage may vary for various elements and throughout various embodiments. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the propulsor installation or connection to the fuselage is supported by a bushing assembly. However in various other embodiments another type of assembly or connection may be used.

Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment the aperture may contain a bushing assembly to support the installation of the propulsors not shown shown in . The bushing assembly may consist of but is not limited to a bushing housing for slidably receiving at least one bushing . The housing may be attached to the forward section of the fuselage using fasteners. In addition the housing may be manufactured from but not limited to nickel plated aluminum. Positioned within the bushing housing may be at least one bushing for slidably receiving the axle supporting the propulsors . The bushing may be manufactured from plastic. In the exemplary embodiment a bushing is located within each end of the bushing housing . Furthermore the axle may be manufactured from but not limited to stainless steel titanium or carbon steel. In other embodiments a bearing assembly may be installed within the forward section of the fuselage to support the axle rather than the bushing assembly .

The length of the fuselage may vary. However in the exemplary embodiments the fuselage has sufficient length to provide adequate thrust to propel the device through the water. Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment the fuselage may have a length of 27 inches. In addition the edges of the fuselage may be tapered to facilitate movement through the water and in particular the edges of the forward section where velocities are greatest.

Still referring to the fuselage may be manufactured from any material but material characteristics of low water absorption structural strength and lightweight are desirable. In the exemplary embodiment the fuselage is manufactured from G10 FR4 plastic. Other materials may be used to manufacture the fuselage including but not limited to Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Now referring to another embodiment of the fuselage is shown. This embodiment of the fuselage may have a forward section and an aft section similar to the previously described embodiment. In addition the forward section may also include an aperture for receiving a bushing or bearing assembly. The fuselage may include a plurality of apertures for adjusting for example the position of the fuselage with respect to the attachment mechanism allowing the swimmer s lower legs to be planar with the swimmer s body. In other embodiments the attachment mechanism may not be adjustable.

As discussed above various modifications to the fuselage may be made to impart a variety of characteristics. For example variations to decrease the weight or make the fuselage more suited to a desired use. In one embodiment shown in the fuselage may also include additional apertures . These apertures may be added to reduce the weight of the device . The apertures may be located any where in the fuselage but the apertures are preferably located near the ends of the fuselage where the bending stresses in the fuselage are smaller. In further embodiments the apertures may be covered to reduce drag as the water flows passed the fuselage . Coverings may include but are not limited to tape. In yet other embodiments the covering may be fiberglass or carbon fiber material attached to the fuselage with an epoxy. In still further embodiments the apertures may be filled with foam before installing the covering. The installation of foam material may increase the buoyancy of the device . In such an embodiment the foam material may be but is not limited to a closed cell foam. In other embodiments having no material within the apertures the covering material may form a seal to prevent water from filling the covered apertures adversely affecting the buoyancy of the device .

Again as described above the shape of the fuselage may vary depending on the desired characteristics. The shape may include for example an L shape. Now referring to one embodiment of an alternate shaped the fuselage may be L shaped. This fuselage configuration may allow a swimmer to carry an object on their chest and or mid section of the body without impeding the swimmer s ability to fully operate the device . Similar to previous embodiments the fuselage may have a forward section and an aft section . The forward section may have an aperture for receiving a bushing or bearing assembly. In addition similar to the previous embodiment the fuselage may include a plurality of apertures for reducing the weight of the device .

Referring to alternate embodiments may include a fuselage having a tow hook. Typically the tow hook may be attached to the aft section of the fuselage. In other embodiments however the tow hook may be attached to the attachment mechanism to maintain stability of the device . The tow hook may be used to attach objects such as bags or other equipment to the propulsion device . Some examples of a tow hook include but are not limited to a loop hook or a carabiner. In some embodiments the tow hook may also be removable.

The fuselage in some embodiments may include features that allow for adjustability of the length. One such embodiment is shown in . This embodiment is one embodiment of an adjustable fuselage. An adjustable fuselage may be included on the swimming propulsion device. In the adjustable embodiment shown fuselage may include but is not limited to a forward member an aft member a first side member and a second side member . The aft member may have a channel for slidably receiving the aft end of the forward member . In this embodiment the aft end of the forward member may have a slightly smaller width when compared to the front end of the forward member . Upon positioning the forward member at a desired location within the channel the side members and secure the forward member in position by clamping the forward member between the two side members and . In this embodiment the side members and may be attached using fasteners. However in various other embodiments the side members and may be attached using other methods.

Referring now to another embodiment of the fuselage is shown. In this embodiment the fuselage includes two members a first fuselage member and a second fuselage member . The two fuselage members in the configuration as shown form a split body fuselage that allows for the swimmer to be positioned between the two members . This embodiment may be desirable for the purpose of positioning the swimmers such that they can carry a Draeger for example in front of them as they swim.

Now referring to in another exemplary embodiment the fuselage may have a rounded arrow shape for a sleek look and to reduce drag and water turbulence. The fuselage may be smooth and also narrow as the sides meet. In one embodiment of this embodiment the fuselage may have a forward section and an aft section. The fuselage may have a top edge and bottom edge. In another exemplary embodiment the fuselage may have a handle to facilitate ease of carrying the device. The handle may be located towards the aft section of the fuselage and it may be on the top edge of the fuselage . In other embodiments the handle may be in situated in different regions of the fuselage . The handle may be an external member having a hand piece as shown in . The hand piece may be removable and in some embodiments the hand piece may be the sheath of a dive knife not shown . In another exemplary embodiment the handle may alternately be part of the fuselage wherein the fuselage extends further above the device with a section removed from which a swimmer may hold and carry the device as shown in . This fuselage extension handle may prevent debris from entering the cervix of the handle .

Still referring to and additionally because weight is a concern and the swimmer may want the fuselage slightly longer but not want the increased weight some embodiments may include a shark fin aperture wherein this shark fin aperture removes weight from the fuselage therefore making the device easier to carry and maintain a favored buoyancy. This shark fin is a large aperture strong enough to support equipment that may be attached and therefore may be used as a towing feature in some embodiments. Another exemplary embodiment may contain a circle aperture towards the aft section of the fuselage to provide room for a hooking device such as but not limited to a carabineer not shown as to allow the swimmer to carry equipment using the circle aperture . Another exemplary embodiment may contain both the shark fin aperture as well as the circle aperture .

Still referring to and in another exemplary embodiment a cord attachment may be attached to the device . This cord may be but is not limited to a bungee and may be attached to the handle . The bungee may keep the stabilizer members and the propulsor members together when carrying the swimming propulsion device . This bungee may also loop through the shark fin when the device is in use to not have unfastened objects dangling on the device . The bungee could additionally be used to as an additional element for carrying equipment or baggage when using the device . In another exemplary embodiment the handle may have at least one hook to attach the bungee cord . The hook may be but is not limited to a location on the handle that allows the bungee to surround the fuselage and attach to the hook and remain there until the swimmer moves the bungee .

The swimming device may be used by a swimmer to improve their speed and efficiency in the water. The propulsors are elements of the swimming device that contribute to the movement of the swimmer and device through the water. The propulsors are attached to the fuselage described above.

The propulsors as shown in the various embodiments herein may be any size desired. As the surface area of the propulsor increases the amount of power created by the propulsors also increases. However propulsors of greater size include a greater weight. Where weight is a concern the propulsors may be sized accordingly. However a smaller propulsor presents less power from the device.

Weight may be an issue for similar reasons as described above with respect to the fuselage. In the exemplary embodiment the propulsors have either a foam core or are hollow inside. Thus although larger propulsors may be used which may increase the total weight of the propulsors this is compensated by the increased buoyancy from their construction. Propulsors weighing less will have less buoyancy which may not be desired.

With respect to the span of the propulsors a shorter span not only weighs less but will be more maneuverable by the swimmer in use. For example the propulsors are located mainly within the swimmer s field of vision. However longer propulsors may present difficulties to the swimmer in avoiding collisions with objects as the longer propulsors may be only slightly within the swimmer s peripheral vision or outside their vision. Thus in the exemplary embodiments the span of the propulsors is shown in the exemplary embodiment to be both maneuverable and provide the desired propulsion in an efficient manner. However in some embodiments the span of the propulsors may be longer than shown and in some embodiments the span may be shorter than the propulsors shown.

Referring now to together with in the exemplary embodiment each propulsor also identified as on may include but is not limited to a first member referred to herein as an airfoil or a first propulsor member and a second member referred to herein as a cable plate or as a second propulsor member. The proximal end of the airfoil may have a slot for receiving the cable plate . The slot may have dimensions sufficient to receive the horizontal member attached to the cable plate . In the exemplary embodiment the cable plate may have a shape and dimension such that it may mate with the airfoil . The span of the cable plate may be any span sufficient to support installation of the axle to the cable plate . In other embodiments the cable plate may be a thin plate directly attached to the proximal end of the airfoil instead of an airfoil shaped member attached to the axle .

Still referring to the airfoil and the cable plate may be mechanically connected with an elastic member not shown . In the exemplary embodiment the elastic member may be a bungee cord. The elastic member may be attached to the airfoil and the cable plate by passing the member through the slot of the airfoil and an aperture see within the horizontal member of the cable plate . After the elastic member is positioned within each component a knot may be tied at each end of the elastic member connecting the airfoil to the cable plate . The elastic member may have a span sufficient to produce a tensional force to maintain the cable plate and airfoil in a mated relationship during operation of the device and allow the airfoil to be collapsibly positioned. In other embodiments the elastic member may be but is not limited to a spring and cable assembly. In this embodiment a spring may be positioned within the airfoil . Attached to the distal end of the spring may be a cable connecting the airfoil to the cable plate . The spring may provide the tensional force to maintain the components in a mated relationship but may be compressed allowing the components to be collapsibly positioned.

Still referring to the airfoil and the cable plate may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material. In the exemplary embodiment the airfoil is manufactured from carbon fiber and the cable plate is manufactured from G10 FR4 plastic. Alternate embodiments may include manufacturing an airfoil and or a cable plate from any other material. In the exemplary embodiments characteristics of the materials include but are not limited to low water absorption structural strength and lightweight. In other embodiments the airfoil may be hollow to vary buoyancy of the device.

Referring now to in the exemplary embodiment the airfoil may have a chord dimension of 3.37 inches a span of 27.0 inches and a thickness of approximately 1.0 inch. In addition the airfoil may have a tapered airfoil shape. In other embodiments the airfoil may have different dimensions but those dimensions may affect the lifting force generated by the device . In the exemplary embodiment a NACA 0030 profile is used.

Referring now to in the exemplary embodiment the cable plate may include a vertical member located at the edge nearest the fuselage. The location of the vertical member near the fuselage reduces additional turbulence created by the propulsor. In other embodiments the vertical member may be located anywhere on the cable plate such that the control mechanism not shown shown in as and described in more detail below may be attached to the vertical member . Within the vertical member may be a plurality of apertures for receiving the control mechanism. Attaching the control mechanism to the vertical member allows the device to maintain a desired propulsor angle. In alternate embodiments the control mechanism may be attached directly to the airfoil or to the horizontal surface of the cable plate .

Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment on the distal end of the cable plate a horizontal member may be included. The member supports the airfoil when the airfoil is in an operating or collapsed position. In use the propulsor may be collapsed by applying a pulling force onto the airfoil pulling the airfoil away from the fuselage. Once the proximal end of the airfoil is beyond the horizontal member of the cable plate rotating the airfoil towards the aft end of the fuselage followed by lowering the airfoil onto the upper surface of the horizontal member as shown in will yield an airfoil collapsed position.

Referring now to alternate embodiments may include airfoils having various shapes. illustrates one embodiment for airfoils having a curved tapered airfoil shape. In other embodiments such as the one shown in an airfoil may include a rectangular shape having a tapered front edge. In other embodiments such as the one shown in an airfoil may include a cable plate having minimal thickness and attached directly to the airfoil rather than the axle not shown shown in as . Referring now to in yet another alternate embodiment airfoil may be one piece having a rectangular airfoil shape without cable plates. In other embodiments winglets may be attached to the distal end of the airfoil. Although these various embodiments of the airfoils have been shown with respect to specific embodiments in other embodiments the various characteristics described may be mixed and matched such that an embodiment may include a number of the characteristics described above.

Referring now to in another exemplary embodiment each propulsor may include but is not limited to a first member referred to herein as an airfoil or a first propulsor member and a second member referred to herein a propulsor connector or a second propulsor member. In another exemplary embodiment the propulsor connector may replace the cable plate shown in and the propulsor may further contain a torsion bar . The torsion bar may be used for controlling the angle of attack of the propulsor and will be further described later on. The proximal end of the airfoil may have a slot for receiving the second propulsor member . The slot may have dimensions sufficient to receive a root block fixedly attached to the second propulsor member . In the exemplary embodiment the second propulsor member may have a shape and dimension such that it may mate with a pivot bar within the airfoil . The span of the second propulsor member may be any span sufficient to support installation of the axle to the second propulsor member .

Still referring to in another exemplary embodiment the airfoil may be manufactured using a urethane reaction in mold. The manufacturing may in some embodiments begin with a stainless steel internal structure then includes a lighter foam core then finishes with an outside RIM material. The finished product is a mold part. The structure stainless steel was chosen for its stiffness and strength. Though stainless steel was chosen for the internal structure this is not the only material that may be used any material with similar stiffness and strength may be used.

Referring now to in another exemplary embodiment each propulsor may include but is not limited to a first member referred to herein as an airfoil or a first propulsor member and a second member referred to herein a propulsor connector or a second propulsor member. The second propulsor member may be made of any material that will take in minimal water and effects of water on the material are minimal such as but not limited to nylon. In another exemplary embodiment the propulsor connector may replace the cable plate shown in and the propulsor may further contain a control mechanism shown in . The control mechanism may contain a torsion bar . The torsion bar may be used for controlling the angle of attack of the propulsor and will be further described later on. The proximal end of the airfoil may have a slot not shown for receiving the propulsor connector . The slot may have dimensions sufficient to receive a root block fixedly attached to the propulsor connector . In another exemplary embodiment the propulsor connector may have a shape and dimension such that it may mate with a pivot bar within the airfoil . The span of the propulsor connector may be any span sufficient to support installation of the axle to the propulsor connector .

Still referring to in another exemplary embodiment the airfoil may be manufactured using a urethane reaction in mold. The making starts with a stainless steel internal structure then includes a lighter foam core then the internal structure and foam core are encompassed with an outside RIM material. The finished product is a mold part. The structure stainless steel was chosen for its stiffness and strength. Though stainless steel was chosen for the internal structure this is not the only material that may be used any material with similar stiffness and strength may be used.

Referring now to and in another exemplary embodiment the airfoil may have a chord dimension of 3.37 inches a span of 27.0 inches and a thickness of approximately 1.0 inch. In addition the airfoil may have a tapered airfoil shape. In other embodiments the airfoil may have different dimensions but those dimensions may affect the lifting force generated by the swimming propulsion device . In another exemplary embodiment a NACA 0030 profile is used.

Still referring to in another exemplary embodiment a root block may be included on the distal end of the propulsor connector . The root block supports the airfoil when the airfoil is in an operating or collapsed position. In use the propulsor may be collapsed by applying a pulling force onto the airfoil pulling the airfoil away from the propulsor connector . Once the proximal end of the airfoil is beyond the root block in the propulsor connector rotating the airfoil towards the aft end of the fuselage shown in followed by moving the airfoil to perpendicular of the root block as shown in and will yield an airfoil in the collapsed position. In some embodiments of another exemplary embodiment the propulsor may include a tightening mechanism on the second propulsor member which hooks onto the first propulsor member further securing the first and second propulsor members respectively together. This tightening mechanism may loosen to allow the swimmer to pull the first propulsor member away from the propulsor connector .

Referring to in another exemplary embodiment a root block may be included on the distal end of the propulsor connector . The root block supports the airfoil when the airfoil is in operation or folded position. The propulsor may contain a pivot bar within the airfoil that pivotably attaches to the root block using a pin in the second propulsor member and anchored at the distal end within the airfoil . The pivot bar is encompassed by a spring that may be used to pull the airfoil towards the propulsor connector when putting the propulsor in the operational form. The spring keeps the propulsor in place for operation and it makes it easier to hold the propulsor in place for the tightening mechanism to take action. This pivot bar allows the airfoil to pivot away from the operating position and move to the collapsed position without detaching the airfoil from the rest of the device. The pivot bar allows the airfoils to collapse vertically along the fuselage shown in when in the folded position. In another exemplary embodiment the pivot bar may be replaced with a cable not shown allowing the airfoil to fold horizontally above the folded stabilizer members .

Now referring to from operating position the propulsor may collapse by applying a pulling force to the first member away from the fuselage and allowing the first propulsor member to separate from the second propulsor member turning and closing the first propulsor member towards the fuselage . This process is then repeated for the other first propulsor member .

The device receives power from a swimmer. The swimmer transfers force to the device. This force is transferred to the propulsors to propel the device through the water.

Thus an attachment mechanism swimmer attachment mechanism swimmer connection mechanism or attachment device is used in the exemplary embodiment to attach the device to the swimmer. Various embodiments of the attachment mechanism include but are not limited to any device or mechanism that may both attach to the swimming device and connect or attach to the swimmer such that the movement or force generated by the swimmer may be transferred to the device. Below various embodiments of the attachment mechanism are discussed. However these embodiments are not meant to be exhaustive as other embodiments or devices are contemplated. Further as used herein the term attachment mechanism and attachment device has the same meaning.

Referring now to in the exemplary embodiment the cuffs are used as the attachment mechanism. Although one cuff is shown in in the exemplary embodiments the device includes two cuffs. However as described in further detail below as the cuffs are removable it may be desirable in some embodiments to include one cuff on the device. In the exemplary embodiment each cuff includes two members. In the exemplary embodiment the cuffs are ergonomically shaped to a swimmer s bottom leg. As discussed below in the exemplary embodiment the cuffs further include a lining that may be shaped to provide further comfort and snug fitting to the swimmer.

As discussed above the attachment mechanism connects the swimmer to the swimming propulsion device. Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment the attachment mechanism may include but is not limited to a mounting bracket a locking mechanism and cuffs . Although not shown in this FIG. the mounting bracket connects to the fuselage.

Referring now to in the exemplary embodiment the mounting bracket may include two flanges connected to the aft section of the fuselage. In the exemplary embodiment the flanges may be manufactured from any type of material but in the exemplary embodiment is manufactured from G10 FR4 plastic material. In alternate embodiments the flanges may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to stainless steel titanium Garolite fiber reinforced plastics continuous woven glass fabric laminate with epoxy resin wood plastic composites or other similar material.

Still referring collectively to in the exemplary embodiment a locking mechanism may be attached to the mounting bracket . The locking mechanism removably attaches the cuffs to the swimming propulsion device. In other embodiments the cuffs may be fixedly attached to the mounting bracket . In the exemplary embodiment the locking mechanism may be manufactured from aluminum. In other embodiments the locking mechanism may be manufactured from other materials including but not limited to stainless steel or titanium. As described below there are many embodiments of the locking mechanism contemplated herein. Any of the embodiments described may be used in conjunction with any of the various embodiments of the various other elements of the device described herein.

Still referring to the locking mechanism may have a first member and a second member . The second member will be referred to herein as a cleat. The first member may be connected to the mounting bracket . In the exemplary embodiment the first member may include a ball positioned on the aft end of the member. The ball guides the cleat into the first member . Located on the forward end of the first member may be a spring loaded pin . This pin secures the cleat to the first member . Furthermore the first member may also include a ball detent mechanism positioned on the top surface of the member . This mechanism assists with the disengagement of the cleat from the first member by providing a vertical force against the bottom surface of the cleat . In addition the cleat may have an indent located on its forward and aft surfaces. The aft indent may receive the ball of the first member . Similarly the indent on the forward surface of the cleat may receive the spring loaded pin . In addition the locking mechanism may also include a second spring loaded pin to secure the first spring loaded pin in the retracted position.

Still referring to in operation the aft end of the cleat may be positioned such that the ball is received within the indent on the aft surface of the cleat. Next the swimmer may lower the front end of the cleat into the first member . As the cleat is positioned in the first member the spring loaded pin engages the indent on the forward surface of the cleat locking the cleat within the first member . The swimmer may disengage the cleat from the first member by pulling the handle of the spring load pin forward. As the pin is moved forward the second spring loaded pin engages the first pin securing the pin in the retracted position allowing the swimmer to fully disengage from the locking mechanism . In addition the ball detent mechanism assists with disengagement of the swimmer from the device by providing a force against the bottom surface of the cleat causing the cleat to move away from the first member .

Referring now to the cleat may be attached to the outer surface of cuffs . The cuffs may include a front member and a back member or a first cuff member and a second cuff member respectively . The front member may be adapted to fit the front of a swimmer s lower leg while the back member may be adapted to fit the back of the swimmer s lower leg. The cuff members and may be manufactured from durable waterproof lightweight material such as fiber reinforced plastic fiberglass carbon fiber or similar. In the exemplary embodiments the cuff members and include a hard shell. In the exemplary embodiment the cuffs may also include a neoprene foam rubber padding or foam layer to provide the swimmer with comfort while using the propulsion device. In other embodiments materials other than or in addition to neoprene may be used for example any type of foam or rubber or other materials used to shape or pad an area intended for use in a water environment. Additionally the cuffs may be custom molded to the exact shape of the swimmers leg for optimum comfort and power transmission. For example in some embodiments this may be done using memory foams where the foam is heated then applied to the swimmer s leg for a predetermined time while the foam cools and maintains the cooled shaped.

Still referring to the exemplary embodiment may include a fastening mechanism connecting the two members and around the swimmer s leg. In the exemplary embodiment the fastening mechanism is a strap and buckle as shown . In the exemplary embodiment the buckle may be a ratchet type mechanism commonly used with water sports footwear ski boots or snowboard bindings. In other embodiments other fastening mechanism may be used including but not limited to hook and loop configurations zippers buttons snaps or other varieties of buckle mechanisms or any other fastening mechanisms. In some embodiments the fastening mechanism may be a strap and grab mechanism where the strap doubles through a grab and secures the strap in a desired location similar to those devices used on backpacks. In one embodiment where a strap is used the strap is made from 1 nylon webbing from McMaster Carr Santa Fe Springs Calif. However in other embodiments the strap may be made from other materials including but not limited to those materials with endurance and strength while wet. In the exemplary embodiment the fastening mechanism is made from plastic but in other embodiments the fastening mechanism may be made from any material including but not limited to stainless steel or titanium. In the exemplary embodiment the fastening mechanism is a plastic generic snowboard binding. However in other embodiments the snowboard binding may be one made by Burton Snowboards Burlington Vt.

Still referring to in operation the swimmer wraps each removable cuff around the lower part of their leg and adjusts the fit with the fastening mechanism . In the exemplary embodiment the swimmer moves the strap to the buckle until the cuffs are comfortable and snug around their legs. The swimmer may secure the fit of the cuff by closing the buckle . The swimmer then snaps the cleats of the cuffs into the locking mechanism on the swimming propulsion device. The attachment of the propulsion device to the cuffs may be but does not necessarily have to be done while the swimmer is in the water.

Below in addition to the embodiments of the locking mechanism described above various addition embodiments of the locking mechanism are described. Referring now to these figures illustrate another embodiment of a locking mechanism that may be used with the device. Similar to the previous embodiment this mechanism includes a first member having a ball a first spring loaded pin a second spring loaded pin and a ball detent mechanism . In addition the mechanism includes a cleat that is received by the first member . The operation of the locking mechanism is similar to the locking mechanism previously described. In the exemplary embodiment of this embodiment of the locking mechanism the locking mechanism is constructed from stainless steel however in other embodiments the locking mechanism may be constructed from any material including but not limited to titanium and plastic.

Referring now to this figure illustrates yet another embodiment of a locking mechanism . The locking mechanism may include but is not limited to a first member and a second member . The second member is now referred to as a cleat. The aft end of the first member has an indent for receiving the aft end of the cleat . In addition the forward end of the first member has a recess for receiving the forward end of the cleat . The cleat may have a ball shaped member attached to the aft end of the cleat which is received by the indent on the aft end of the first member . Attached to the forward end of the cleat is a member for receiving the spring loaded pin . When the forward end of the cleat is received within the forward end of the first member the pin engages the cleat securing the cleat to the first member. To disengage the cleat from the first member the operator pulls the cable connected to the pins to remove the pins and release the cleat from the first member. Other embodiments may not include a cable . In yet still other embodiments the cable from each locking mechanism may be connected such that the swimmer may disengage both cuffs from locking mechanisms simultaneously.

Referring now to another embodiment of the attachment mechanism is shown. The attachment mechanism may include a mounting bracket and a locking mechanism . In this embodiment the mounting bracket is a single plate attached to the top surface of the aft section of the fuselage rather than the sides. This mounting bracket may be connected to the fuselage using fasteners control mechanism . The mounting bracket may be manufactured from any material including but not limited to those materials including characteristics including but not limited to low water absorption structural strength and lightweight.

Still referring to the locking mechanism may include a handle assembly . This assembly secures the cleat in place when the cleat is slidably received by the locking mechanism . In operation the swimmer may position one end of the cleat into the end of the locking mechanism opposite of the handle assembly . Next the swimmer inserts the second end of the cleat into the end of the locking mechanism nearest to the handle assembly . With the cleat received within the locking mechanism the handle assembly may be rotated such that the assembly secures the cleat within the mechanism. In another embodiment the handle assembly of the locking mechanisms may be connected such that the swimmer only need pull one handle assembly to release both cuffs from the locking mechanisms .

Referring now collectively to some embodiments of the swimming propulsion device may include an attachment mechanism that does not include a locking mechanism. In these embodiments the swimming propulsion device may include a mounting bracket having a base an aft plate and a forward plate as shown on . The base may be adjustable to allow the swimmer to reposition the aft plate or the forward plate . Other embodiments may not include a mounting bracket but rather have the forward plate and aft plate attach directly to the fuselage . In addition the aft plate and forward plate may have a plurality of slots or channels for slidably receiving cuffs . In this embodiment the mounting bracket may be manufactured from any material including but not limited to those materials including characteristics including but not limited to low water absorption structural strength and lightweight.

Still collectively referring to similar to the embodiments described above cuffs may be used to attach the device to the swimmer. In this embodiment the cuffs may be similar to the cuffs described above but may include a plurality of T shaped members in place of cleats. In operation the swimmer positions the cuffs such that the T shaped members are slidably received within the channels of the aft plate . The channels may have a width that is greater than the small diameter section of the T shaped member but is smaller than the large diameter section of the T shaped member . The large diameter section of the T shaped members prevents vertical displacement between the swimmer and the device. Thus when the T shaped members are inserted within the channels of the forward plate and aft plate the swimmer is physically attached to the device.

Referring collectively to another embodiment of the attachment mechanism is shown. This attachment mechanism may attach directly to the aft end of the fuselage not shown . In this embodiment the attachment mechanism may include mounting brackets and that define a slot . The attachment mechanism may be positioned on the fuselage such that the aft end of the fuselage is located within the slot . The attachment mechanism may be connected to the fuselage using fasteners that pass through apertures in the mounting brackets and and the aft section of the fuselage. In the exemplary embodiment of this embodiment the attachment mechanism may be manufactured from a fiberglass and wood composite. Other materials that may be used to manufacture the attachment mechanism in various embodiments those materials include but are not limited to carbon fiber or plastic. In operation the swimmer may slide his legs into the channels located on either side of the attachment mechanism . The channels may contain the lower part of the swimmer s legs attaching the swimmer to the propulsion device . The channels may be sufficiently elastic or flexible to allow the swimmer to manipulate the opening of the channels to allow the swimmer to insert his her leg. In addition the attachment mechanism may have channels that sufficiently wrap around the swimmer s leg to maintain a secure connection between the swimmer and the device but also allow sufficient access for the swimmer to insert and remove his her leg from the device. In alternate embodiments the channels may be tapered or custom fitted to the swimmer s lower legs.

In various additional embodiments of the swimming device the attachment mechanism may include embodiments designed to attach the swimmer s feet or feet ankle area to the device rather than the embodiments described above which are designed to attach the swimmer s legs to the device. Referring now to one embodiment of the foot attachment mechanism is shown. In this embodiment a platform may be pivotally attached to the aft section of the fuselage. Attached to the platform may be a housing for receiving the swimmer s feet. The housing in some embodiments is a bootie type housing for feet. In some embodiments each foot may be independent of the other. In addition to securing the swimmer s feet some embodiments of this embodiment of the swimming device may include a strap not shown or series of straps designed to attach the upper part of the swimmer s leg to the fuselage of the swimming device. This embodiment may provide greater comfort to the swimmer.

Referring now to and and in another exemplary embodiment the mounting bracket may include two flanges connected to the aft section of the fuselage . In another exemplary embodiment the flanges may be manufactured from any type of material but in another exemplary embodiment is manufactured from G10 FR4 plastic material. Still referring collectively to and and in another exemplary embodiment a locking mechanism may be attached to the mounting bracket . The locking mechanism removably attaches the cuffs to the swimming propulsion device .

Still referring to and additionally the locking mechanism may involve two parts a first member herein called a mating part or mounting attachment and a second member herein called a cleat . In another exemplary embodiment the mounting attachment may have raised sides to assist the swimmer with finding the proper location for the cleat to attach the cuff . The walls may also provide strength in the mounting attachment . The mounting attachment may be connected to the mounting bracket . In another exemplary embodiment the first member may include a ball positioned on the aft end of the member . The ball guides the cleat into the first member . In another exemplary embodiment the mounting attachment may utilize an over the center latch to enter and exit the device easily. The over the center latch may involve at least one spring to provide a secure attachment of the cuffs to the mounting attachment . The cuffs may include a fastening mechanism to secure the swimmer within the cuffs . The fastening mechanism may be but not limited to a generic snowboard binding . In another exemplary embodiment the cuffs may contain slits on the side nearest the binding to allow the swimmer to move the bindings to an angle to ease adjustments.

Still referring to the indent on the forward surface of the mounting attachment may receive the top portion of the latch . In addition the locking mechanism may also include a cantilever spring to secure the latch on the mounting attachment in a locked position. In another exemplary embodiment the mating part and cleat may be manufactured from plastic.

Still referring to in operation the aft end of the cleat may be positioned such that the ball is received within the indent on the aft surface of the cleat . Next the swimmer may lower the front end of the cleat into the first member . As the cleat is positioned in the first member the over the center latch engages the indent of the forward surface of the cleat locking the cleat within the first member by closing the latch below the cleat . The swimmer may disengage the cleat from the first member by pulling the handle of the over the center latch up and forward from under the cleat . As the handle is moved up the cantilever spring pushes the cleat up from the locked position to disengage the swimmer from the device .

Still referring to the cleat may be attached to the outer surface of cuffs . The cuffs may include a front member and a back member or a first cuff member and a second cuff member respectively . The front member may be adapted to fit the front of a swimmer s lower leg while the back member may be adapted to fit the back of the swimmer s lower leg. The cuff members may be manufactured from durable waterproof lightweight material such as fiber reinforced plastic fiberglass carbon fiber or similar. In another exemplary embodiment the cuff members include a hard shell made from pressure form molded kydex. However any thermoplastic may be used in place of kydex also a pressure formed mold is not required to make the hard shell in other embodiments. Another exemplary embodiment uses kydex however other tough plastics and carbon fiber may be used in place of the kydex. In another exemplary embodiment the cuffs may also include an EVA foam rubber padding or foam layer not shown to provide the swimmer with comfort while using the propulsion device.

Still referring to another exemplary embodiment may include a fastening mechanism connecting the two members around the swimmer s leg. In another exemplary embodiment the fastening mechanism is a strap and buckle as shown in . In one embodiment of another exemplary embodiment the buckle may be a ratchet type mechanism commonly used with water sports footwear ski boots or snowboard bindings. In another exemplary embodiment the fastening mechanism is made from plastic but in other embodiments the fastening mechanism may be made from any material including but not limited to stainless steel or titanium. In one embodiment of another exemplary embodiment the fastening mechanism is a plastic generic snowboard binding. Another exemplary embodiment may further involve Velcro to attach any excess part of the strap to the outer side of the front cuff member . This Velcro secures the excess strap for the swimmer s safety as to prevent the strap from snagging anything in the water.

The swimming propulsion device includes a stabilizer. The stabilizer is provided to act against the force applied to the propulsor. Various embodiments of the stabilizer may be used with the device some of which are described herein. However although the various embodiments of the device shown herein include a stabilizer in other embodiments the device does not include a stabilizer. In these embodiments the swimmer may use traditional swimming fins as a stabilizing device. Although in these embodiments the swimming device may not be optimally stabilized the decrease in stabilization may be mitigated by an increased maneuverability.

The stabilizer as shown in the various embodiments herein may have any size desired. However the same considerations regarding buoyancy weight and size as described above with respect to the propulsors also may be applied to the stabilizers.

With respect to the span of the stabilizer a shorter span not only weighs less but will be more maneuverable by the swimmer in use. For example as the stabilizer is located behind the swimmer s field of vision a longer stabilizer may present difficulties to the swimmer in avoiding collisions with objects. Thus in the exemplary embodiments the span of the stabilizer is shown to be shorter in span than the propulsors. Where the propulsors are within the swimmer s field of vision if the swimmer is traveling in a straight path if the propulsor clears an object there s a high probability that the stabilizer will as well.

However in some embodiments the span of the stabilizer may be longer than the propulsors and in some embodiments the span may be shorter than the propulsors but longer than shown in the accompanying figures herein. In the exemplary embodiments of the stabilizer the stabilizer is designed to work outside of the turbulent vortex given off by the swimmer.

Referring collectively to the exemplary embodiment of the swimming propulsion device may include at least one stabilizer also identified as on . As described above some embodiments of the device do not include a stabilizer. The stabilizer may be attached to the aft section of the fuselage not shown . The stabilizer may be angled such that at the mid point during the swimming stroke the stabilizer is parallel to the plane of forward motion thereby reducing drag as the swimmer travels through the water. In addition the stabilizer may be positioned on the aft section of the fuselage allowing the stabilizer to rotate with the device rather than moving vertically during operation. Furthermore in the exemplary embodiment the stabilizer may have sufficient surface area to provide support for the swimmer to prevent flailing or waiving of his legs during use the propulsion device .

Still referring to the stabilizer may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material. In the exemplary embodiment the stabilizer is manufactured from a combination of wood and carbon fiber. Alternate embodiments may include a stabilizer manufactured from any other material and in some embodiments the material may have one or more of the following characteristics low water absorption structural strength and lightweight.

Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment the stabilizer may include a single member or body having a tapered airfoil shape on top and in the exemplary embodiment the stabilizer has a NACA profile on top with a flat bottom surface as shown on . In the exemplary embodiment the stabilizer has a chord length of 4.6 inches a span of 40 inches and a thickness of 0.88 inches. In other embodiments the span or chord length may vary to increase the stability of the device or may vary to decrease the weight of the device. In addition the stabilizer may include a notch located on the aft edge of the stabilizer to accommodate the swimmer s feet. In other embodiments the shape of the stabilizer may include but is not limited to tapered airfoils or rectangular airfoils. The airfoil shape shown in the exemplary embodiment is only one embodiment. However other airfoil shapes may be used. Similarly in alternate embodiments the stabilizer may be curved and or have tubercles.

Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment the stabilizer may be fixedly mounted to the aft section of the fuselage. In addition the stabilizer may also be removably attached to the fuselage . In this embodiment a mounting bracket not shown shown in as may be affixed to the top surface of the stabilizer . A pin secures the mounting bracket to the fuselage. In operation the stabilizer may be removed from the fuselage by removing the pin. When the pin is completely removed the stabilizer may be rotated downwardly until the mounting bracket is orientated such that the bracket may be removed from the fuselage. In yet further embodiments the stabilizer may be collapsibly attached to the fuselage using an elastic member similar to the method previously described for the propulsors herein.

Still referring to in other embodiments the stabilizer may be adjustably mounted allowing the swimmer to change the angle of the stabilizer. Changing the angle of the stabilizer may be desirable if the swimmer is towing another swimmer or an object. By changing the angle of the stabilizer the swimmer may ensure his legs stay relatively stable as he uses the propulsion device .

Still referring to although in the exemplary embodiment as described above the stabilizer is a single member or body in other embodiments the stabilizer may consist of a first member and second member as shown on . This embodiment may further include where the stabilizers and hingedly attach to the aft section of the fuselage to allow the stabilizers to collapse. In some embodiments the stabilizers and may have curved proximal ends and be located at a distance from the fuselage. This provides clearance to fold the stabilizers and . In another embodiment a tow hook may be attached directly to the stabilizers and as shown in .

Now referring to and in another exemplary embodiment the stabilizer may comprise a first member and a second member . An embodiment of another exemplary embodiment may include where the stabilizer members are hingedly attached to a stabilizer folding mechanism allowing the stabilizer to collapse to a carrying position from the operating position. The stabilizer folding mechanism may include a securing mechanism to prevent the stabilizer members from moving when in the locked position. The folding mechanism may also include a shifting mechanism to change the angle of the stabilizer members from the operating angle to the folding angle. Another exemplary embodiment utilizes a cam lock latch as a securing mechanism and a thumb lever mechanism for the shifting mechanism . In other embodiments of the exemplary embodiment the securing mechanism may be a lock and release lever and a movable pin for the shifting mechanism . The lock and release lever may utilize a spring to force the locking mechanism into a locked position while the lever may be pulled by the swimmer to allow release. This embodiment may be beneficial in allowing easy release when the swimmer desires while not allowing the swimmer to release accidentally. In another embodiment the shifting mechanism may create a clicking noise notifying the swimmer the appropriate angle has been reached. In some embodiments the shifting mechanism may not make any noise at all. The folding angle may be approximately perpendicular to the fuselage as to clear the rest of the swimming propulsion device and fold to allow the two members to meet. This is one embodiment in other embodiments the folding angle is not perpendicular but rather at any angle appropriate for a compact manner of carrying the device .

Still referring to in another exemplary embodiment the stabilizer folding mechanism may be comprised of several elements. The stabilizer folding mechanism may contain at least one metal plate at least one plastic plate a bottom cover plate an upper portion containing the shifting mechanism and the locking mechanism . The plastic plate may be used for stability and slidability as to allow the stabilizer members to rotate to a desired direction. The metal plate may be utilized for stability purposes.

Still referring to and the stabilizer folding mechanism may use a C shaped slot used to keep the stabilizer members within the range of one of the two angles. In another exemplary embodiment this C shaped slot may contain an angled upper portion allowing the pin in the stabilizer folding mechanism to become locked in the operating position. This angle may make it easier to change to an angle of operation and secure the folding mechanism into this position until the swimmer desires to change the angle. The lower portion of the C shaped slot may be rounded slightly to allow the folding mechanism to enter a folding position and remain there but not locking it in place. Once the thumb levers are moved from the locked position the stabilizer members are free to move between the two settings of operation or folded. Due to the C shape slot it is unlikely the stabilizer members will stop at an angle not specified. Once the stabilizer members have been moved to the folding angle the swimmer may then move the stabilizer members towards the fuselage until a point wherein the device is easier to carry. The location of the stabilizer members for easy carrying may be but is not limited to where the stabilizer members distal ends meet. Once the members are at the desired location the swimmer may engage the locking mechanism preventing the stabilizer members from moving or shifting from the desired position.

Still referring to and in another exemplary embodiment the stabilizer may be manufactured using a urethane reaction in mold. The making of the stabilizer starts with an aluminum internal structure then utilizes a lighter foam core then coats the foam and aluminum with an outside RIM material . The finished product is a mold part. The structure aluminum was chosen for its stiffness strength and how light the material is. In other embodiments the internal structure may be a welded tubing wherein the tubes decrease in size as the tubing reaches towards the distal end of the stabilizer member .

In another exemplary embodiment the stabilizer has a NACA profile on top with a flat bottom surface as shown in . In another exemplary embodiment the stabilizer has a chord length of 4.6 inches a span of 40 inches and a thickness of 0.88 inches. The airfoil shape shown in another exemplary embodiment is only one embodiment.

Referring now to the exemplary embodiment of the swimming propulsion device includes a control mechanism also identified as of . The control mechanism allows the device to maintain an optimal angle of attack of the propulsor thus maximizing propulsion through the water as the propulsors pivot against the pressure of the resisting water. By maintaining an optimal angle of attack the lift produced by the propulsors and therefore forward motion is maximized. The mechanism may be attached parallel to the fuselage. In the exemplary embodiment the control mechanism is attached to the aft section of the fuselage and the propulsor. In other embodiments the control mechanism may be attached at different locations. For example in one embodiment the control mechanism may be attached to the mounting bracket of the attachment mechanism. In the various embodiments described herein the control mechanism includes a device for adjusting the angle of the propulsors by adjusting the tension of the cable. However in other embodiments the angle of the propulsors may be fixed.

Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment each propulsor may have a control mechanism . In alternate embodiments one control mechanism may be used but having two mechanisms distributes the rotational forces applied to the control mechanism . In the exemplary embodiment the control mechanism may include but is not limited to a handle a spring and a cable . In alternate embodiments however the angle of attack may also be maintained by having cables without springs.

Still referring to handle of the control mechanism may be rotatably attached to the aft section of the fuselage . In the exemplary embodiment the handle may be manufactured from G10 FR4 plastic. In other embodiments the handle may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to aluminum or stainless steel.

Still referring to the spring may be connected to the handle allowing the tension in the cable to increase or decrease when the handle is rotated. The spring may be but is not limited to a torsion or coil spring. In the exemplary embodiment the spring is a stainless steel extension spring having a spring rate of 1.57 pounds per inch part number 94135K57 from McMaster Carr Co. Elmhurst Ill. 60126 2081. One end of the spring may be connected to the handle . Similarly the other end of the spring may be connected to the propulsor also using a cable .

Still referring to in the exemplary embodiment the cable may be manufactured from braided stainless steel. The cable may have a size sufficient to withstand the applied forces produced when the angular position of the propulsors changes as the swimmer operates the device. In the exemplary embodiment the cable is wire rope having a diameter of approximately 0.034 inches Part Number 34235T22 from McMaster Carr Corporation 600 N County Line Rd Elmhurst Ill. 60126 2081 However in various other embodiments the type material and diameter of the cable may vary.

Referring now to various embodiments of the swimming propulsion device may include another embodiment of the control mechanism for optimizing the angle of attack for the propulsor. The control mechanism may include but is not limited to a knob assembly spring and a cable . In this embodiment the spring and the cable may be the same or similar to those components previously described herein. The knob assembly may be rotatably attached to the aft section of the fuselage . This assembly may include a ball detent mechanism not shown positioned between the knob and the fuselage . The detent mechanism secures the knob in place preventing the knob from rotating freely. The knob assembly may also include a cable . The cable connects the knob assembly and the spring . In operation the angle of attack of the propulsor may be adjusted by rotating the knob assembly . As the knob assembly is rotated the tension on the cable may be increased or decreased changing the angle of attack of the propulsor.

Referring now to in another embodiment of the swimming propulsion device another embodiment of the control mechanism may be used. The control mechanism may include but is not limited to a first member a second member a pin not shown a spring and a cable . The first member may be affixed to the aft section of the fuselage. The member may have an aperture within the forward surface of the member for slidably receiving the second member . In addition the first member may also have an aperture within the bottom surface of the member for slidably receiving a pin. The second member may have a plurality of apertures for receiving the pin. In addition the second member may also include an aperture at one of end the member to receive the spring as shown in . Attached to the other end of the spring may be a cable connecting the spring to the propulsor.

Still referring to in operation the angle of attack for the propulsor may be adjusted by changing the position of the second member relative to the first member . Removing the pin from the bottom of the first member allows the second member to be re positioned. Once the second member is in the desired position the pin is installed within the bottom of the first member and slidably received within one of the apertures of the second member thereby securing the second member in place. Changing the position of the second member may increase or decrease the tension of the spring changing the angle of attack of the propulsor .

Now referring to and and additionally in another exemplary embodiment of the swimming propulsion device may include a control mechanism within the at least one propulsor . The control mechanism allows the propulsor to remain at an optimum angle of attack thus maximizing propulsion through the water as the propulsor pivots against the pressure of the resisting water. By maintaining an optimal angle of attack the lift produced by the propulsors and therefore forward motion is maximized. The mechanism may involve but is not limited to a torsion bar a torsion bar anchor and a slot within the internal structure of the propulsor containing the torsion bar . In another exemplary embodiment the torsion bar may be made of titanium however in other embodiments the torsion bar may be made of materials having the desired properties of strength weight and flexibility. Another exemplary embodiment contains one torsion bar in one propulsor . There is one torsion bar due to the desire to keep a specific spring constant if there was no desire to keep the spring constant there may be more than one torsion bar in various embodiments. In other various embodiments containing the desire for a specific spring constant there may be more than one torsion bar in the device however the torsion bars may be of a smaller size and smaller spring constant to sum to the desired spring constant. Titanium was chosen because it does not deform as easily as some other metals if pushed beyond its stress point. A metal that will not deform at the maximum force used in the device would be a metal that may be used in the torsion bar .

Still referring to and in another exemplary embodiment the torsion bar possesses a rectangle cross section however a round cross section may be used in other embodiments. The torsion bar allows for twisting of the at least one propulsor allowing the propulsor to enter the optimal range for the angle of attack. The control mechanism may include a torsion bar anchor which in conjunction with other elements prohibits the torsion bar from rotating beyond the optimal angle of attack. In another exemplary embodiment the torsion bar anchor may securely fasten to a hex piece the hex piece may contain a bushing. The hex piece connects to the proximal end of the torsion bar and securely fastens the proximal end of the torsion bar allowing the distal end of the torsion bar to twist. The torsion bar anchor slides through the keyway of the root block to mate with the hex piece . The distal end of the torsion bar may be located within the slot within the internal structure of the propulsor . This slot allows for the twisting of the distal end of the torsion bar while the proximal end of the torsion bar is anchored securely to refrain from movement and prevent the torsion bar from leaving the range of optimal angle of attack. In another exemplary embodiment the torsion bar anchor may be manufactured from stainless steel and the hex piece may be manufactured from aluminum or stainless steel. This is just one embodiment of the torsion bar anchor in other embodiments the torsion bar anchor may be manufactured from other materials including but not limited to aluminum stainless steel and titanium.

Referring now to these figures illustrate another embodiment of the swimming propulsion device . This embodiment may include but is not limited to an adjustable fuselage propulsors stabilizers a control mechanism and an attachment mechanism cuffs not shown . The propulsors may have a tapered airfoil shape and be pivotally connected to the fuselage . Also the propulsors may include a cable plate positioned at the proximal end of the propulsor . The cable plate provides a location for connecting the control mechanism to the propulsors .

Still referring to the stabilizer may include two members adjustably attached to the aft section of the fuselage . In other embodiments the stabilizers may be fixedly attached to the fuselage . In the embodiment shown in the stabilizers may be airfoil shaped but in other embodiments the stabilizers may have any shape including but not limited to those shapes previously described herein.

Still referring to the attachment mechanism may include but is not limited to a pair of cuffs not shown a set of locking mechanisms and a mounting plate . In this embodiment the locking mechanisms may include a handle assembly for securing the cuffs to the mounting plate .

Referring now to other embodiments may include propulsors having a curved shape and an adjustable fuselage . illustrates the fuselage with a side member removed.

Referring now to these figures illustrate a swimming propulsion device having an adjustable fuselage similar to the previously described fuselage shown in as . Pivotally attached to the forward section of the fuselage may be propulsors . These propulsors may have a tapered airfoil shape. In addition a cable plate may be attached to proximal end of the propulsors providing an attachment location for the control mechanism . Furthermore in this embodiment the stabilizer may be one member or one body and fixedly attached to the aft section of the fuselage with a bracket . The stabilizer may have an airfoil shape and may include a notch located on the aft edge of the stabilizer for accommodating the swimmer s feet. The stabilizer may also have a larger span than the propulsors .

Still referring to the attachment mechanism may include but is not limited to a pair of cuffs a set of locking mechanisms and a mounting plate . The mounting plate may be attached to the top surface of the fuselage . Attached to the mounting plate are the locking mechanisms . These mechanisms may use a handle assembly for securing the cuffs to the mounting plate as previously described. In alternate embodiments any one of the disclosed attachment mechanisms may be included in the swimming device .

Still referring to in the embodiment shown the control mechanism may be attached to the fuselage . The control mechanism may be similar to the mechanism shown in and described previously herein. This embodiment may include one control mechanism for each propulsor . In other embodiments the control mechanism may be any of the previously described mechanisms for optimizing the angle of attack of the propulsor to maximize propulsion through the water as the propulsors pivot against the pressure of the resisting water.

Referring now to these figures illustrate an alternate embodiment of the swimming propulsion device wherein the mounting plate may be attached to the bottom surface of the fuselage . In this configuration a member is positioned between the mounting plate and the locking mechanism to raise the position the locking mechanisms. The mounting plate may be attached to the bottom of the fuselage allowing the device to be closer to the swimmer s body.

Referring now to these figures illustrate an alternate embodiment of the swimming propulsion device . This embodiment may include a fuselage having the center of the forward section located on a different horizontal plane than the center of the aft section. In addition edges of the fuselage and in particular the edges of the forward section where velocities are greatest may be tapered facilitating movement through the water.

Still referring to the propulsors may be pivotally connected to the forward section of the fuselage . These propulsors may have rectangular airfoil shape. In other embodiments the propulsors may have different shapes including but not limited to tapered airfoils or curved airfoil shapes. Similar to previous embodiments the propulsor may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to fixedly attached to the aft section of the fuselage may be a stabilizer having a tapered airfoil shape. In this embodiment the stabilizer may be one member or one body fixedly mounted to the fuselage. In other embodiments the stabilizer may be removably attached to the fuselage. In addition the stabilizer may include a notch on the rear edge of the stabilizer accommodating the swimmer s feet. Similar to previous embodiments the stabilizer may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to some embodiments of the swimming propulsion device may include an attachment mechanism . This mechanism may include but is not limited to a pair of cuffs a locking mechanism and mounting brackets . The mounting brackets may be attached to the aft section of the fuselage . These brackets may support the locking mechanisms . The locking mechanisms may be similar to the previously described embodiments herein and may include a handle assembly for securing the cuffs to the mounting bracket . In other embodiments any one of the previously described attachment mechanisms may be included in the propulsion device .

Still referring to this embodiment of the swimming propulsion device may also include a control mechanism. Although not shown the control mechanism may be any of the previously described mechanisms for optimizing the angle of attack of the propulsor to maximize propulsion through the water as the propulsors pivot against the pressure of the resisting water.

Referring now to these figures illustrate another embodiment of the swimming propulsion device having an L shaped fuselage . This fuselage configuration may allow a swimmer to carry an object on their chest and or mid section of the body without impeding the swimmer s ability to fully operate the device . In addition the edges of the fuselage may be tapered facilitating movement through the water.

Still referring to the propulsors may have a rectangular airfoil shape. In addition these propulsors may be pivotally attached to the fuselage . In other embodiments the propulsors may be removably or collapsibly attached to the fuselage . Similar to previous embodiments the propulsor may be manufacture from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to the stabilizers may be attached to the aft section of the fuselage near the attached mechanism . The stabilizers may be fixedly attached to the fuselage . In another embodiment the stabilizers may be adjustably attached or collapsibly attached to the fuselage . Other similar embodiments may include a stabilizer being one piece and including a notch for accommodating the swimmer s feet. Similar to previous embodiments the stabilizer may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to the propulsion device may include an attachment mechanism . This mechanism may include but is not limited to a pair of cuffs locking mechanisms and mounting brackets . The mounting brackets may attach to the aft section of the fuselage . These brackets may support the locking mechanism . The locking mechanisms are similar to the previous embodiments and may include a handle assembly for securing the cuffs to the mounting brackets . In other embodiments any one of the previously described attachment mechanisms may be included in the propulsion device .

Referring now to this embodiment of the swimming propulsion device is similar to the embodiments shown in only this embodiment includes a control mechanism . The control mechanism may also be included in the embodiments shown in . The control mechanism may be similar to the mechanism shown in and described previously. In some embodiments one control mechanism may be included for each propulsor . In other embodiments the control mechanism may be any one of the previously described mechanisms for optimizing the angle of attack of the propulsor to maximize propulsion through the water as the propulsors pivot against the pressure of the resisting water.

Referring now to these figures illustrate yet another embodiment of the swimming propulsion device . This embodiment may include a fuselage having the center of the forward section located on a different horizontal plane than the center of the aft section. In addition edges of the fuselage and in particular the edges of the forward section where velocities are greatest may be tapered facilitating movement through the water. Similar to previously describe embodiments the fuselage may be manufacture from materials including but not limited to G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to in some embodiments the propulsors may be pivotally attached to the forward section of the fuselage . In addition the propulsors may have a tapered airfoil shape. Furthermore the propulsors may include a cable plate attached to the proximal end of the propulsors as shown in . The cable plate provides a location for adjustably attaching the cable of the control mechanism to the propulsor . Similar to previous embodiments the propulsor may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to the stabilizer may be fixedly and adjustably attached to the aft section of the fuselage . In this embodiment the stabilizer may be one member or one body but in other embodiments the stabilizer may be two or more members sections or bodies. Furthermore the stabilizer may have a tapered airfoil shape and may include a notch for accommodating the swimmer s feet. The stabilizer may have a smaller span length than the propulsors as illustrated in . Similar to previous embodiments the stabilizer may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to also mounted to the aft section of the fuselage may be an attachment mechanism . In one embodiment the mechanism may include a pair of cuffs a locking mechanism and a pair of mounting brackets . The mounting brackets may attach to the aft section of the fuselage and support the locking mechanism . In this embodiment the locking mechanism may include a handle assembly as shown previously in . In other embodiments another embodiment of the locking mechanism may be used for example as illustrated on and described above. In some embodiments the locking mechanism may be similar to the mechanism shown in and described previously herein.

Referring now to this embodiment of the swimming propulsion device includes a control mechanism . The control mechanism may include but is not limited to a spring and a cable . In this configuration one end of the spring may be connected directly to the aft section of the fuselage or mounting brackets . The other end of the spring may be attached to a cable . This cable may connect the spring to the propulsor by attaching to the cable plate as shown in both . This embodiment may include one control mechanism for each propulsor . In other embodiments the control mechanism may be any of the previously described mechanisms for optimizing the angle of attack of the propulsor to maximize propulsion through the water as the propulsors pivot against the pressure of the resisting water.

Referring now to these figures illustrate another embodiment of the swimming propulsion device . This embodiment includes but is not limited to a fuselage propulsors a stabilizer an attachment mechanism a fin attachment mechanism and a control mechanism . Also shown in is a pair of swimming fins attached to the device using the fin attachment mechanism . The fins are shown on the device to illustrate one possible method of attaching fins to the device. Although the figures shown herein represent some embodiments in other embodiments the fin attachment mechanism is attached to the fuselage on a swimming propulsion device that does not include a stabilizer.

Still referring to the fuselage may include a forward section and an aft section located on different horizontal planes as described previously and shown on herein. In other embodiments the fuselage may have a uniform shape and thickness. In yet other embodiments the fuselage may have an L shape or may also include tapered edges facilitating movement through the water. The fuselage may have any of the various features described above with respect to the various embodiments of the fuselage. In addition the fuselage may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to propulsors may be pivotally and collapsibly attached to the forward section of the fuselage . In this embodiment the propulsors may have a tapered airfoil shape. However in other embodiments the propulsors may have a shape similar but not limited to the propulsor shapes previously described herein. Similar to previously described embodiments the propulsors may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to the stabilizer may be fixedly and removably attached to the aft section of the fuselage . In this embodiment the stabilizer may be one piece but in other embodiments the stabilizer may be two pieces. Furthermore the stabilizer may have a tapered airfoil shape and may include a notch for accommodating the swimmer s feet. Similar to previously described embodiments the stabilizer may be manufactured from materials including but not limited to plastic G10 FR4 Garolite fiber reinforced plastic wood plastic composite or other similar material.

Still referring to also mounted to the aft section of the fuselage may be an attachment mechanism . In one embodiment the mechanism may include a pair of cuffs locking mechanisms and a pair of mounting brackets . The mounting brackets may be attached to the aft section of the fuselage and support the locking mechanism . In this embodiment the locking mechanism may be similar to mechanisms previously described herein and illustrated in . Some embodiments of the attachment mechanisms may not include a locking mechanism as described herein and illustrated in but may include any locking mechanism suitable for the purpose.

Still referring to these figures also illustrate a fin attachment for securing a pair of swimming fins to the device . In operation the fin attachment may be raised to a vertical position as shown in . With the mechanism in the vertical position the fins may be attached to the fin attachment by connecting one end of a cable not shown to the fin attachment mechanism then wrapping the fins with the cable and securing the other end of the cable to an attachment point . In other embodiments the fins may be secured to the fin attachment mechanism using for example but not limited to rope bungee cords or webbing. The swimming fins may be attached to the device while the swimmer is operating the device. When the fin attachment is not in use the attachment may be folded towards the forward end of the device as shown in .

Still referring to this embodiment of the swimming propulsion device may include a control mechanism . The control mechanism illustrates one possible adjustable control mechanism but in other embodiments the control mechanism may be any of the previously described mechanisms for optimizing the angle of attack of the propulsor to maximize propulsion through the water as the propulsors pivot against the pressure of the resisting water.

The swimming propulsion device may be used to decrease the amount of energy amount of oxygen and the average heart rate while swimming a given velocity a swimmer expends while using the device as compared with the use of swimming fins alone as shown in human testing. A number of figures are shown herein representing data from human use tests performed. The swimming propulsion device was performance tested in the Moving Flow Pool MFP against standard swim fins which represents the baseline for comparison. Each test subject was asked to swim against a fixed water velocity using first standard swim fins and next the swimming propulsion device. The water velocity varied from 0.6 to 1.5 knots. During each test several metabolic parameters were measured oxygen consumption heart rate and blood lactate level. Oxygen consumption and heart rate were measured continuously while blood lactate level could only be measure at the completion of the test.

Test duration was typically 15 minutes in length. Typically heart rate and oxygen consumption reached steady state during the first 5 minutes of the test. Once steady state was achieved data was recorded and averaged for the next 10 minutes. Only steady state values were used in the reported data.

Some test subjects were unable to complete the higher velocity standard swim fin tests. In addition some test subjects had elevated blood lactate levels in excess of 4 mmol liter at the completion of the test. In either case the efforts were noted as unsustainable.

Referring now to this figure illustrates the amount of energy a swimmer used while swimming at various water velocities. Metabolic cost in Watts was calculated from the amount of oxygen consumed. Power may be calculated because the oxygen rate is known i.e. is measured and the fuel source is estimated i.e. ratio of carbohydrates protein and fat . From inspection shows as the velocity of the water increases a swimmer using the swimming propulsion device expends significantly less energy than a swimmer using fins. Thus from this date the swimming propulsion device may allow for a swimmer to swim further distances with less energy as compared with a swimmer using swimming fins.

Referring now to this figure illustrates the amount of oxygen consumed by a swimmer at various swimming speeds using fins and the swimming propulsion device. The chart shows that a swimmer using the propulsion device may consume less oxygen than a swimmer using swimming fins for all swimming speeds. The difference in the amount of oxygen consumed by a swimmer using the propulsion device versus a person using swimming fins becomes significant as the swimmer s speed increases. The lower amount of oxygen consumed by the swimmer using the propulsion device may allow the swimmer to swim for longer durations than someone using swimming fins.

Referring now to this figure illustrates a swimmer s heart rate while swimming using the propulsion device and swimming fins at various velocities. The chart shows that a person using swimming fins has a greater heart rate than one using the propulsion device when swimming in water having greater velocities. The higher the water velocity the more significant is the difference between the heart rate for a swimmer using fins versus a person using the swimming propulsion device. The greater the swimmer s heart rate the more stress the swimmer is experiencing. Using the swimming propulsion device may reduce the swimmer s heart rate and the stress experienced by the swimmer. With the swimmer experiencing less stress may swim for longer periods of time and or further distances.

The various embodiments of the swimming propulsion device described have been tested for efficiency. The tests were conducted using a mechanical test fixture dyno constructed to oscillate the device s propulsors through the water of the MFP. The test fixture allowed for the determination of the propulsive power generated by the propulsors. A pair of propulsors was attached to the end of a pivoting arm which represented the fuselage of the OFD. An electric motor was used to oscillate the arm and propulsor assembly. Input power to the electric motor could then be measured. In addition a load cell was incorporated into the test fixture to allow for the measurement of the propulsive force of the foils. The water speed was fixed at various velocities from 0.5 to 1.5 knots. Since the propulsive force and water speed were known propulsive power was able to be calculated. Also since the input power to the electric motor was know this allowed for the calculation of propulsive efficiency.

Referring now to this figure illustrates the efficiency of various designs of the swimming propulsion device for different rates of operating strokes called cadences for a water velocity of 1.0 knots. The figure shows that a swimming propulsion device with a propulsor design having a National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics NACA designation of 0030 and a span of 27 inches provides the greatest amount of efficiency at various cadence rates. Other similar designs having tubercles on the leading edge of the propulsor or a smaller propulsor span were not as efficient. Similarly propulsor designs having a NACA designation of 0033 and a span of 21 inches were also less efficient than the exemplary embodiment.

Referring now to this figure illustrates the efficiency of various designs of the swimming propulsion device for different cadence rates for a water velocity of 1.3 knots. Similar to the previous figure the exemplary embodiment having a propulsor with a NACA profile designation of 0030 and a span of 27 inches had the greatest efficiency at all cadence rates. Moreover the addition of tubercles to the leading edge of the propulsor did not increase the efficiency of the propulsor design. Other propulsor designs having a NACA designation of 0033 had varying levels of efficiency but all of these designs had an efficiency that was significantly lower than the exemplary embodiment.

Referring now to these figures depict the efficiency of the exemplary embodiment of the swimming propulsion device versus the amount of spring tension applied to the propulsors for various cadence rates at a water velocity of 1.0 and 1.3 knots. The negative spring tension numbers indicate that the spring has no pre load on the spring to produce any displacement. Conversely the positive numbers identify a spring displacement indicating an initial pre load on the spring. Referring specifically to the greatest efficiency occurred with a spring displacement of approximately zero to 0.5 inches for a water velocity of 1.0 knots. This spring displacement indicates that the device operates efficiently when the spring is at its natural length. Referring now to this figure depicts the efficiency of the exemplary embodiment of the swimming propulsion device versus the amount of spring tension applied to the propulsors for various cadence rates at a water velocity of 1.3 knots. Similar to the previous figure the greatest efficiency occurs with a spring displacement of approximately zero to 0.5 inches.

While the principles of the invention have been described herein it is to be understood by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation as to the scope of the invention. Other embodiments are contemplated within the scope of the present invention in addition to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

