---

title: Methods and apparatus for non-contact radio frequency detection and automatic establishment of corresponding communication channel
abstract: Methods and apparatus for establishing secure communications are disclosed. An identifier is received from a personal object such as a ring. This identifier is received, for example, through a non-contact near field communication. The identifier is recognized and associated to a mobile terminal device of a user, the mobile terminal device being separate from the object. Then, a secure communication channel is established with the mobile terminal device over another connection that preferably provides a secure communication channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648014&OS=09648014&RS=09648014
owner: 
number: 09648014
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140317
---
This application claims priority to provisional application Ser. No. 61 799 891 filed on Mar. 15 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to establishing secure communication channels and more particularly to methods and apparatus for non contact radio frequency detection and automatic establishment of a corresponding communication channel.

Methods and apparatus for establishing secure communications are disclosed. An identifier is received from a personal object such as a ring. This identifier is received for example through a non contact near field communication. The identifier is recognized and associated to a mobile terminal device of a user the mobile terminal device being separate from the object. Then a secure communication channel is established with the mobile terminal device over another connection that preferably provides a secure communication channel. The present invention can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

Many personal devices such as smartphones may be equipped with an RFID. For example a Smartphone may be placed in proximity to Point of Sale POS terminal and the RFID is recognized. This is done through Near Field Communication NFC a very simple way to communicate the RFID without using much or any battery. Once the RFID is recognized more rich communications may occur between the smartphone and the POS. The rich communication capabilities are preferred because the corresponding transaction may entail credit card and other information etc. They may also require more communication capability or bandwidth than the first communication channel for RFID can handle.

However carrying the personal device around and getting it out of one s pocket or purse etc. to make a payment can be a hassle. Additionally exposing the personal device may present a theft or other security issue.

According to this description an article having the RFID and the personal device with rich communications are separated. Preferably the RFID object is an article that is easy to wear or carry such as a wrist band a ring a watch a key chain or any typically inanimate object one might carry wear or have on one s person.

Although they are separated the RFID article and the personal device are not completely disassociated from each other. Instead they are paired according to a pairing scheme which allows the RFID to be associated with the personal device.

When the RFID article is placed in proximity with the POS terminal the RFID is recognized and this prompts a separate communication channel between the POS terminal and the personal device which may remain concealed. Preferably the separate communication channel is one with a range greater than that provided by NFC such as WIFI or Bluetooth. This means that the personal device would need to be in general proximity with the POS terminal according to whatever the range of the separate communication channel would be but would not need to be placed within the closer proximity of the RFID as required according to the technology used for the initial identification e.g. NFC .

The POS terminal is just one example of a services access point secure access to which is described herein. For example the access point may be an entry location of a public transportation system e.g. subway . Here the entry location may include a turnstile or other similar location having a pad that is used to recognize users entering the system. In this example the RFID object may be placed in proximity in the pad to prompt the sequence that accommodates separate preferably secure communications with the personal device.

The Access Point may be a computing device with a processor and memory with the memory storing program code executable by the processor to carry out the functions described herein including but not limited to those provided by the communication management module RFID reader and secure communication module .

The personal device is similarly a computing device with a processor and a memory and the memory storing program code executable by the processor to perform the operations described herein. In this example the personal device includes a communication management module and secure communication module . The communication management module includes information that allows the recognition and initiation of secure communications to occur and the secure communication module is used to establish and carry out secure communications with devices such as other personal devices or the Access Point .

The process initiates with the user placing the RFID object within proximity of the RFID reader step . The Access Point thus recognizes the RFID unique to the object and prompts a communication to query for the corresponding personal device Step . The Access Point sends a query to establish communication with the personal device Step . Finally the separate communication channel between the personal device and the Access Point is established and further bidirectional communications may be made Step .

The communications in the second channel between the personal device and the Access Point are preferably secure. One way of doing this is storing a passcode in the personal device. In one example the passcode may match the RFID of the RFID object. Thus in response to the query Step the personal device may return the identifier corresponding to the RFID separately from the RFID object in order to authorize the Access Point to complete the establishment of the secure communication channel.

The secure communications channel may also be configured to include encrypted communications between the personal device and the access point so that private and or sensitive information of the user may be sent to and through the Access Point without compromising its disclosure to others.

The Access Point includes a communication management module an RFID reader a secure communication module and a pairing ID module . The personal device includes the secure communication module and a pairing ID module .

In this example the RFID object and the personal device are paired together. This would typically occur prior to usage of the object and device to initiate the establishment of a secure communication channel. For example the user may conduct a pairing of the RFID object and the personal device at home. This may be done using a website that manages the pairing process. When the pairing is made a PAIR ID is generated that associates the personal device to the RFID object . The RFID object only has its identifier RFID and does not necessarily have the PAIR ID. The PAIR ID may be securely stored on the personal device in the pairing ID module . The personal device does not necessarily have the RFID stored therein.

As part of the pairing scheme the website associates the pairing RFID PAIR ID and can pass this information to the Access Point Step such as through Internet communications a private network or the like. The pairing information may be stored in the Pairing ID module as illustrated.

In this example the user similarly places the RFID object within sufficient proximity of the Access Point and it is read by the RFID Reader Step . The communication module receives the RFID and can retrieve the pairing information from the Pairing ID module . The communication management module then prompts the secure communication module to initiate a query to the personal device Step . In response to this the personal device responds by transmitting the PAIR ID to the Access Point Step . The secure communications module receives this information and the communication management module may then determine whether there is a legitimate pairing of RFID to PAIR ID by accessing the pairing information. If so the secure communication channel is authorized between the Access Point and the personal device . Thereafter communications to and through the Access Point may be made by the personal device. Step .

It should be understood that once the second communication channel is established a variety of communications may then be made. In the example introduced above the personal device user may simply be making a purchase and may complete the transaction once the communication channel is available as described herein. The communications over this channel may be encrypted for security.

In this example once the secure communications channel is arranged financial information and other secure information of the personal device user may be transmitted from the personal device through the secure communication channel to the additional resources in order to complete a purchasing transaction. Thus for example the Access Point may be a point of sale terminal. When making a purchase the user places the object in proximity to the access point and then upon confirmation and establishment of the secure communications channel payment information is provided over the secure communications channel to complete the transaction.

Here the RFID object has the identifier that is initially recognized by the access point Step . Then the personal device is queried by the access point to ensure that is in the location Step . This can be done using the various options described above. After confirmation the access point engages in a secure communication with a transaction completion site Step . This may be performed in connection with a purchase transaction being made by the user such as in a retail location with the Access Point being a POS terminal. However in lieu of having the personal device carry and send the sensitive financial information to complete the purchase the access point uses the identification scheme RFID object plus presence of personal device to initiate the transaction and then engages in follow up communications with the transaction completion site directly preferably using encrypted communications over the secure communications channel. Additionally the transaction completion site may be appraised of the identification of the user account corresponding to the identifier in the RFID object .

In connection with completing the transaction the presence of the user in the particular location may prompt the provision of additional locally applicable resources to the user via still another communication channel .

The system may also operate collectively for several personal device users wherein several users login by placing their RFID object near the RFID reader which may then allow the users to communicate with every other person in the group of users who has similarly logged in. For example WIFI communications involving each of the users may be made following the automatic recognition with each other and or with the Access Point.

A variety of other applications will be apparent and this description is not limited to the specific applications named herein. For example one application may be useful for runners wherein they may make use of recognition via the ring or other object at milestone posts in lieu of having to have their personal device in hand. These and other embodiments are contemplated.

Accordingly this description includes methods apparatuses and computer program products for recognizing an RFID and then automatically authorizing and establishing a separate secure communication channel with a corresponding separate personal device.

When an RFID object is brought into proximity of an RFID reader the corresponding identifier is received through a short range wireless communication. This identifier is recognized and associated to a corresponding mobile terminal device such as a smart phone that the user may have in her pocket at the time.

Following receipt and recognition of the identifier a separate secure communication channel is then established with the mobile terminal device. This separate secure communication channel may be encrypted and may be used for the transmission of sensitive data to and from the mobile terminal device including but not limited to personal information and financial information for the purchase transaction. The separate secure communication channel may use various communication technologies including but not limited to WiFi wireless network or Bluetooth communications.

Here the RFID object is again brought into proximity of the POS terminal or other access point device and the identifier corresponding to the object is thereby received . Again the identifier is preferably a unique identifier corresponding to the object and it is thereby recognized. Additionally a predetermined pairing identifier is associated to the object identifier. The association of the predetermined pairing identifier the object and the user s mobile terminal device may have been made well before the purchasing transaction event. For example the user may engage in a home set up wherein the user pairs the object to the mobile terminal device phone . Alternatively the same association may be made at a retail location of the like.

The association of the object identifier and the predetermined pairing identifier may be passed to merchants or other participants in a scheme wherein the object is used to initiate secure communication channels. Thus the POS terminal will store or have access to the predetermined pairing identifier. The mobile terminal device also stores the predetermined pairing identifier as a result of the pairing process preferably in a secure memory location.

Upon recognition of the object identifier the POS terminal sends a pairing identifier query to the mobile terminal device. The query simply asks for the identifier without the POS terminal revealing its copy of the number. In response to this the mobile terminal device sends its copy of the predetermined pairing identifier e.g. number to the POS terminal. The POS terminal can then confirm a matching condition for the predetermined pairing identifier .

After confirmation that the mobile terminal device has the matching pairing identifier the separate secure communication channel is established with the mobile terminal device.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide non contact radio frequency detection and automatic establishment of a corresponding communication channel. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

