---

title: Touch control terminal and method and device for unlocking touch control
abstract: For unlocking touch control of a touch control terminal, it is detected if any unlock object is selected, then the selected unlock object is tracked to see if the selected unlock object has slid to any of a plurality of unlocking positions outside the corresponding locking zone. If positive, the touch control for a function corresponding to the selected unlock object is unlocked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09323450&OS=09323450&RS=09323450
owner: Tencent Technology (Shenzhen) Company Limited
number: 09323450
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20140527
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT CN2013 073879 filed on Apr. 8 2013 which claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201210139609.8 filed on May 8 2012 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a touch control terminal and more particularly to a touch control terminal having a touch sensitive surface for touch control wherein the touch control may be selectively locked and unlocked. The present invention also relates to a method and device for unlocking the touch control and more particularly to a method and device for unlocking the touch control for a specified function of a touch control terminal.

Nowadays touch control techniques have become a mainstream in multimedia and communication industries. For security and power saving purposes and to avoid unintentional triggering touch control can be locked when a touch sensitive display has been suspended from use for preset duration. Afterwards the touch control can be recovered by an unlocking operation on the touch sensitive display.

Current solutions for unlocking touch control of a touch screen terminal e.g. a smart phone are commonly implemented with a sliding gesture. schematically illustrates unlocking means used in an Apple iPhone wherein the touch control can be unlocked by dragging an unlock image along a channel to the end of the channel e.g. from left to right. and schematically illustrate examples of unlocking means used in mobile phones and for Android . In the example shown in the touch control can be unlocked by dragging an unlock image downwards to a specific position . In the example of the touch control can be unlocked by dragging a selected one of functional icons M P and H to a specific position . While unlocking the touch control a desired function corresponding to the function icon is also activated.

The above mentioned unlocking means even though implemented with different details have a common algorithm for unlocking the touch control. That is it is essential to drag an unlock image from a locking position A to an unlocking position X through a defined path P as schematically illustrated in . Due to confinement of the unlocking position X and the unlocking path P the unlocking means is not user friendly enough.

The present invention provides a method and device for unlocking touch control by way of a sliding gesture on a touch sensitive surface of a touch control terminal which are flexible and user friendly in operation.

The present invention also provides a touch control terminal having a touch sensitive surface for touch control and the touch control may be selectively locked and unlocked in a flexible and user friendly manner.

In one aspect the present invention provides a method for unlocking touch control performed by a touch control terminal. The touch control terminal has a touch sensitive surface on which at least one unlock object and a locking zone corresponding to the at least one unlock object are defined. The method includes steps of 

unlocking the touch control for a function corresponding to the selected unlock object when the selected unlock object is located at any of a plurality of unlocking positions outside the corresponding locking zone.

In another aspect the present invention provides a device for unlocking touch control of a touch control terminal. The device includes 

a correspondence realizing unit configured to realize an unlock object and a locking zone which correspond to a function to be unlocked 

a position correlating unit configured to determine a position relationship between the unlock object and the locking zone wherein the position relationship includes a first relationship that the unlock object is located inside a margin of the locking zone a second relationship that the unlock object is located at the margin of the locking zone and a third relationship that the unlock object is located outside the margin of the locking zone and

a touch control unlocking unit configured to unlock the touch control for a function corresponding to the unlock object if the position relationship between the unlock object and the locking zone meets the third relationship.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a touch control terminal which includes a touch sensitive display and a device for unlocking touch control of the touch control terminal as recited above.

According to the present invention after determining a position relationship between the unlock object and the locking zone which is a first relationship that the unlock object is located inside a margin of the locking zone a second relationship that the unlock object is located at the margin of the locking zone or a third relationship that the unlock object is located outside the margin of the locking zone it may be detected whether the position relationship meets the third relationship. The easy condition allows the slide to unlock operation to be conducted in any of a variety of directions. Therefore touch control of a touch control terminal may be unlocked in a flexible and user friendly manner.

According to the present invention at least one unlock object and at least one locking zone corresponding to the unlock object s are defined on a touch sensitive surface of a touch control terminal e.g. a smart phone a portal media player a tablet a personal digital assistant a personal computer a laptop computer a TV set or any other electronic device executing touch control. In a locked state of the touch control terminal a position of a selected unlock object relative to the locking zone is tracked. For example selection of an unlock object is determined when it is touched by a user. If the selected unlock object is dragged to a position outside the locking zone at least a function corresponding to the selected unlock object is unlocked. Otherwise the touch control remains locked.

For illustrating the objectives technical means and advantages of the present invention in a clear way the present invention is described with reference to the drawings and embodiments. It is to be understood that the embodiments are used for illustrating the present invention rather than limiting the present invention. For example the touch control terminals described hereinafter are touch screen terminals each having a touch sensitive display on which one or more unlock images and one or more locking zones corresponding to the unlock image s are defined. However the touch sensitive surface is not to be limited to a touch sensitive display but may be any other suitable surface for touch control purposes.

A method according to embodiment 1 of the present invention is illustrated with reference to . The steps illustrated in the flowchart of are executed after an unlock object is selected in response to a user s touch.

In Step S an unlock object and a locking zone which correspond to a function to be unlocked are realized. The function to be unlocked for example can be normal displaying of the touch sensitive display or execution of an application program in the touch control terminal. Different functions may be unlocked with the same or different unlock object s corresponding to the same or different locking zone. The association among the unlock object s the locking zone s and the functions has been preset in the touch control terminal and shapes and sizes of the unlock object s and the locking zone s may be any suitable ones advantageous to a user s unlocking operation.

In an example that there are a plurality of unlock objects corresponding to a function to be unlocked the method includes before Step S the following steps displaying the unlock objects corresponding to the function or functions in a locked state after one of the unlock objects is selected in response to a user s touch displaying the selected unlock object while hiding or idling the unselected unlock object s and displaying a locking zone which corresponds to the function to be unlocked and encloses the selected unlock object.

Take the normal displaying of the touch sensitive display as an example of the function to be unlocked. Please refer to . A plurality of unlock objects may be predefined and simultaneously shown on the touch sensitive display in a locked state of the touch control terminal and all the unlock objects are enclosed within a same predefined locking zone which is visibly shown on the touch sensitive display when one of the unlock objects is selected. Alternatively the unlock objects may correspond to different locking zones respectively. When one of the unlock objects is selected its corresponding locking zone is displayed with the selected unlock object as a geometric center thereof. Meanwhile the other unlock objects are hidden or idled to avoid activating any undesired operation and improve efficiency of the unlocking operation. In the example illustrated in the locking zone is rectangular. Alternatively the locking zone may be circular as shown in or elliptic as shown in .

In Step S a position relationship between the unlock object and the locking zone is determined wherein the position relationship is one of a first relationship that the unlock object is located inside a margin of the locking zone a second relationship that the unlock object is located at the margin of the locking zone and a third relationship that the unlock object is located outside the margin of the locking zone.

fetching a position coordinate of a geometric center or specified edge point of the selected unlock object and position coordinates of the margin of the locking zone and

determining a position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone according to the fetched position coordinates.

fetching a pixel coordinate of a geometric center or specified edge point of the selected unlock object and pixel coordinates of the margin of the locking zone and

determining a position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone according to the fetched pixel coordinates.

The means described above can be preset depending on practical requirements. The position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone is determined by comparing the position or pixel coordinate of the geometric center or specified edge point of the selected unlock object with the position or pixel coordinates of the margin of the locking zone and the selected unlock object is detected to be outside the locking zone if the position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone meets the third relationship.

In Step S if the position relationship between the unlock object and the locking zone meets the third relationship i.e. the selected unlock object is moved outside the locking zone touch control for the function is unlocked.

On the contrary the function is kept locked if no unlock object is touched to be selected the selected unlock object is not located outside the corresponding locking zone or the touched and moved unlock object is not released.

For example when a user would like to activate a specified function of the touch control terminal which is in a locked state he may touch the unlock object corresponding to the specified function and move the selected unlock object to any of positions in an unlocking zone outside the locking zone by dragging the unlock object to the position outside the locking zone or touching the display at a desired position outside the locking zone as indicated by a dashed arrow shown in any of C. In the example as shown in the entire unlock object is moved outside the locking zone . In the example as shown in the geometric center of the unlock object has been moved outside the locking zone in spite that there is still a portion of the unlock object inside the locking zone . In the example as shown in a specified edge point e.g. a frontmost point along a moving path of the unlock object has been moved outside the locking zone in spite that the unlock object has not moved outside the locking zone entirely. All the three examples may be examples of successful unlocking depending on the preset unlocking conditions as mentioned above. The unlocking operation may be implemented by for example calling an application programming interface API to enter an operational interface corresponding to the specified function.

In this embodiment the position relationship can only be determined after the touched and dragged unlock object is released from the user s touch. In this way the user may decide not to unlock touch control after an unlock object has been selected and moved but not yet released by just moving it back inside the locking zone.

Embodiment 2 of the present invention will be described hereinafter with reference to the flowchart of .

In Step S an unlock object and a locking zone which correspond to a function to be unlocked are realized. The function to be unlocked for example can be normal displaying of the touch sensitive display or execution of an application program in the touch control terminal. Different functions may be unlocked with the same or different unlock object s corresponding to the same or different locking zone. The association among the unlock object s the locking zone s and the functions has been preset in the touch control terminal and shapes and sizes of the unlock object s and locking zone s may be any suitable ones advantageous to a user s unlocking operation.

In Step S information of the unlock object and information of the locking zone are fetched. The information of the elected unlock object is a position or pixel coordinate of a geometric center or specified edge point of the selected unlock object and the information of the locking zone is position coordinates of a margin of the locking zone.

In Step S a position relationship between the unlock object and the locking zone is determined according to the fetched information. The position relationship is one of a first relationship that the unlock object is located inside the margin of the locking zone a second relationship that the unlock object is located at the margin of the locking zone and a third relationship that the unlock object is located outside the margin of the locking zone. The position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone is determined by comparing the position or pixel coordinate of the geometric center or specified edge point of the selected unlock object with the position or pixel coordinates of the margin of the locking zone and the selected unlock object is detected to be outside the locking zone if the position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone meets the third relationship.

In Step S it is discriminated whether the position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone meets the third relationship. If the position relationship meets the third relationship the process proceeds to Step S to unlock the touch control for the specified function. Otherwise the process proceeds to Step S to keep the touch control for the specified function or the entire touch control terminal locked.

For example the function to be unlocked may be a message application program or a missed call application program. Two unlock objects are predefined to correspond to the message application program and another two unlock objects are predefined to correspond to the missed call application program wherein each of the unlock objects corresponds to and is enclosed by a specific locking zone. In a specific example two unlock objects and two locking zones respectively corresponding to the two unlock objects are used for both the message application program and the missed call application program. In the beginning both the unlock objects are shown on the touch sensitive display of the touch control terminal in a locked state. Then one of the unlock objects is touched so as to be selected. Meanwhile its corresponding locking zone is displayed with the selected unlock object as a geometric center thereof and the other unlock object is hidden or idled to avoid activating any undesired operation and improve efficiency of the unlocking operation. By moving the selected unlock object to a position outside the corresponding locking zone as illustrated in C the touch control for both the message application program and the missed call application program is unlocked.

As described above in Step S the position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone is determined by comparing the position or pixel coordinate of the geometric center or specified edge point of the selected unlock object with the position or pixel coordinates of the margin of the locking zone. In a specific example an absolute value of an abscissa and an absolute value of an ordinate of the unlock object are compared with an absolute value of a maximum one of abscissae and an absolute value of a maximum one of ordinates of the margin of the locking zone respectively. If either of the absolute value of the abscissa and the absolute value of the ordinate of the unlock object is greater than the comparative one of the locking zone it is determined that the unlock object is located outside the locking zone.

The examples and details of means mentioned in Embodiment 1 for unlocking touch control of the touch control terminal as long as no conflict in operations and objectives exists may be applied hereto and are not to be redundantly described herein.

It is understood by those skilled in the art that some or all of the steps described above may be implemented with hardware devices instructed with associated programs. The programs may be stored in a storage media accessible by a computer. The storage media for example may be ROM RAM magnetic disc optical disc etc.

Embodiment 3 of the present invention will be described hereinafter with reference to the functional block diagram of . Please be noted that for focused discussion only elements associated with the present invention are illustrated.

The device as illustrated in is adapted to be used for unlocking touch control of a smart phone or any other touch control terminal having a touch sensitive display such as a mobile phone or a tablet computer. The device according to this embodiment of the present invention includes a correspondence realizing unit a position correlating unit and a touch control unlocking unit wherein 

the correspondence realizing unit realizes an unlock object and a locking zone which correspond to a function to be unlocked 

the position correlating unit determines a position relationship between the unlock object and the locking zone wherein the position relationship is one of a first relationship that the unlock object is located inside a margin of the locking zone a second relationship that the unlock object is located at the margin of the locking zone and a third relationship that the unlock object is located outside the margin of the locking zone and

the touch control unlocking unit unlocks touch control for a function corresponding to the unlock object if the position relationship between the unlock object and the locking zone meets the third relationship.

Shapes and sizes of the unlock object and the locking zone may be preset as mentioned in any of the above embodiments and examples and corresponding relationships therebetween may follow the ones exemplified above.

In a specific embodiment the device for unlocking touch control further includes a defining unit for predefining one or more unlock objects and one or more locking zones for each function to be selectively unlocked. In addition the device further includes 

an unlock object displaying unit displaying the one or more unlock objects corresponding to the function or functions in a locked state 

a state setting unit after one of the unlock objects is selected in response to a user s touch hiding or idling the unselected unlock object s and

a locking zone displaying unit displaying a locking zone which corresponds to the function to be unlocked and encloses the selected unlock object.

For example the function to be unlocked is touch control for an application program which is in a locked state. For unlocking the application program it is detected whether the unlock object or any of the unlock objects is touched by a user. If one unlock object is touched so as to be selected a corresponding locking zone is displayed with the selected unlock object as a geometric center thereof. Of course a shape a size and a range of the locking zone may also be designed in other ways depending on practical requirements. Meanwhile the unselected unblock object s will be hidden or idled. The unlocking operation may be implemented by for example calling an application programming interface API to enter an operational interface corresponding to the specified function.

In an embodiment the device may further include a state holding unit keeping the function locked if no unlock object is selected the selected unlock object is not located outside the corresponding locking zone or the selected unlock object is not released.

According to the present invention a unlocking criterion is whether the selected unlock object is located at any of a plurality of unlocking positions outside the corresponding locking zone. There is provided a novel unlock solution which compared to the existing unlock solution is simpler and easier to be manipulated.

Embodiment 4 of the present invention will be described hereinafter with reference to the functional block diagram of . Please be noted that for focused discussion only elements associated with the present invention are illustrated.

The device as illustrated in is adapted to be used for unlocking touch control of a smart phone or any other touch control terminal having a touch sensitive display such as a mobile phone or a tablet computer. The device according to this embodiment of the present invention includes a correspondence realizing unit an information fetching unit a position correlating unit a discriminating a touch control unlocking unit and a holding unit .

The correspondence realizing unit realizes an unlock object and a locking zone which correspond to a function to be unlocked. The function to be unlocked for example can be normal displaying of the touch sensitive display or execution of an application program in the touch control terminal. Different functions may be unlocked with the same or different unlock object s corresponding to the same or different locking zone. The association among the unlock object s the locking zone s and the functions has been preset in the touch control terminal and shapes and sizes of the unlock object s and the locking zone s may be any suitable ones advantageous to a user s unlocking operation.

In a specific embodiment the device for unlocking touch control further includes a defining unit for predefining one or more unlock objects and one or more locking zones for each function to be selectively unlocked before the correspondence between the unlock object and the locking zone is realized.

The information fetching unit fetches information of the locking zone and information of the selected unlock object. The information of the selected unlock object may be a position or pixel coordinate of a geometric center or specified edge point of the selected unlock object and the information of the locking zone may be position coordinates of a margin of the locking zone.

The position correlating unit determines a position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone wherein the position relationship is one of a first relationship that the selected unlock object is located inside the margin of the locking zone a second relationship that the selected unlock object is located at the margin of the locking zone and a third relationship that the selected unlock object is located outside the margin of the locking zone. For example there may be one or more e.g. three unlock objects corresponding to a specified function e.g. normal displaying of the touch sensitive display. Once one of the three unlock objects are touched so as to be selected the other two will be hidden or idled. Subsequently the position correlating unit compares an absolute value of an abscissa and an absolute value of an ordinate of the selected unlock object with an absolute value of a maximum one of abscissae and an absolute value of a maximum one of ordinates of the margin of the locking zone respectively to determine the position relationship.

The discriminating determines whether the selected unlock object is located at any of a plurality of unlocking positions outside the corresponding locking zone i.e. if the position relationship between the selected unlock object and the locking zone meets the third relationship. More specifically the discriminating determines if either of the absolute value of the abscissa and the absolute value of the ordinate of the unlock object is greater than the comparative one of the locking zone. If positive it is determined that the unlock object is located in an unlocking zone outside the locking zone.

The touch control unlocking unit unlocks the touch control for the function if the selected unlock object is located outside the locking zone due to being dragged to a position outside the locking zone or by touching the display at a desired position outside the locking zone.

The holding unit keeps the function locked if no unlock object is selected the selected unlock object is not located outside the corresponding locking zone or the selected unlock object is not released.

In an example of the present invention the touch sensitive display may be implemented with a three tier architecture as schematically illustrated in . The three tiers include a wallpaper tier an information tier and an unlocking control tier . The wallpaper tier supports displaying of a wallpaper and may be changed in real time. The information tier supports displaying of time a date a message a phone preview etc. and may also be changed. The unlocking control tier displays unlocking control means including an unlock object and a locking zone and receiving associated operations. The locking zone is exemplified and is not limited to a circle. The touch control terminal further includes a lock screen manager not shown which executes initialization and destruction of a lock screen interface. The three tiers are abstracted into a layout and executed by the lock screen manager. The lock screen manager also supports replacement of a displayed style in each tier according to a layout and source data loaded from external storage means.

In an example in the unlocking control tier there are three displaying states of the unlock object s to be selectively shown including a standby state a selecting state and an unlocking state. First of all the functions to be unlocked are initialized with corresponding configuration data and recorded in a list. The information associated with each function to be unlocked includes center pixel data of each unlock object corresponding to the function to be unlocked radius data of each corresponding locking zone frame data of each unlock object in each of the three displaying states and frame data of each locking zone. In an initial state touch control for the function is locked and the unlock objects are all idled. It is defined to be in the standby state. At this moment all the related data are initial data. Upon detecting that an unlock object is touched so as to be selected a prompt animation will be displayed. This is in the selecting state. Meanwhile the unselected unlock object s will be hidden or idled. In the selecting state the selected unlock object is set to be movable. In response to the selection of unlock object the corresponding locking zone is displayed for the user s reference for moving the selected unlock object. After the selected unlock object is moved outside the locking zone and released at one of a plurality of positions outside the locking zone the unlocking state is entered. Otherwise it remains in the selecting state or returns to the standby state. In the unlocking state API is called to allow the function to be executed.

To sum it up according to the present invention it is detected if any of the at least one unlock object is selected. The selected unlock object is then tracked. When the selected unlock object is located at any of a plurality of unlocking positions outside the corresponding locking zone touch control for a function corresponding to the selected unlock object is unlocked.

It is to be noted that in the above described embodiments all the units and modules are exemplarily classified based on functions. It is not intended to limit the classification of the units and modules to this manner as long as the corresponding functions can be achieved. Furthermore the functional units are respectively named such that they can be clearly distinguished. The scope of the present invention is not limited thereto.

For those having ordinary skill in the art it is understood that all or a part of the steps in the various embodiments described above can be executed by a program instructing relevant hardware and the corresponding program may be stored in a computer readable storage object. The so called storage object can be for example a ROM RAM disk or optical disk etc.

What are described above are preferred embodiments according to the present invention only rather than being used for limiting the present invention. On the contrary it is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims which are to be accorded with the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar structures.

