---

title: Antisense antiviral compound and method for treating influenza viral infection
abstract: The present invention relates to antisense antiviral compounds and methods of their use and production in inhibition of growth of viruses of the Orthomyxoviridae family and in the treatment of a viral infection. The compounds are particularly useful in the treatment of influenza virus infection in a mammal. Exemplary antisense antiviral compounds are substantially uncharged, or partially positively charged, morpholino oligonucleotides having 1) a nuclease resistant backbone, 2) 12-40 nucleotide bases, and 3) a targeting sequence of at least 12 bases in length that hybridizes to a target region selected from the following: a) the 5′ or 3′ terminal 25 bases of the negative sense viral RNA segment of Influenzavirus A, Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C; b) the terminal 30 bases of the 5′ or 3′ terminus of the positive sense vcRNA; c) the 45 bases surrounding the AUG start codon of an influenza viral mRNA and; d) 50 bases surrounding the splice donor or acceptor sites of influenza mRNAs subject to alternative splicing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09394323&OS=09394323&RS=09394323
owner: SAREPTA THERAPEUTICS, INC.
number: 09394323
owner_city: Corvallis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140411
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 945 081 filed Nov. 12 2010 allowed which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 261 278 filed Nov. 13 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 292 056 filed Jan. 4 2010 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 377 382 filed Aug. 26 2010 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention was made with Government support under HDTRA1 09 C 0046 and HDTRA1 C 10 0079 awarded by Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The Sequence Listing associated with this application is provided in text format in lieu of a paper copy and is hereby incorporated by reference into the specification. The name of the text file containing the Sequence Listing is 120178 456C1 SEQUENCE LISTING.txt. The text file is 33 KB was created on Feb. 28 2014 and is being submitted electronically via EFS Web.

The invention relates to antisense oligonucleotides for use in treating an influenza virus infection and antiviral treatment methods employing the oligonucleotides.

Influenza viruses have been a major cause of human mortality and morbidity throughout recorded history. Influenza A virus infection causes millions of cases of severe illness and as many as 500 000 deaths each year worldwide. Epidemics vary widely in severity but occur at regular intervals and always cause significant mortality and morbidity most frequently in the elderly population. Although vaccines against matched influenza strains can prevent illness in 60 80 of healthy adults the rate of protection is much lower in high risk groups. Furthermore vaccination does not provide protection against unexpected strains such as the H5 and H7 avian influenza outbreaks in Hong Kong in 1997 and Europe and Southeast Asia in 2003 and 2004. Current anti influenza drugs are limited in their capacity to provide protection and therapeutic effect Cox and Subbarao 1999 Cox and Subbarao 2000 .

Influenza A is a segmented RNA virus of negative polarity. Genome segments are replicated by a complex of 4 proteins the 3 polymerase polypeptides PA PB1 and PB2 and NP Nucleoprotein . The 5 and 3 terminal sequence regions of all 8 genome segments are highly conserved within a genotype Strauss and Strauss 2002 .

Influenza A viruses can be subtyped according to the antigenic and genetic nature of their surface glycoproteins 15 hemagglutinin HA and 9 neuraminidase NA subtypes have been identified to date. Viruses bearing all known HA and NA subtypes have been isolated from avian hosts but only viruses of the H1N1 1918 H2N2 1957 58 and H3N2 1968 subtypes have been associated with widespread epidemics in humans Strauss and Strauss 2002 .

Since 1997 when H5N1 influenza virus was transmitted to humans and killed 6 of 18 infected persons there have been multiple transmissions of avian influenza viruses to mammals. Either the whole virus is transmitted directly or gene segments from the avian influenza virus are acquired by mammalian strains. Widespread infections of poultry with H5N1 viruses in Asia have caused increasing concern that this subtype may achieve human to human spread and establish interspecies transmission. The species which different types of influenza viruses are able to infect are determined by different forms of the virus glycoproteins HA NA . This provides a considerable species barrier between birds and humans which is not easily overcome. Pigs however provide a mixing pot able to be infected by both types of virus and thereby allowing the passage of avian viruses to humans. When an individual pig cell is co infected with both avian and human influenza viruses recombinant forms can emerge that carry an avian HA genotype but readily infect humans. Avian HA can infect pigs but not humans. In pigs during genome segment packaging it is possible to create a virus with several Avian segments and Human HA and or NA segments Cox and Subbarao 2000 .

Influenza viruses infect humans and animals e.g. pigs birds horses and may cause acute respiratory disease. There have been numerous attempts to produce vaccines effective against influenza virus. None however have been completely successful particularly on a long term basis. This may be due at least in part to the segmented characteristic of the influenza virus genome which makes it possible through re assortment of the segments for numerous forms to exist. For example it has been suggested that there could be an interchange of RNA segments between animal and human influenza viruses which would result in the introduction of new antigenic subtypes into both populations. Thus a long term vaccination approach has failed due to the emergence of new subtypes antigenic shift . In addition the surface proteins of the virus hemagglutinin and neuraminidase constantly undergo minor antigenic changes antigenic drift . This high degree of variation explains why specific immunity developed against a particular influenza virus does not establish protection against new variants. Hence alternative antiviral strategies are needed. Although influenza B and C viruses cause less clinical disease than the A types new antiviral drugs should also be helpful in curbing infections caused by these agents.

Influenza viruses that occur naturally among birds are called avian influenza bird flu . The birds carry the viruses in their intestines but do not generally get sick from the infection. However migratory birds can carry the bird flu to infect domestic chickens ducks and turkeys causing illness and even death. Avian flu does not easily infect humans but when human exposure is more frequent such as contact with domestic birds human infections occur. A dangerous bird flu H5N1 was first identified in terms in South Africa in 1961 and was identified as a potentially deadly form of flu. Outbreaks of H5N1 occurred in eight Asian countries in late 2003 and 2004. At that time more than 100 million birds in these countries either died or were killed in order to control the outbreak. Beginning in June of 2004 new deadly outbreaks of H5N1 were reported in Asia which are currently ongoing. Human infections of H5N1 have been observed in Thailand Vietnam and Cambodia with a death rate of about 50 percent. These infections have mostly occurred from human contact with infected poultry but a few cases of human to human spread of H5N1 have occurred.

A triple reassortant influenza A H1 virus has been circulating since 1998 with segments from pigs HA NP NA M and NS humans PB1 and birds PB2 and PA . The newly described and novel swine origin influenza A 2009H1N1 virus S OIV which is responsible for an ongoing international disease outbreak is a triple reassortant virus that includes genetic elements of this preexisting virus that have reassorted with the neuraminidase NA and matrix M segments of a Eurasian swine virus S OIV Investigation Team 2009 . The previous influenza A H1 triple reassortant virus was occasionally transmitted to humans but not spread efficiently from human to human but the new S OIV is very efficient in human to human transmission. Recently 3440 laboratory confirmed cases of S OIV infection have been reported from 29 countries. The outbreak began in Mexico where a total of 1364 cases have been documented resulting in 45 deaths case fatality rate of 3.3 . Outside of Mexico there have been only three reported deaths case fatality rate of 0.1 . The reason for this geographic imbalance in death rate is not clear at this time.

While the S OIV is currently sensitive to the neuraminidase inhibitors oseltamivir and zanamivir seasonal influenza has previously been documented to evolve mutations that confer neuraminidase inhibitor resistance. Will S OIV replace the human H1 as the seasonal influenza virus or will S OIV reassort with yet another strain of influenza to create another new variant Will it evolve to become more lethal These uncertainties are compounded by the time interval from the identification of a new virus to the manufacture and distribution of a new vaccine. Further a sufficiently novel viral hemagglutinin antigen may necessitate the use of large doses of immunogen and a prime boost schedule posing practical difficulties for mass vaccination campaigns that must promptly elicit protective immunity. In view of these considerations there exists an urgent need to create novel forms of prophylaxis and therapy for S OIV in particular ideally with broad activity against various influenza viral strains subtypes and types.

An urgent need exists for new forms of treatment for influenza A based on a the known propensity of this virus to undergo both continuous low level antigenic drift and less frequent but unpredictable major antigenic shift leading to pandemic disease b the clear failure of vaccination even when strains are reasonably matched to prevent influenza related illness in a significant proportion of vaccine recipients and c the increased frequency of resistance to approved forms of therapy for influenza e.g. the adamantane derivatives and more recently the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir .

In view of the severity of the diseases caused by influenza viruses there is an immediate need for new therapies to treat influenza infection. Given the lack of effective prevention or therapies it is therefore an object of the present invention to provide therapeutic compounds and methods for treating a host infected with an influenza virus.

Embodiments of the present invention include in one aspect an anti viral compound effective in inhibiting replication within a host cell of an RNA virus having a single stranded negative sense genome and selected from the Orthomyxoviridae family including the Influenzavirus A Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C genera. The compound may target viral RNA sequences within a region selected from the following 1 the 5 or 3 terminal 25 bases of the negative sense viral RNA segments 2 the terminal 25 bases of the 5 or 3 terminus of the positive sense cRNA 3 45 bases surrounding the AUG start codons of influenza viral mRNAs and 4 50 bases surrounding the splice donor or acceptor sites of influenza mRNAs subject to alternative splicing.

In certain embodiments the antiviral compound may include an oligonucleotide characterized by a a nuclease resistant backbone b 12 40 nucleotide bases and c a targeting sequence of at least 10 bases in length that hybridizes to a target region selected from the following i the 5 or 3 terminal 25 bases of a negative sense viral RNA segment of Influenzavirus A Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C such as a segment that comprises M1 or M2 ii the terminal 25 bases of the 5 or 3 terminus of a positive sense cRNA of Influenzavirus A Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C iii the 45 bases surrounding the AUG start codon of an influenza viral mRNA such as an M1 or M2 mRNA and iv 50 bases surrounding the splice donor or acceptor sites of Influenzavirus A Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C mRNAs subject to alternative splicing such as an M1 or M2 mRNA.

An oligonucleotide may also be characterized by a the capability of being actively taken up by mammalian host cells and or b the ability to form a heteroduplex structure with the viral target region wherein said heteroduplex structure is i composed of the positive or negative sense strand of the virus and the oligonucleotide compound and ii characterized by a Tm of dissociation of at least 45 C.

Embodiments of the present invention include in another aspect an antiviral compound that inhibits in a mammalian host cell replication of an infecting influenza virus having a single stranded segmented negative sense genome and selected from the Orthomyxoviridae family. The compound may be administered to the infected host cells as an oligonucleotide characterized by the elements described above. The compound may be administered to a mammalian subject infected with the influenza virus or at risk of infection with the influenza virus.

The compound may be composed of morpholino subunits linked by uncharged phosphorus containing intersubunit linkages joining a morpholino nitrogen of one subunit to a 5 exocyclic carbon of an adjacent subunit. In one embodiment the intersubunit linkages are phosphorodiamidate linkages such as those having the structure 

The compound may be composed of morpholino subunits linked with the uncharged linkages described above interspersed with linkages that are positively charged. The total number of positively charged linkages is between 2 and no more than half of the total number of linkages. The positively charged linkages have the structure above where X is 1 piperazine.

The compound may include a covalent conjugate of an oligonucleotide analog moiety capable of forming such a heteroduplex structure with the positive or negative sense RNA strand of the virus and an arginine rich polypeptide effective to enhance the uptake of the compound into host cells. Exemplary polypeptides comprise one of the sequences identified as SEQ ID NOs 115 128.

In a related aspect embodiments of the present invention include a heteroduplex complex formed between 

In certain embodiments an exemplary oligonucleotide may be composed of morpholino subunits linked by uncharged phosphorus containing intersubunit linkages joining a morpholino nitrogen of one subunit to a 5 exocyclic carbon of an adjacent subunit. The compound may have phosphorodiamidate linkages such as in the structure

The compound may be the oligonucleotide alone or a conjugate of the oligonucleotide and an arginine rich polypeptide capable of enhancing the uptake of the compound into host cells. Exemplary polypeptides have one of the sequences identified as SEQ ID NOs 115 128.

In still another aspect embodiments of the present invention include an antisense oligonucleotide and related methods inhibiting replication in mammalian host cells of an influenza virus having a single stranded segmented negative sense RNA genome and selected from the Orthomyxoviridae family. The compound may be characterized by the viral RNA elements described herein. In certain embodiments the cell is in a subject typically a subject having an influenza virus infection.

In some embodiments the subject has a secondary bacterial infection and the method further comprises administering a bacterial antibiotic separately or concurrently with the antiviral antisense oligonucleotide. In specific embodiments the secondary bacterial infection is a Streptococcal pneumonia infection e.g. . In certain embodiments the antibiotic is a beta lactam. In specific embodiments the antibiotic is selected from penicillin amoxicillin cephalosporins chloramphenicol and clindamycin.

Also included are methods of reducing replication of an influenza virus comprising administering an antisense oligonucleotide targeted against an RNA molecule encoding CD200 or the CD200 receptor separately or concurrently with one or more antiviral antisense oligonucleotides described herein.

A pharmaceutical composition comprising an antiviral antisense oligonucleotide described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition further comprises a bacterial antibiotic such as penicillin amoxicillin cephalosporins chloramphenicol or clindamycin. In preferred embodiments the bacterial antibiotic is bacteriostatic. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition further comprises an antisense oligonucleotide targeted against an RNA molecule encoding CD200 or the CD200 receptor.

For treatment of Influenza virus such as Influenza A virus the targeting sequence may hybridize to a region associated with one of the group of sequences identified as SEQ ID NOs 1 11. Preferred targeting sequences are those complementary to either the minus strand target of SEQ ID NO 4 or the positive strand target of SEQ ID NO 2. Exemplary antisense phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers PMOs that target these two regions are listed as SEQ ID NOs 23 and 12 respectively.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention preferred methods and materials are described. For the purposes of the present invention the following terms are defined below.

The articles a and an are used herein to refer to one or to more than one i.e. to at least one of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example an element means one element or more than one element.

By about is meant a quantity level value number frequency percentage dimension size amount weight or length that varies by as much as 30 25 20 25 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 to a reference quantity level value number frequency percentage dimension size amount weight or length.

By coding sequence is meant any nucleic acid sequence that contributes to the code for the polypeptide product of a gene. By contrast the term non coding sequence refers to any nucleic acid sequence that does not contribute to the code for the polypeptide product of a gene.

Throughout this specification unless the context requires otherwise the words comprise comprises and comprising will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or element or group of steps or elements.

By consisting of is meant including and limited to whatever follows the phrase consisting of. Thus the phrase consisting of indicates that the listed elements are required or mandatory and that no other elements may be present. By consisting essentially of is meant including any elements listed after the phrase and limited to other elements that do not interfere with or contribute to the activity or action specified in the disclosure for the listed elements. Thus the phrase consisting essentially of indicates that the listed elements are required or mandatory but that other elements are optional and may or may not be present depending upon whether or not they materially affect the activity or action of the listed elements.

The terms complementary and complementarity refer to polynucleotides i.e. a sequence of nucleotides related by the base pairing rules. For example the sequence A G T is complementary to the sequence T C A. Complementarity may be partial in which only some of the nucleic acids bases are matched according to the base pairing rules. Or there may be complete or total complementarity between the nucleic acids. The degree of complementarity between nucleic acid strands has significant effects on the efficiency and strength of hybridization between nucleic acid strands. While perfect complementarity is often desired some embodiments can include one or more but preferably 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 mismatches with respect to the target RNA. Variations at any location within the oligomer are included. In certain embodiments variations in sequence near the termini of an oligomer are generally preferable to variations in the interior and if present are typically within about 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 nucleotides of the 5 and or 3 terminus.

The terms cell penetrating peptide or CPP are used interchangeably and refer to cationic cell penetrating peptides also called transport peptides carrier peptides or peptide transduction domains. The peptides as shown herein have the capability of inducing cell penetration within 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 of cells of a given cell culture population including all integers in between and allow macromolecular translocation within multiple tissues in vivo upon systemic administration.

The terms antisense oligomer or antisense compound or antisense oligonucleotide or oligonucleotide are used interchangeably and refer to a sequence of cyclic subunits each bearing a base pairing moiety linked by intersubunit linkages that allow the base pairing moieties to hybridize to a target sequence in a nucleic acid typically an RNA by Watson Crick base pairing to form a nucleic acid oligomer heteroduplex within the target sequence. The cyclic subunits may be based on ribose or another pentose sugar or in certain embodiments a morpholino group see description of morpholino oligomers below . Also contemplated are peptide nucleic acids PNAs locked nucleic acids LNAs 2 O Methyl oligonucleotides and RNA interference agents siRNA agents and other antisense agents known in the art.

Such an antisense oligomer can be designed to block or inhibit translation of mRNA or to inhibit natural pre mRNA splice processing or induce degradation of targeted mRNAs and may be said to be directed to or targeted against a target sequence with which it hybridizes. In certain embodiments the target sequence includes a region including an AUG start codon of an mRNA a 3 or 5 splice site of a pre processed mRNA a branch point. The target sequence may be within an exon or within an intron. The target sequence for a splice site may include an mRNA sequence having its 5 end 1 to about 25 base pairs downstream of a normal splice acceptor junction in a preprocessed mRNA. A preferred splice site target sequence is any region of a preprocessed mRNA that includes a splice site or is contained entirely within an exon coding sequence or spans a splice acceptor or donor site. An oligomer is more generally said to be targeted against a biologically relevant target such as a protein virus or bacteria when it is targeted against the nucleic acid of the target in the manner described above.

Included are antisense oligonucleotides that comprise consist essentially of or consist of one or more of SEQ ID NOS 12 114. Also included are variants of these antisense oligomers including variant oligomers having 80 85 90 95 97 98 or 99 including all integers in between sequence identity or sequence homology to any one of SEQ ID NOS 12 114 and or variants that differ from these sequences by about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 nucleotides preferably those variants that inhibit influenza replication in a cell. Also included are oligonucleotides of any one or more of SEQ ID NOS 12 114 which comprise a suitable number of charged linkages as described herein e.g. up to about 1 per every 2 5 uncharged linkages such as about 4 5 per every 10 uncharged linkages and or which comprise an Arg rich peptide attached thereto as also described herein.

The terms morpholino oligomer or PMO phosphoramidate or phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer refer to an oligonucleotide analog composed of morpholino subunit structures where i the structures are linked together by phosphorus containing linkages one to three atoms long preferably two atoms long and preferably uncharged or cationic joining the morpholino nitrogen of one subunit to a 5 exocyclic carbon of an adjacent subunit and ii each morpholino ring bears a purine or pyrimidine or an equivalent base pairing moiety effective to bind by base specific hydrogen bonding to a base in a polynucleotide. See for example the structure in which shows a preferred phosphorodiamidate linkage type. Variations can be made to this linkage as long as they do not interfere with binding or activity. For example the oxygen attached to phosphorus may be substituted with sulfur thiophosphorodiamidate . The 5 oxygen may be substituted with amino or lower alkyl substituted amino. The pendant nitrogen attached to phosphorus may be unsubstituted monosubstituted or disubstituted with optionally substituted lower alkyl. See also the discussion of cationic linkages below. The purine or pyrimidine base pairing moiety is typically adenine cytosine guanine uracil thymine or inosine. The synthesis structures and binding characteristics of morpholino oligomers are detailed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 698 685 5 217 866 5 142 047 5 034 506 5 166 315 5 521 063 and 5 506 337 and PCT Appn. Nos. PCT US07 11435 cationic linkages and PCT Application No. US2008 012804 improved synthesis all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The term oligonucleotide analog refers to an oligonucleotide having i a modified backbone structure e.g. a backbone other than the standard phosphodiester linkage found in natural oligo and polynucleotides and ii optionally modified sugar moieties e.g. morpholino moieties rather than ribose or deoxyribose moieties. Oligonucleotide analogs support bases capable of hydrogen bonding by Watson Crick base pairing to standard polynucleotide bases where the analog backbone presents the bases in a manner to permit such hydrogen bonding in a sequence specific fashion between the oligonucleotide analog molecule and bases in a standard polynucleotide e.g. single stranded RNA or single stranded DNA . Preferred analogs are those having a substantially uncharged phosphorus containing backbone.

A substantially uncharged phosphorus containing backbone in an oligonucleotide analog is one in which a majority of the subunit linkages e.g. between 50 100 typically at least 60 to 100 or 75 or 80 of its linkages are uncharged or substantially uncharged and contain a single phosphorous atom. Antisense oligonucleotides and oligonucleotide analogs may contain between about 8 and 40 subunits typically about 8 25 subunits and preferably about 12 to 25 subunits. In certain embodiments oligonucleotides may have exact sequence complementarity to the target sequence or near complementarity as defined below.

A subunit of an oligonucleotide refers to one nucleotide or nucleotide analog unit. The term may refer to the nucleotide unit with or without the attached intersubunit linkage although when referring to a charged subunit the charge typically resides within the intersubunit linkage e.g. a phosphate or phosphorothioate linkage or a cationic linkage as shown in .

The purine or pyrimidine base pairing moiety is typically adenine cytosine guanine uracil thymine or inosine. Also included are bases such as pyridin 4 one pyridin 2 one phenyl pseudouracil 2 4 6 trime115thoxy benzene 3 methyl uracil dihydrouridine naphthyl aminophenyl 5 alkylcytidines e.g. 5 methylcytidine 5 alkyluridines e.g. ribothymidine 5 halouridine e.g. 5 bromouridine or 6 azapyrimidines or 6 alkylpyrimidines e.g. 6 methyluridine propyne quesosine 2 thiouridine 4 thiouridine wybutosine wybutoxosine 4 acetyltidine 5 carboxyhydroxymethyl uridine 5 carboxymethylaminomethyl 2 thiouridine 5 carboxymethylaminomethyluridine D galactosylqueosine 1 methyladenosine 1 methylinosine 2 2 dimethylguanosine 3 methylcytidine 2 methyladenosine 2 methylguanosine N6 methyladenosine 7 methylguanosine 5 methoxyaminomethyl 2 thiouridine 5 methylaminomethyluridine 5 methylcarbonylmethyluridine 5 methyloxyuridine 5 methyl 2 thiouridine 2 methylthio N6 isopentenyladenosine D mannosylqueosine uridine 5 oxyacetic acid 2 thiocytidine threonine derivatives and others Burgin et al. 1996 Biochemistry 35 14090 Uhlman Peyman supra . By modified bases in this aspect is meant nucleotide bases other than adenine A guanine G cytosine C thymine T and uracil U as illustrated above such bases can be used at any position in the antisense molecule. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that depending on the uses of the oligomers Ts and Us are interchangeable. For instance with other antisense chemistries such as 2 O methyl antisense oligonucleotides that are more RNA like the T bases may be shown as U see e.g. Sequence Listing .

An amino acid subunit or amino acid residue can refer to an amino acid residue CO CHR NH or a or other amino acid residue e.g. CO CH CHR NH where R is a side chain which may include hydrogen and n is 1 to 7 preferably 1 to 4.

The term naturally occurring amino acid refers to an amino acid present in proteins found in nature such as the 20 L amino acids utilized during protein biosynthesis as well as others such as 4 hydroxyproline hydroxylysine desmosine isodesmosine homocysteine citrulline and ornithine. The term non natural amino acids refers to those amino acids not present in proteins found in nature examples include beta alanine Ala 6 aminohexanoic acid Ahx and 6 aminopentanoic acid. Additional examples of non natural amino acids include without limitation D amino acids norleucine norvaline p fluorophenylalanine ethionine and the like which are known to a person skilled in the art.

By isolated is meant material that is substantially or essentially free from components that normally accompany it in its native state. For example an isolated polynucleotide or isolated oligonucleotide as used herein may refer to a polynucleotide that has been purified or removed from the sequences that flank it in a naturally occurring state e.g. a DNA fragment that has been removed from the sequences that are normally adjacent to the fragment.

An effective amount or therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of therapeutic compound such as an antisense oligomer or RNA interference agent e.g. siRNA administered to a mammalian subject either as a single dose or as part of a series of doses which is effective to produce a desired therapeutic effect. For an antisense oligomer this effect is typically brought about by inhibiting translation or natural splice processing of a selected target sequence. An effective amount targeted against an infecting influenza virus also relates to an amount effective to reduce the rate of replication of the infecting virus and or viral load and or symptoms associated with the viral infection.

By enhance or enhancing or increase or increasing or stimulate or stimulating refers generally to the ability of one or antisense or RNAi compounds or compositions to produce or cause a greater physiological response i.e. downstream effects in a cell or a subject as compared to the response caused by either no antisense compound or a control compound. An increased or enhanced amount is typically a statistically significant amount and may include an increase that is 1.1 1.2 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 30 40 50 or more times e.g. 500 1000 times including all integers and decimal points in between and above 1 e.g. 1.5 1.6 1.7. 1.8 etc. the amount produced by no antisense compound the absence of an agent or a control compound.

The term reduce or inhibit may relate generally to the ability of one or more antisense or RNAi compounds of the invention to decrease a relevant physiological or cellular response such as a symptom of a disease or condition described herein as measured according to routine techniques in the diagnostic art. Relevant physiological or cellular responses in vivo or in vitro will be apparent to persons skilled in the art and may include reductions in the symptoms or pathology of influenza infection or reductions in viral replication or viral load. A decrease in a response may be statistically significant as compared to the response produced by no antisense compound or a control composition and may include a 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 decrease including all integers in between.

The term target sequence refers to a portion of the target RNA against which the oligonucleotide or antisense agent is directed that is the sequence to which the oligonucleotide will hybridize by Watson Crick base pairing of a complementary sequence. In certain embodiments the target sequence may be a contiguous region of the viral negative strand RNA or viral mRNA or may be composed of regions of the 5 and 3 terminal sequences of the viral genomic or viral complementary RNA.

The term targeting sequence or antisense targeting sequence refers to the sequence in an oligonucleotide or other antisense agent that is complementary meaning in addition substantially complementary to the target sequence in the RNA genome. The entire sequence or only a portion of the antisense compound may be complementary to the target sequence. For example in an oligonucleotide having 20 30 bases about 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 or 29 may be targeting sequences that are complementary to the target region. Typically the targeting sequence is formed of contiguous bases but may alternatively be formed of non contiguous sequences that when placed together e.g. from opposite ends of the oligonucleotide constitute sequence that spans the target sequence.

The target and targeting sequences may be selected such that binding of the antisense compound is to a region within 1 the 5 or 3 terminal 25 bases of the negative sense viral RNA 2 the terminal 30 bases of the 5 or 3 terminus of the positive sense mRNA 3 45 bases surrounding the AUG start codons of viral mRNA and or 4 50 bases surrounding the splice donor or acceptor sites of viral mRNAs subject to alternative splicing. In certain embodiments the target region may include 1 the 5 or 3 terminal 25 bases of the M1 or M2 region of the negative sense viral RNA 2 the terminal 30 bases of the 5 or 3 terminus of the positive sense M1 or M2 mRNA 3 45 bases surrounding the AUG start codons of the M1 or M2 mRNA and or 4 50 bases surrounding the splice donor or acceptor sites of M1 or M2 viral mRNAs. In certain embodiments the target region may comprise both the AUG codon and the bases surrounding or contributing to the splice donor site of the viral RNA e.g. M1 or M2 mRNA such as a polypyrimidine tract or lariat forming sequence. In certain embodiments using a single antisense oligomer or RNAi agent to target both the AUG start codon and the proximal splice donor sequences e.g. polypyrimidine tract of the M1 M2 RNA may provide synergistic effects with regard to reducing target protein expression reducing viral replication or both.

Target and targeting sequences are described as complementary to one another when hybridization occurs in an antiparallel configuration. A targeting sequence may have near or substantial complementarity to the target sequence and still function for the purpose of the present invention that is it may still be functionally complementary. In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide may have at most one mismatch with the target sequence out of 10 nucleotides and preferably at most one mismatch out of 20. Alternatively an oligonucleotide may have at least 90 sequence homology and preferably at least 95 sequence homology with the exemplary antisense targeting sequences described herein.

An oligonucleotide specifically hybridizes to a target polynucleotide if the oligomer hybridizes to the target under physiological conditions with a Tm substantially greater than 45 C. preferably at least 50 C. and typically 60 C. 80 C. or higher. Such hybridization preferably corresponds to stringent hybridization conditions. At a given ionic strength and pH the Tm is the temperature at which 50 of a target sequence hybridizes to a complementary polynucleotide. Again such hybridization may occur with near or substantial complementarity of the antisense oligomer to the target sequence as well as with exact complementarity.

 Homology refers to the percentage number of amino acids that are identical or constitute conservative substitutions. Homology may be determined using sequence comparison programs such as GAP Deveraux et al. 198412 387 395 . In this way sequences of a similar or substantially different length to those cited herein could be compared by insertion of gaps into the alignment such gaps being determined for example by the comparison algorithm used by GAP.

The recitations sequence identity or for example comprising a sequence 50 identical to as used herein refer to the extent that sequences are identical on a nucleotide by nucleotide basis or an amino acid by amino acid basis over a window of comparison. Thus a percentage of sequence identity may be calculated by comparing two optimally aligned sequences over the window of comparison determining the number of positions at which the identical nucleic acid base e.g. A T C G I or the identical amino acid residue e.g. Ala Pro Ser Thr Gly Val Leu Ile Phe Tyr Trp Lys Arg His Asp Glu Asn Gln Cys and Met occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the window of comparison i.e. the window size and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity.

Terms used to describe sequence relationships between two or more polynucleotides or polypeptides include reference sequence comparison window sequence identity percentage of sequence identity and substantial identity . A reference sequence is at least 8 or 10 but frequently 15 to 18 and often at least 25 monomer units inclusive of nucleotides and amino acid residues in length. Because two polynucleotides may each comprise 1 a sequence i.e. only a portion of the complete polynucleotide sequence that is similar between the two polynucleotides and 2 a sequence that is divergent between the two polynucleotides sequence comparisons between two or more polynucleotides are typically performed by comparing sequences of the two polynucleotides over a comparison window to identify and compare local regions of sequence similarity. A comparison window refers to a conceptual segment of at least 6 contiguous positions usually about 50 to about 100 more usually about 100 to about 150 in which a sequence is compared to a reference sequence of the same number of contiguous positions after the two sequences are optimally aligned. The comparison window may comprise additions or deletions i.e. gaps of about 20 or less as compared to the reference sequence which does not comprise additions or deletions for optimal alignment of the two sequences. Optimal alignment of sequences for aligning a comparison window may be conducted by computerized implementations of algorithms GAP BESTFIT FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Release 7.0 Genetics Computer Group 575 Science Drive Madison Wis. USA or by inspection and the best alignment i.e. resulting in the highest percentage homology over the comparison window generated by any of the various methods selected. Reference also may be made to the BLAST family of programs as for example disclosed by Altschul et al. 199725 3389. A detailed discussion of sequence analysis can be found in Unit 19.3 of Ausubel et al. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons Inc 1994 1998 Chapter 15.

A nuclease resistant oligomeric molecule oligomer refers to one whose backbone is substantially resistant to nuclease cleavage in non hybridized or hybridized form by common extracellular and intracellular nucleases in the body that is the oligomer shows little or no nuclease cleavage under normal nuclease conditions in the body to which the oligomer is exposed.

A heteroduplex refers to a duplex between an antisense oligonucleotide and the complementary portion of a target RNA. A nuclease resistant heteroduplex refers to a heteroduplex formed by the binding of an antisense oligomer to its complementary target such that the heteroduplex is substantially resistant to in vivo degradation by intracellular and extracellular nucleases such as RNaseH which are capable of cutting double stranded RNA RNA or RNA DNA complexes.

A base specific intracellular binding event involving a target RNA refers to the specific binding of an antisense oligonucleotide to a target RNA sequence inside a cell. The base specificity of such binding is sequence dependent. For example a single stranded polynucleotide can specifically bind to a single stranded polynucleotide that is complementary in sequence.

As used herein the term body fluid encompasses a variety of sample types obtained from a subject including urine saliva plasma blood spinal fluid or other sample of biological origin such as skin cells or dermal debris and may refer to cells or cell fragments suspended therein or the liquid medium and its solutes.

The term relative amount is used where a comparison is made between a test measurement and a control measurement. The relative amount of a reagent forming a complex in a reaction is the amount reacting with a test specimen compared with the amount reacting with a control specimen. The control specimen may be run separately in the same assay or it may be part of the same sample for example normal tissue surrounding a malignant area in a tissue section .

 Treatment of an individual or a cell is any type of intervention provided as a means to alter the natural course of a disease or pathology in the individual or cell. Treatment includes but is not limited to administration of e.g. a pharmaceutical composition and may be performed either prophylactically or subsequent to the initiation of a pathologic event or contact with an etiologic agent. Treatment includes any desirable effect on the symptoms or pathology of a disease or condition associated with influenza virus infection. The related term improved therapeutic outcome relative to a patient diagnosed as infected with a particular virus may refer to a slowing or diminution in the growth of virus or viral load or detectable symptoms associated with infection by that particular virus.

Also included are prophylactic treatments which can be directed to reducing the rate of progression of the disease or condition being treated delaying the onset of that disease or condition or reducing the severity of its onset. Treatment or prophylaxis does not necessarily indicate complete eradication cure or prevention of the disease or condition or associated symptoms thereof.

An agent is actively taken up by mammalian cells when the agent can enter the cell by a mechanism other than passive diffusion across the cell membrane. The agent may be transported for example by active transport referring to transport of agents across a mammalian cell membrane by e.g. an ATP dependent transport mechanism or by facilitated transport referring to transport of antisense agents across the cell membrane by a transport mechanism that requires binding of the agent to a transport protein which then facilitates passage of the bound agent across the membrane. For both active and facilitated transport oligonucleotide analogs preferably have a substantially uncharged backbone as defined below.

Alternatively the antisense compound may be formulated in a complexed form such as an agent having an anionic backbone complexed with cationic lipids or liposomes which can be taken into cells by an endocytic mechanism. The antisense oligonucleotide may also be conjugated e.g. at its 5 or 3 end to an arginine rich peptide such as a portion of the HIV TAT protein polyarginine or to combinations of arginine and other amino acids including the non natural amino acids 6 aminohexanoic acid Ahx and beta alanine Ala . Exemplary arginine rich delivery peptides are listed as SEQ ID NOs 115 128. These exemplary arginine rich delivery peptides facilitate transport into the target host cell as described Moulton Nelson et al. 2004 .

Hence included are methods of treating an influenza virus infection by administering one or more antisense oligomers of the present invention e.g. SEQ ID NOS 12 114 and variants thereof optionally as part of a pharmaceutical formulation or dosage form to a subject in need thereof. A subject as used herein may include any animal that exhibits a symptom or is at risk for exhibiting a symptom which can be treated with an antisense compound of the invention such as a subject that has or is at risk for having an influenza virus infection. Suitable subjects patients include laboratory animals such as mouse rat rabbit or guinea pig farm animals and domestic animals or pets such as a cat or dog . Non human primates and preferably human patients are included.

Also contemplated are alternate methods of RNA interference RNAi such as those involving double stranded RNA molecules or dsRNA. The term double stranded means two separate nucleic acid strands comprising a region in which at least a portion of the strands are sufficiently complementary to hydrogen bond and form a duplex structure. The term duplex or duplex structure refers to the region of a double stranded molecule wherein the two separate strands are substantially complementary and thus hybridize to each other.

 dsRNA refers to a ribonucleic acid molecule having a duplex structure comprising two complementary and anti parallel nucleic acid strands i.e. the sense and antisense strands . Not all nucleotides of a dsRNA must exhibit Watson Crick base pairs the two RNA strands may be substantially complementary. The RNA strands may have the same or a different number of nucleotides. The term dsRNA also includes siRNA or short interfering RNA.

It will be understood that the term ribonucleotide or nucleotide can in the case of a modified RNA or nucleotide surrogate also refer to a modified nucleotide or surrogate replacement moiety at one or more positions. Thus the dsRNA is or includes a region which is at least partially complementary to the target RNA. In certain embodiments the dsRNA is fully complementary to the target RNA. It is not necessary that there be perfect complementarity between the dsRNA and the target but the correspondence must be sufficient to enable the dsRNA or a cleavage product thereof to direct sequence specific silencing such as by RNAi cleavage of the target RNA. Complementarity or degree of homology with the target strand is most critical in the antisense strand. While perfect complementarity particularly in the antisense strand is often desired some embodiments can include one or more but preferably 6 5 4 3 2 or fewer mismatches with respect to the target RNA. The mismatches are most tolerated in the terminal regions and if present are preferably in a terminal region or regions e.g. within 6 5 4 or 3 nucleotides of the 5 and or 3 terminus. The sense strand need only be substantially complementary with the antisense strand to maintain the overall double strand character of the molecule.

As used herein modified dsRNA refers to a dsRNA molecule that comprises at least one alteration that renders it more resistant to nucleases e.g. protein kinase than an identical dsRNA molecule that recognizes the same target RNA. Modified dsRNAs may include a single stranded nucleotide overhang and or at least one substituted nucleotide.

As used herein a nucleotide overhang refers to the unpaired nucleotide or nucleotides that protrude from the duplex structure when a 3 end of one RNA strand extends beyond the 5 end of the other complementary strand or vice versa. Blunt or blunt end means that there are no unpaired nucleotides at that end of the dsRNA i.e. no nucleotide overhang. A blunt ended dsRNA is a dsRNA that is double stranded over its entire length i.e. no nucleotide overhang at either end of the molecule.

The term terminal base pair as used herein refers to the last nucleotide base pair on one end of the duplex region of a double stranded molecule. For example if a dsRNA or other molecule is blunt ended i.e. has no nucleotide overhangs the last nucleotide base pairs at both ends of the molecule are terminal base pairs. Where a dsRNA or other molecule has a nucleotide overhang at one or both ends of the duplex structure the last nucleotide base pair s immediately adjacent the nucleotide overhang s is the terminal base pair at that end s of the molecule.

Also included are vector delivery systems that are capable of expressing the oligomeric influenza virus targeting sequences of the present invention such as vectors that express a polynucleotide sequence comprising any one or more of SEQ ID NOS 12 114 or variants thereof as described herein or that express a polynucleotide sequence that is complementary to any or more of the target sequences of SEQ ID NOS 1 11. Included are vectors that express siRNA or other duplex forming RNA interference molecules.

By vector or nucleic acid construct is meant a polynucleotide molecule preferably a DNA molecule derived for example from a plasmid bacteriophage yeast or virus into which a polynucleotide can be inserted or cloned. A vector preferably contains one or more unique restriction sites and can be capable of autonomous replication in a defined host cell including a target cell or tissue or a progenitor cell or tissue thereof or be integrable with the genome of the defined host such that the cloned sequence is reproducible. Accordingly the vector can be an autonomously replicating vector i.e. a vector that exists as an extra chromosomal entity the replication of which is independent of chromosomal replication e.g. a linear or closed circular plasmid an extra chromosomal element a mini chromosome or an artificial chromosome. The vector can contain any means for assuring self replication. Alternatively the vector can be one which when introduced into the host cell is integrated into the genome and replicated together with the chromosome s into which it has been integrated.

A vector or nucleic acid construct system can comprise a single vector or plasmid two or more vectors or plasmids which together contain the total DNA to be introduced into the genome of the host cell or a transposon. The choice of the vector will typically depend on the compatibility of the vector with the host cell into which the vector is to be introduced. In the present case the vector or nucleic acid construct is preferably one which is operably functional in a mammalian cell such as a muscle cell. The vector can also include a selection marker such as an antibiotic or drug resistance gene or a reporter gene i.e. green fluorescent protein luciferase that can be used for selection or identification of suitable transformants or transfectants. Exemplary delivery systems may include viral vector systems i.e. viral mediated transduction including but not limited to retroviral e.g. lentiviral vectors adenoviral vectors adeno associated viral vectors and herpes viral vectors among others known in the art.

The term operably linked as used herein means placing an oligomer encoding sequence under the regulatory control of a promoter which then controls the transcription of the oligomer.

A wild type gene or gene product is that which is most frequently observed in a population and is thus arbitrarily designed the normal or wild type form of the gene.

 Alkyl refers to a fully saturated monovalent radical containing carbon and hydrogen which may be branched linear or cyclic cycloalkyl . Examples of alkyl groups are methyl ethyl n butyl t butyl n heptyl isopropyl cyclopropyl cyclopentyl ethylcyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. Generally preferred are alkyl groups having one to six carbon atoms referred to as lower alkyl and exemplified by methyl ethyl n butyl i butyl t butyl isoamyl n pentyl and isopentyl. In one embodiment lower alkyl refers to Cto Calkyl.

 Alkenyl refers to an unsaturated monovalent radical containing carbon and hydrogen which may be branched linear or cyclic. The alkenyl group may be monounsaturated or polyunsaturated. Generally preferred are alkenyl groups having one to six carbon atoms referred to as lower alkenyl. 

 Alkynyl refers to an unsaturated straight or branched chain hydrocarbon radical containing from 2 to 18 carbons comprising at least one carbon to carbon triple bond. Examples include without limitation ethynyl propynyl iso propynyl butyryl iso butyryl tert butynyl pentynyl and hexynyl. The term lower alkynyl refers to an alkynyl group as defined herein containing between 2 and 8 carbons.

 Cycloalkyl refers to a mono or poly cyclic alkyl radical. Examples include without limitation cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl.

 Aryl refers to a substituted or unsubstituted monovalent aromatic radical generally having a single ring e.g. phenyl or two condensed rings e.g. naphthyl . This term includes heteroaryl groups which are aromatic ring groups having one or more nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atoms in the ring such as furyl pyrrolyl pyridyl and indolyl. By substituted is meant that one or more ring hydrogens in the aryl group is replaced with a halide such as fluorine chlorine or bromine with a lower alkyl group containing one or two carbon atoms nitro amino methylamino dimethylamino methoxy halomethoxy halomethyl or haloethyl. Preferred substituents include halogen methyl ethyl and methoxy. Generally preferred are aryl groups having a single ring.

 Aralkyl refers to an alkyl preferably lower C C more preferably C C alkyl substituent which is further substituted with an aryl group examples are benzyl CHCH and phenethyl CHCHCH .

 Thioalkoxy refers to a radical of the formula SRc where Rc is an alkyl radical as defined herein. The term lower thioalkoxy refers to an alkoxy group as defined herein containing between 1 and 8 carbons.

 Alkoxy refers to a radical of the formula ORda where Rd is an alkyl radical as defined herein. The term lower alkoxy refers to an alkoxy group as defined herein containing between 1 and 8 carbons. Examples of alkoxy groups include without limitation methoxy and ethoxy.

 Alkylamino refers to a radical of the formula NHRd or NRdRd where each Rd is independently an alkyl radical as defined herein. The term lower alkylamino refers to an alkylamino group as defined herein containing between 1 and 8 carbons.

 Heterocycle means a 5 to 7 membered monocyclic or 7 to 10 membered bicyclic heterocyclic ring which is either saturated unsaturated or aromatic and which contains from 1 to 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may be optionally quaternized including bicyclic rings in which any of the above heterocycles are fused to a benzene ring. The heterocycle may be attached via any heteroatom or carbon atom. Preferably the ring atoms include 3 to 6 carbon atoms. Such heterocycles include for example pyrrolidine piperidine piperazine and morpholine.

Heterocycles include heteroaryls as defined below. Thus in addition to the heteroaryls listed below heterocycles also include morpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperizynyl hydantoinyl valerolactamyl oxiranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl and the like.

 Heteroaryl means an aromatic heterocycle ring of 5 to 10 members and having at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and containing at least 1 carbon atom including both mono and bicyclic ring systems. Representative heteroaryls are pyridyl furyl benzofuranyl thiophenyl benzothiophenyl quinolinyl pyrrolyl indolyl oxazolyl benzoxazolyl imidazolyl benzimidazolyl thiazolyl benzothiazolyl isoxazolyl pyrazolyl isothiazolyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl triazinyl cinnolinyl phthalazinyl and quinazolinyl.

The term substituted with respect to an alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl aralkyl or alkaryl group refers to replacement of a hydrogen atom with a heteroatom containing substituent such as for example halogen hydroxy alkoxy thiol alkylthio amino alkylamino imino oxo keto nitro cyano or various acids or esters such as carboxylic sulfonic or phosphonic.

The term substituted particularly with respect to an alkyl alkoxy thioalkoxy or alkylamino group refers to replacement of a hydrogen atom on carbon with a heteroatom containing substituent such as for example halogen hydroxy alkoxy thiol alkylthio amino alkylamino imino oxo keto nitro cyano or various acids or esters such as carboxylic sulfonic or phosphonic. It may also refer to replacement of a hydrogen atom on a heteroatom such as an amine hydrogen with an alkyl carbonyl or other carbon containing group.

In certain embodiments the terms optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl optionally substituted alkoxy optionally substituted thioalkoxy optionally substituted alkyl amino optionally substituted lower alkyl optionally substituted lower alkenyl optionally substituted lower alkoxy optionally substituted lower thioalkoxy optionally substituted lower alkyl amino and optionally substituted heterocyclyl mean that when substituted at least one hydrogen atom is replaced with a substituent. In the case of an oxo substituent O two hydrogen atoms are replaced. In this regard substituents include deuterium optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl optionally substituted alkynyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heterocycle optionally substituted cycloalkyl oxo halogen CN ORx NRxRy NRxC O Ry NRxSO2Ry NRxC O NRxRy C O Rx C O ORx C O NRxRy SOmRx and SOmNRxRy wherein m is 0 1 or 2 Rx and Ry are the same or different and independently hydrogen optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl optionally substituted alkynyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heterocycle or optionally substituted cycloalkyl and each of said optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl optionally substituted alkynyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heterocycle and optionally substituted cycloalkyl substituents may be further substituted with one or more of oxo halogen CN ORx NRxRy NRxC O Ry NRxSO2Ry NRxC O NRxRy C O Rx C O ORx C O NRxRy SOmRx and SOmNRxRy.

The selection of targeting sequences capable of inhibiting replication of the influenza viral genome are discussed below.

Embodiments of the present invention are based in part on the discovery that effective inhibition of single stranded segmented negative sense RNA viruses can be achieved by exposing animals infected with influenza virus to antisense oligonucleotide compounds i that target 1 the 5 or 3 terminal 25 bases of the negative sense viral RNA 2 the terminal 30 bases of the 5 or 3 terminus of the positive sense mRNA 3 45 bases surrounding the AUG start codons of viral mRNA and or 4 50 bases surrounding the splice donor or acceptor sites of influenza mRNAs subject to alternative splicing and ii having physical and pharmacokinetic features which allow effective interaction between the antisense compound and the virus within host cells. In certain embodiments the oligomers can be used in treating a mammalian subject infected with influenza virus.

Certain embodiments target RNA viruses having genomes that are i single stranded ii segmented and iii negative polarity. The targeted viruses also synthesize two different versions of a genomic complement of the negative sense virion RNA vRNA with positive polarity 1 cRNA that is used as a template for replication of negative sense virion RNA and 2 a complementary positive sense RNA mRNA that is used for translation of viral proteins. is an exemplary schematic that shows these different RNA species and the target location of antisense PMO described in the present invention.

Targeted viral families include members of the Orthomyxoviridae family including the Influenzavirus A Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C genera. Various physical morphological and biological characteristics of members of the Orthomyxoviridae family can be found for example in Textbook of Human Virology R. Belshe ed. 2Edition Mosby 1991 at the Universal Virus Database of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov ICTVdb index.htm and in human virology textbooks see for example Strauss and Strauss 2002 . Some of the key biological characteristics of the Orthomxyoviridae family of viruses are described below.

Influenza A influenza B and influenza C viruses are the only members of the Influenzavirus A Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C genera respectively. These viruses are membrane enclosed viruses whose genomes are segmented negative sense i.e. minus strands of RNA RNA . The ten influenza virus genes are present on eight segments of the single stranded RNA of strains A and B and on seven segments of strain C. The segments vary in size from 890 to 2341 nucleotides in length and each is a template for synthesis of different mRNAs. The influenza virus virion contains virus specific RNA polymerases necessary for mRNA synthesis from these templates and in the absence of such specific polymerases the minus strand of influenza virus RNA is not infectious. Initiation of transcription of the mRNAs occurs when the influenza virus mRNA polymerase takes 12 to 15 nucleotides from the 5 end of a cellular mRNA or mRNA precursor and uses the borrowed oligonucleotide as a primer. This process has been termed cap snatching because it places a 5 cap structure on the viral mRNA. Generally the mRNAs made through this process encode only one protein. The M gene and NS gene viral RNA segments also code for spliced mRNAs which results in production of two different proteins for each of these two segments.

Replication of influenza viral RNA occurs in the nucleus and involves the synthesis of three different species of RNA. A schematic of this process is shown in . After infection of a na ve cell the minus strand virion RNA vRNA is transported to the nucleus where RNA destined for translation mRNA is synthesized using 5 terminal 10 13 nucleotide primers cleaved by viral encoded enzymes from capped cellular pre mRNA molecules i.e. cap snatching . Synthesis of each mRNA continues to near the end of the genome segment where an oligo U stretch is encountered and a poly A tail is added. The dedicated viral mRNAs are transported to the cytoplasm for translation and after sufficient viral proteins are transported back into the nucleus synthesis of vRNA destined for nascent virions is initiated. An exact antigenomic copy of vRNA is synthesized termed cRNA which is a perfect complement of the genomic vRNA and serves as a template for production of new vRNA. The different RNAs synthesized during influenza virus replication are shown schematically in .

GenBank references for exemplary viral nucleic acid target sequences representing influenza A genomic segments are listed in Table 1 below. The nucleotide sequence numbers in Table 1 are derived from the Genbank reference for the positive strand RNA. It will be appreciated that these sequences are only illustrative of other sequences in the Orthomyxoviridae family as may be available from available gene sequence databases of literature or patent resources. The sequences below identified as SEQ ID NOs 1 11 are also listed in the Sequence Listing at the end of the specification.

Table 1 lists the targets for the influenza A viral genes M1 and M2 encoded by genomic segment 7. The target sequences in Table 1 represent 1 the 3 terminal 25 bases of the negative sense viral RNA SEQ ID NO 4 2 the terminal 25 bases of the 5 terminus of the positive sense mRNA SEQ ID NO 3 3 45 bases surrounding the AUG start codon of the indicated influenza virus genes SEQ ID NO 2 . The sequences shown are the positive strand i.e. antigenomic or mRNA sequence in the 5 to 3 orientation except for SEQ ID NO 4 which is the sequence of the minus strand i.e. genomic or virion RNA . It will be apparent that when the target is the minus strand vRNA the targeted sequence is the complement of the sequence listed in Table 1 unless otherwise noted e.g. SEQ ID NO 4.

The M1 and M2 proteins are components of the viral matrix protein and ion channel activity respectively. The two proteins are produced from alternative splice forms of the segment 7 vcRNA that utilize the same AUG start site. The M2 protein is the target of two current anti influenza therapeutics amantadine and rimantadine. An exemplary target sequence for the AUG start codon region 20 to 25 relative to the AUG start codon of the M1 M2 genes is represented as SEQ ID NO 2 which is a subsequence of the terminal 60 nucleotide region listed as SEQ ID NO 1. The 3 terminal target sequence 25 nucleotides of the M1 M2 segment is represented by SEQ ID NO 3 which is also a subsequence of the terminal 60 nucleotide region and can be targeted on both the positive strand vcRNA and the negative strand vRNA of the segment. The 5 terminal sequence SEQ ID NO 3 can be successfully targeted on the minus strand shown below as SEQ ID NO 4. SEQ ID NOs 1 4 are from the 2009H1N1virus S OIV and derived from an exemplary isolate of the virus found in the GenBank database under accession number GQ332646. 5 terminal 60 nucleotide regions of other reference influenza A subtypes are listed in Table 1 as SEQ ID NOs 5 6 7 8 for H1N1 H5N1 H3N2 and HN respectively. Corresponding AUG and terminal target regions can be derived from these viral sequences using the guidance described above.

It is also possible to target the splice donor and acceptor regions of the M1 M2 segment. The splice donor and splice acceptor sites are at nucleotides 51 and 740 respectively. Targeting of either splice junction using antisense compounds of the invention is contemplated. Furthermore it is possible to block both the AUG start site and the splice donor site using an appropriately designed antisense compounds e.g. SEQ ID NOs 12 16 and 19 22 . The splice acceptor target region is shown below for the 2009H1N1 S OIV subtype as SEQ ID NO 10. The corresponding region for the H5N1 subtype is listed in Table 1 as SEQ ID NO 9.

Furthermore it is contemplated that any translation sensitive splice sensitive or replication sensitive region of the M1 M2 segment can be targeted using compounds of the invention. The reference M1 M2 segment 7 sequence for the prototypic H1N1 subtype Puerto Rico 8 34 is shown in Table 1 as SEQ ID NO 11 and can be found in the GenBank Reference Sequence database under NC 002016. Corresponding M1 M2 segment sequences can be obtained from publicly available sequence databases. It is contemplated that antisense compounds of the invention can be targeted to other regions of this segment with the expectation that additional translation splice and or replication sensitive target regions can be identified.

In certain embodiments antisense targeting sequences are designed to hybridize to a region of one or more of the target sequences listed in Table 1. Selected antisense targeting sequences can be made shorter e.g. about 12 bases or longer e.g. about 40 bases and include a small number of mismatches as long as the sequence is sufficiently complementary to effect translational splice and or replication inhibition upon hybridization with the target and forms with the viral RNA a heteroduplex having a Tm of 45 C. or greater.

In certain embodiments the degree of complementarity between the target and antisense targeting sequence is sufficient to form a stable duplex. The region of complementarity of the antisense oligomers with the target RNA sequence may be as short as 8 11 bases but is preferably 12 15 bases or more e.g. 12 20 bases or 12 25 bases including all integers in between these ranges. An antisense oligomer of about 14 15 bases is generally long enough to have a unique complementary sequence in the viral genome. In certain embodiments a minimum length of complementary bases may be required to achieve the requisite binding Tm as discussed below.

In certain embodiments oligomers as long as 40 bases may be suitable where at least a minimum number of bases e.g. 10 12 bases are complementary to the target sequence. In general however facilitated or active uptake in cells is optimized at oligomer lengths less than about 30. For PMO oligomers described further below an optimum balance of binding stability and uptake generally occurs at lengths of 18 25 bases. Included are antisense oligomers e.g. PNAs LNAs 2 OMe and PMO oligomers that consist of about 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 or 40 bases in which at least about 6 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 or 40 contiguous or non contiguous bases are complementary to the target sequences of SEQ ID NOS 1 11 or variants thereof.

In certain embodiments antisense oligomers may be 100 complementary to the viral nucleic acid target sequence or it may include mismatches e.g. to accommodate variants as long as a heteroduplex formed between the oligomer and viral nucleic acid target sequence is sufficiently stable to withstand the action of cellular nucleases and other modes of degradation which may occur in vivo. Oligomer backbones which are less susceptible to cleavage by nucleases are discussed below. Mismatches if present are less destabilizing toward the end regions of the hybrid duplex than in the middle. The number of mismatches allowed will depend on the length of the oligomer the percentage of G C base pairs in the duplex and the position of the mismatch es in the duplex according to well understood principles of duplex stability. Although such an antisense oligomer is not necessarily 100 complementary to the viral nucleic acid target sequence it is effective to stably and specifically bind to the target sequence such that a biological activity of the nucleic acid target e.g. expression of viral protein s is modulated.

The stability of the duplex formed between an oligomer and a target sequence is a function of the binding Tm and the susceptibility of the duplex to cellular enzymatic cleavage. The Tm of an antisense compound with respect to complementary sequence RNA may be measured by conventional methods such as those described by Hames et al. IRL Press 1985 pp. 107 108 or as described in Miyada C. G. and Wallace R. B. 1987 Oligonucleotide Hybridization Techniques . Vol. 154 pp. 94 107. In certain embodiments antisense oligomer may have a binding Tm with respect to a complementary sequence RNA of greater than body temperature and preferably greater than about 45 C. or 50 C. Tm s in the range 60 80 C. or greater are preferred. According to well known principles the Tm of an oligomer compound with respect to a complementary based RNA hybrid can be increased by increasing the ratio of C G paired bases in the duplex and or by increasing the length in base pairs of the heteroduplex. At the same time for purposes of optimizing cellular uptake it may be advantageous to limit the size of the oligomer. For this reason compounds that show high Tm 45 50 C. or greater at a length of 25 bases or less are generally preferred over those requiring greater than 25 bases for high Tm values.

In certain embodiments such as PMO oligomers the antisense activity of an oligomer may be enhanced by using a mixture of uncharged and cationic phosphorodiamidate linkages as exemplified in . The total number of cationic linkages in the oligomer can vary from 1 to 10 including all integers in between and be interspersed throughout the oligomer. Preferably the number of charged linkages is at least 2 and no more than half the total backbone linkages e.g. between 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 positively charged linkages and preferably each charged linkages is separated along the backbone by at least 1 2 3 4 or 5 uncharged linkages. The antisense activity of various oligomers can be measured in vitro by fusing the oligomer target region to the 5 end a reporter gene e.g. firefly luciferase and then measuring the inhibition of translation of the fusion gene mRNA transcripts in cell free translation assays. The inhibitory properties of oligomers containing a mixture of uncharged and cationic linkages can be enhanced between approximately five to 100 fold in cell free translation assays. A preferred antisense oligomer of the invention M1 M2 AUG in a form that contains three cationic linkages as illustrated in and interspersed throughout the oligomer is shown as SEQ ID NO 13 in Table 2 below. A series of exemplary antisense oligomers that target the M1 M2 AUG and contain three interspersed cationic linkages is shown in SEQ ID NOs 34 47.

Table 2 below shows exemplary targeting sequences in a 5 to 3 orientation that are complementary to influenza A virus. The sequences listed provide a collection of targeting sequences from which targeting sequences may be selected according to the general class rules discussed above. Although the listed targeting sequences could be used for any antisense analog oligonucleotide chemistry e.g. PNA LNA or 2 OMe the sequences in Table 2 are preferred for use as PMO antisense oligomers. SEQ ID NOs 12 22 25 29 and 34 47 are antisense to the positive strand mRNA or vcRNA of the virus whereas SEQ ID NOs 23 and 24 are antisense to the minus strand vRNA . Thus for example in selecting a target against the 3 terminus of the minus strand of the M1 M2 encoding segment segment 7 of influenza A SEQ ID NO 4 or a portion of the sequence effective to block the function of the 3 terminus of the minus strand can be selected. SEQ ID NOs 12 29 and 34 47 target the M1 M2 segment of Influenza A subtype H1N1 S OIV whereas SEQ ID NOs 30 33 target the PB1 or NP segments as indicated.

As detailed above the antisense oligonucleotide the term antisense indicates that the compound is targeted against either the virus positive sense strand RNA or negative sense or minus strand typically comprises a base sequence targeting a region that includes one or more of the following 1 the 5 or 3 terminal 25 bases of the negative sense viral RNA 2 the terminal 30 bases of the 5 or 3 terminus of the positive sense vcRNA 3 45 bases surrounding the AUG start codons of viral mRNA and or 4 50 bases surrounding the splice donor or acceptor sites of influenza mRNAs subject to alternative splicing. In addition the oligomer is able to effectively target infecting viruses when administered to a host cell e.g. in an infected mammalian subject such as by reducing target protein expression e.g. M1 or M2 or both by reducing viral replication or both. This requirement is typically met when the oligomer compound a has the ability to be actively taken up by mammalian cells and b once taken up form a duplex with the target RNA with a Tm greater than about 45 C.

In certain embodiments the oligomer backbone may be substantially uncharged and preferably may be recognized as a substrate for active or facilitated transport across the cell membrane. The ability of the oligomer to form a stable duplex with the target RNA may also relate to other features of the oligomer backbone including the length and degree of complementarity of the antisense oligomer with respect to the target the ratio of G C to A T base matches and the positions of any mismatched bases. The ability of the antisense oligomer to resist cellular nucleases may promote survival and ultimate delivery of the agent to the cell cytoplasm. Exemplary antisense oligomer targeting sequences of the invention using the PMO backbone chemistry are listed above in Table 2. Targeting sequences using alternative chemistries are listed below in Tables 3 and 4 for PNA and LNA chemistries respectively. In general PNA and LNA chemistries utilize shorter targeting oligomers due to their relatively high target binding strength compared to PMO and 2 O Me oligomers.

Peptide nucleic acids PNAs are analogs of DNA in which the backbone is structurally homomorphous with a deoxyribose backbone consisting of N 2 aminoethyl glycine units to which pyrimidine or purine bases are attached. PNAs containing natural pyrimidine and purine bases hybridize to complementary oligonucleotides obeying Watson Crick base pairing rules and mimic DNA in terms of base pair recognition Egholm Buchardt et al. 1993 . The backbone of PNAs is formed by peptide bonds rather than phosphodiester bonds making them well suited for antisense applications see structure below . The backbone is uncharged resulting in PNA DNA or PNA RNA duplexes that exhibit greater than normal thermal stability. PNAs are not recognized by nucleases or proteases.

PNAs can be produced synthetically using any technique known in the art. A PNA is a DNA analog in which a polyamide backbone replaces the traditional phosphate ribose ring of DNA as illustrated below.

Despite a radical structural change to the natural structure PNAs are capable of sequence specific binding in a helix form to DNA or RNA. Characteristics of PNAs include a high binding affinity to complementary DNA or RNA a destabilizing effect caused by single base mismatch resistance to nucleases and proteases hybridization with DNA or RNA independent of salt concentration and triplex formation with homopurine DNA. PANAGENE has developed its proprietary Bts PNA monomers Bts benzothiazole 2 sulfonyl group and proprietary oligomerization process. The PNA oligomerization using Bts PNA monomers is composed of repetitive cycles of deprotection coupling and capping. Exemplary patents to this technology include U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 969 766 7 211 668 7 022 851 7 125 994 7 145 006 and 7 179 896. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of PNA compounds include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 539 082 5 714 331 and 5 719 262 each of which is herein incorporated by reference. Further teaching of PNA compounds can be found in Nielsen et al. 254 1497 1500 1991.

Exemplary PNA compounds for practicing the invention are listed below in Table 3. These oligonucleotides can be prepared essentially according to the procedures set forth in the references cited herein.

Oligonucleotide compounds of the present invention may also contain locked nucleic acid subunits LNAs . The structures of LNAs can be found for example in Wengel et al. Chemical Communications 1998 455 1998 54 3607 and Accounts of Chem. Research 1999 32 301 Obika et al. 1997 38 8735 1998 39 5401 and 2008 16 9230. Non limiting exemplary LNA structures are illustrated below 

Compounds of the invention may incorporate one or more LNAs in some cases the compounds may be entirely composed of LNAs. Methods for the synthesis of individual LNA nucleoside subunits and their incorporation into oligonucleotides are known in the art U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 572 582 7 569 575 7 084 125 7 060 809 7 053 207 7 034 133 6 794 499 and 6 670 461. Typical intersubunit linkers include phosphodiester and phosphorothioate moieties alternatively non phosphorous containing linkers may be employed. A preferred embodiment is an LNA containing compound where each LNA subunit is separated by a DNA subunit. Further preferred compounds are composed of alternating LNA and DNA subunits where the intersubunit linker is phosphorothioate.

The following compounds are prepared essentially according to the procedures set forth in the references cited above. Exemplary compounds containing LNA subunits LNAs are capitalized DNAs are in lower case and the sequences are read from 5 to 3 are shown below in Table 4.

A preferred oligomer structure employs morpholino based subunits bearing base pairing moieties joined by uncharged linkages as described above. Especially preferred is a substantially uncharged phosphorodiamidate linked morpholino oligomer. Morpholino oligonucleotides including antisense oligomers are detailed for example in co owned U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 698 685 5 217 866 5 142 047 5 034 506 5 166 315 5 185 444 5 521 063 and 5 506 337 and in PCT application No. US2008 012804 all of which are expressly incorporated by reference.

Certain properties of the morpholino based subunits include the ability to be linked in a oligomeric form by stable uncharged backbone linkages the ability to support a nucleotide base e.g. adenine cytosine guanine or uracil such that the polymer formed can hybridize with a complementary base target nucleic acid including target RNA with high Tm even with oligomers as short as 10 14 bases the ability of the oligomer to be actively transported into mammalian cells and the ability of the oligomer RNA heteroduplex to resist RNase degradation.

Examples of morpholino oligonucleotides having phosphorus containing backbone linkages are illustrated in . Especially preferred is a phosphorodiamidate linked morpholino oligonucleotide as shown in which is modified in accordance with one aspect of the present invention to contain positively charged groups at preferably 10 50 of its backbone linkages. Morpholino oligonucleotides with uncharged backbone linkages including antisense oligonucleotides are detailed for example in Summerton and Weller 1997 and in co owned U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 698 685 5 217 866 5 142 047 5 034 506 5 166 315 5 185 444 5 521 063 and 5 506 337 and in PCT application No. US2008 012804 all of which are incorporated by reference. Exemplary morpholino oligonucleotides with charged backbone linkages and or modified terminal groups including antisense oligonucleotides are detailed in PCT application No. US2007 011435 co pending U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 349 783 and co pending U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 361 878 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Properties of the morpholino based subunits include 1 the ability to be linked in a oligomeric form by stable uncharged or positively charged backbone linkages 2 the ability to support a nucleotide base e.g. adenine cytosine guanine thymidine uracil and hypoxanthine such that the polymer formed can hybridize with a complementary base target nucleic acid including target RNA Tm values above about 45 C. in relatively short oligonucleotides e.g. 10 15 bases 3 the ability of the oligonucleotide to be actively or passively transported into mammalian cells and 4 the ability of the antisense oligonucleotide RNA heteroduplex to resist RNase and RNaseH degradation respectively.

Exemplary backbone structures for antisense oligonucleotides of the claimed subject matter include the morpholino subunit types shown in each linked by an uncharged or positively charged phosphorus containing subunit linkage. shows a phosphorus containing linkage which forms the five atom repeating unit backbone where the morpholino rings are linked by a 1 atom phosphoamide linkage. shows a linkage which produces a 6 atom repeating unit backbone. In this structure the atom Y linking the 5 morpholino carbon to the phosphorus group may be sulfur nitrogen carbon or preferably oxygen. The X moiety pendant from the phosphorus may be fluorine an alkyl or substituted alkyl an alkoxy or substituted alkoxy a thioalkoxy or substituted thioalkoxy or unsubstituted monosubstituted or disubstituted nitrogen including cyclic structures such as morpholines or piperidines. Alkyl alkoxy and thioalkoxy preferably include 1 6 carbon atoms. The Z moieties are sulfur or oxygen and are preferably oxygen.

The linkages shown in are designed for 7 atom unit length backbones. In structure 1F the X moiety is as in Structure 1E and the Y moiety may be methylene sulfur or preferably oxygen. In Structure 1G the X and Y moieties are as in Structure 1E. Particularly preferred morpholino oligonucleotides include those composed of morpholino subunit structures of the form shown in where X NH N CH or 1 piperazine or other charged group Y O and Z O.

As noted above the substantially uncharged oligonucleotide may be modified in accordance with an aspect of the invention to include charged linkages e.g. up to about 1 per every 2 5 uncharged linkages such as about 4 5 per every 10 uncharged linkages. In certain embodiments optimal improvement in antisense activity may be seen when about 25 of the backbone linkages are cationic. In certain embodiments enhancement may be seen with a small number e.g. 10 20 cationic linkages or where the number of cationic linkages are in the range 50 80 such as about 60 .

Additional experiments conducted in support of the present invention indicate that the enhancement seen with added cationic backbone charges may in some cases be further enhanced by distributing the bulk of the charges close of the center region backbone linkages of the antisense oligonucleotide e.g. in a 20 mer oligonucleotide with 8 cationic backbone linkages having at least 70 of these charged linkages localized in the 10 centermost linkages.

In certain embodiments the antisense compounds can be prepared by stepwise solid phase synthesis employing methods detailed in the references cited above and below with respect to the synthesis of oligonucleotides having a mixture or uncharged and cationic backbone linkages. In some cases it may be desirable to add additional chemical moieties to the antisense compound e.g. to enhance pharmacokinetics or to facilitate capture or detection of the compound. Such a moiety may be covalently attached typically to a terminus of the oligomer according to standard synthetic methods. For example addition of a polyethyleneglycol moiety or other hydrophilic polymer e.g. one having 10 100 monomeric subunits may be useful in enhancing solubility. One or more charged groups e.g. anionic charged groups such as an organic acid may enhance cell uptake.

A reporter moiety such as fluorescein or a radiolabeled group may be attached for purposes of detection. Alternatively the reporter label attached to the oligomer may be a ligand such as an antigen or biotin capable of binding a labeled antibody or streptavidin. In selecting a moiety for attachment or modification of an antisense compound it is generally of course desirable to select chemical compounds of groups that are biocompatible and likely to be tolerated by a subject without undesirable side effects.

As noted above certain of the antisense compounds can be constructed to contain a selected number of cationic linkages interspersed with uncharged linkages of the type described above. The intersubunit linkages both uncharged and cationic preferably are phosphorus containing linkages having the structure 

 a uncharged linkage a where each of R R Rand Ris independently selected from hydrogen and lower alkyl 

 b1 cationic linkage b1 where X NR Rand Y O and NR Rrepresents an optionally substituted piperazino group such that R R CHRCHRN R R CHRCHR where

Ris selected from H lower alkyl e.g. CH C NH NH Z L NHC NH NH and C O CHR NH H where Z is C O or a direct bond L is an optional linker up to 18 atoms in length preferably up to 12 atoms and more preferably up to 8 atoms in length having bonds selected from alkyl alkoxy and alkylamino R is a side chain of a naturally occurring amino acid or a one or two carbon homolog thereof and m is 1 to 6 preferably 1 to 4 

 b2 cationic linkage b2 where X NR Rand Y O R H or CH and R LNRRR where L R and Rare as defined above and Ris H lower alkyl or lower alkoxy alkyl and

 b3 cationic linkage b3 where Y NRand X OR and R LNRRR where L R Rand Rare as defined above and Ris H or lower alkyl 

In certain embodiments an oligomer may include at least two consecutive linkages of type a i.e. uncharged linkages . In further embodiments at least 5 of the linkages in the oligomer are cationic linkages i.e. type b1 b2 or b3 for example 10 to 60 and preferably 20 50 linkages may be cationic linkages.

In one embodiment at least one linkage is of type b1 where preferably each R is H Ris H CH or an electron pair and Ris selected from H lower alkyl e.g. CH C NH NH and C O L NHC NH NH. The latter two embodiments of Rprovide a guanidino moiety either attached directly to the piperazine ring or pendant to a linker group L respectively. For ease of synthesis the variable Z in Ris preferably C O carbonyl as shown.

The linker group L as noted above contains bonds in its backbone selected from alkyl e.g. CH CH alkoxy C O and alkylamino e.g. CH NH with the proviso that the terminal atoms in L e.g. those adjacent to carbonyl or nitrogen are carbon atoms. Although branched linkages e.g. CH CHCH are possible the linker is preferably unbranched. In one embodiment the linker is a hydrocarbon linker. Such a linker may have the structure CH where n is 1 12 preferably 2 8 and more preferably 2 6.

The use of embodiments of linkage types b1 b2 and b3 above to link morpholino subunits may be illustrated graphically as follows 

Preferably all cationic linkages in the oligomer are of the same type i.e. all of type b1 all of type b2 or all of type b3 .

In further embodiments the cationic linkages are selected from linkages b1 and b1 as shown below where b1 is referred to herein as a Pip linkage and b1 is referred to herein as a GuX linkage 

In the structures above W is S or O and is preferably O each of Rand Ris independently selected from hydrogen and lower alkyl and is preferably methyl and A represents hydrogen or a non interfering substituent on one or more carbon atoms in b1 and b1 . Preferably the ring carbons in the piperazine ring are unsubstituted however they may include non interfering substituents such as methyl or fluorine. Preferably at most one or two carbon atoms is so substituted. In further embodiments at least 10 of the linkages are of type b1 or b1 for example 10 60 and preferably 20 to 50 of the linkages may be of type b1 or b1 .

In certain embodiments the oligomer contains no linkages of the type b1 above. Alternatively the oligomer contains no linkages of type b1 where each R is H Ris H or CH and Ris H CH or an electron pair.

The morpholino subunits may also be linked by non phosphorus based intersubunit linkages as described further below where at least one linkage is modified with a pendant cationic group as described above.

Other oligonucleotide analog linkages which are uncharged in their unmodified state but which could also bear a pendant amine substituent could be used. For example a 5 nitrogen atom on a morpholino ring could be employed in a sulfamide linkage or a urea linkage where phosphorus is replaced with carbon or sulfur respectively and modified in a manner analogous to the 5 nitrogen atom in structure b3 above.

Oligomers having any number of cationic linkages are provided including fully cationic linked oligomers. Preferably however the oligomers are partially charged having for example 10 80 . In preferred embodiments about 10 to 60 and preferably 20 to 50 of the linkages are cationic.

In one embodiment the cationic linkages are interspersed along the backbone. The partially charged oligomers preferably contain at least two consecutive uncharged linkages that is the oligomer preferably does not have a strictly alternating pattern along its entire length.

Also considered are oligomers having blocks of cationic linkages and blocks of uncharged linkages for example a central block of uncharged linkages may be flanked by blocks of cationic linkages or vice versa. In one embodiment the oligomer has approximately equal length 5 3 and center regions and the percentage of cationic linkages in the center region is greater than about 50 preferably greater than about 70 .

Oligomers for use in antisense applications generally range in length from about 10 to about 40 subunits more preferably about 10 to 30 subunits and typically 15 25 bases. For example an oligomer of the invention having 19 20 subunits a useful length for an antisense compound may ideally have two to ten e.g. four to eight cationic linkages and the remainder uncharged linkages. An oligomer having 14 15 subunits may ideally have two to seven e.g. 3 4 or 5 cationic linkages and the remainder uncharged linkages.

Each morpholino ring structure supports a base pairing moiety to form a sequence of base pairing moieties which is typically designed to hybridize to a selected antisense target in a cell or in a subject being treated. The base pairing moiety may be a purine or pyrimidine found in native DNA or RNA e.g. A G C T or U or an analog such as hypoxanthine the base component of the nucleoside inosine or 5 methyl cytosine.

In certain embodiments the antisense compounds of the invention may include an oligonucleotide moiety conjugated to an arginine rich peptide transport moiety effective to enhance transport of the compound into cells. The transport moiety may be attached to a terminus of the oligomer as shown for example in . The peptide transport moiety preferably comprises 6 to 16 subunits selected from X subunits Y subunits and Z subunits where

 a each X subunit independently represents lysine arginine or an arginine analog said analog being a cationic amino acid comprising a side chain of the structure RN C NH R where Ris H or R Ris R NH NHR or NR where R is lower alkyl or lower alkenyl and may further include oxygen or nitrogen Rand Rmay together form a ring and the side chain is linked to said amino acid via Ror R 

 b each Y subunit independently represents a neutral amino acid C O CHR NH where n is 2 to 7 and each R is independently H or methyl and

wherein the peptide comprises a sequence represented by one of X Y X X Y X and X Z Z where p is 2 to 5 and m is 2 to 9. Certain embodiments include various combinations selected independently from X Y X X Y X and or X Z Z including for example peptides having the sequence X Y X X Z Z X Y X X Z Z SEQ ID NO 129 .

In selected embodiments for each X the side chain moiety is guanidyl as in the amino acid subunit arginine Arg . In further embodiments each Y is CO CH CHR NH where n is 2 to 7 and R is H. For example when n is 5 and R is H Y is a 6 aminohexanoic acid subunit abbreviated herein as Ahx when n is 2 and R is H Y is a alanine subunit abbreviated herein as B. Certain embodiments relate to carrier peptides having a combination of different neutral amino acids including for example peptides comprising the sequence RAhxRRBRRAhxRRBRAhxB SEQ ID NO 124 which contains both alanine and 6 aminohexanoic acid.

Preferred peptides of this type include those comprising arginine dimers alternating with single Y subunits where Y is preferably Ahx. Examples include peptides having the formula RY R or the formula RRY where Y is preferably Ahx. In one embodiment Y is a 6 aminohexanoic acid subunit R is arginine and p is 4.

Certain embodiments include various linear combinations of at least two of RY R and RRY including for example illustrative peptides having the sequence RY R RRY RY R RRY SEQ ID NO 130 or RRY RY R RRY SEQ ID NO 131 . Other combinations are contemplated. In a further illustrative embodiment each Z is phenylalanine and m is 3 or 4.

The conjugated peptide is preferably linked to a terminus of the oligomer via a linker Ahx B where Ahx is a 6 aminohexanoic acid subunit and B is a alanine subunit as shown for example in . Alternative linkers between the peptide and oligomer include glycine and cysteine. These and related linkers may be conjugated through an amide or disulfide bond.

In selected embodiments for each X the side chain moiety is independently selected from the group consisting of guanidyl HN C NH NH amidinyl HN C NH C

In certain embodiments the Y subunits may be either contiguous in that no X subunits intervene between Y subunits or interspersed singly between X subunits. In certain embodiments the linking subunit may be between Y subunits. In one embodiment the Y subunits are at a terminus of the transporter in other embodiments they are flanked by X subunits. In further preferred embodiments each Y is CO CH CHR NH where n is 2 to 7 and R is H. For example when n is 5 and R is H Y is a 6 aminohexanoic acid subunit abbreviated herein as Ahx.

In selected embodiments of this group each X comprises a guanidyl side chain moiety as in an arginine subunit. Preferred peptides of this type include those comprising arginine dimers alternating with single Y subunits where Y is preferably Ahx. Examples include peptides having the formula RY R SEQ ID NO 132 or the formula RRY SEQ ID NO 133 where Y is preferably Ahx. In the latter case the nucleic acid analog is preferably linked to a terminal Y subunit preferably at the C terminus as shown for example in . One exemplary linker is of the structure AhxB where Ahx is a 6 aminohexanoic acid subunit and B is a alanine subunit. Alternative linkers include cysteine and glycine.

The transport moieties as described herein have been shown to greatly enhance cell entry of attached oligomers relative to uptake of the oligomer in the absence of the attached transport moiety and relative to uptake by an attached transport moiety lacking the hydrophobic subunits Y . Such enhanced uptake is preferably evidenced by at least a two fold increase and preferably a four fold increase in the uptake of the compound into mammalian cells relative to uptake of the agent by an attached transport moiety lacking the hydrophobic subunits Y . Uptake is preferably enhanced at least twenty fold and more preferably forty fold relative to the unconjugated compound.

A further benefit of the transport moiety is its expected ability to stabilize a duplex between an antisense compound and its target nucleic acid sequence presumably by virtue of electrostatic interaction between the positively charged transport moiety and the negatively charged nucleic acid. The number of charged subunits in the transporter is less than 14 as noted above and preferably between 8 and 11.

The use of arginine rich peptide transporters i.e. cell penetrating peptides are particularly useful in practicing certain embodiments of the present invention. Certain peptide transporters have been shown to be highly effective at delivery of antisense compounds into primary cells including hematopoietic and muscle cells Marshall Oda et al. 2007 Jearawiriyapaisarn Moulton et al. 2008 Wu Moulton et al. 2008 . Furthermore compared to other known peptide transporters such as Penetratin and the Tat peptide the peptide transporters described herein when conjugated to an antisense PMO demonstrate an enhanced ability to alter splicing of several gene transcripts Marshall Oda et al. 2007 . Exemplary peptides in these studies include P007 SEQ ID NO 118 CP04057 SEQ ID NO 123 and CP06062 SEQ ID NO 124 .

Exemplary peptide transporters including linkers B AhxB C or G are given below in Table 5. In certain embodiments the exemplary peptide transporters listed in Table 5 can be conjugated to PMO through disulfide or amide linkages.

The influenza target regions described herein e.g. M1 M2 SEQ ID NOS 1 11 may also be targeted by a variety of RNA interference based methods. RNA interference RNAi is an evolutionarily conserved gene silencing mechanism originally discovered in studies of the nematode Lee et al. 75 843 1993 Reinhart et al. 403 901 2000 . It may be triggered by introducing dsRNA into cells expressing the appropriate molecular machinery which then degrades the corresponding endogenous mRNA. The mechanism involves conversion of dsRNA into short RNAs that direct ribonucleases to homologous mRNA targets summarized for example by Ruvkun 2294 797 2001 .

In certain embodiments the methods provided herein may utilize double stranded ribonucleic acid dsRNA molecules as modulating agents for reducing influenza virus replication such as by interfering with M1 or M2 protein expression. dsRNAs generally comprise two single strands. One strand of the dsRNA comprises a nucleotide sequence that is substantially identical to a portion of the target gene or target region the sense strand and the other strand the complementary or antisense strand comprises a sequence that is substantially complementary to a portion of the target region. The strands are sufficiently complementary to hybridize to form a duplex structure. In certain embodiments the complementary RNA strand may be less than 30 nucleotides less than 25 nucleotides in length or even 19 to 24 nucleotides in length. In certain aspects the complementary nucleotide sequence may be 20 23 nucleotides in length or 22 nucleotides in length.

In certain embodiments at least one of the RNA strands comprises a nucleotide overhang of 1 to 4 nucleotides in length. In other embodiments the dsRNA may further comprise at least one chemically modified nucleotide. In certain aspects a dsRNA comprising a single stranded overhang of 1 to 4 nucleotides may comprise a molecule wherein the unpaired nucleotide of the single stranded overhang that is directly adjacent to the terminal nucleotide pair contains a purine base. In other aspects the last complementary nucleotide pairs on both ends of a dsRNA are a G C pair or at least two of the last four terminal nucleotide pairs are G C pairs.

Certain embodiments of the present invention may comprise microRNAs. Micro RNAs represent a large group of small RNAs produced naturally in organisms some of which regulate the expression of target genes. Micro RNAs are formed from an approximately 70 nucleotide single stranded hairpin precursor transcript by Dicer. V. Ambros et al. Current Biology 13 807 2003 . Micro RNAs are not translated into proteins but instead bind to specific messenger RNAs thereby blocking translation. It is thought that micro RNAs base pair imprecisely with their targets to inhibit translation. Certain micro RNAs may be transcribed as hairpin RNA precursors which are then processed to their mature forms by Dicer enzyme.

In certain embodiments the modulating agent or RNAi oligonucleotide is single stranded. In other embodiments the modulating agent or RNAi oligonucleotide is double stranded. Certain embodiments may also employ short interfering RNAs siRNA . In certain embodiments the first strand of the double stranded oligonucleotide contains two more nucleoside residues than the second strand. In other embodiments the first strand and the second strand have the same number of nucleosides however the first and second strands are offset such that the two terminal nucleosides on the first and second strands are not paired with a residue on the complimentary strand. In certain instances the two nucleosides that are not paired are thymidine resides.

In instances when the modulating agent comprises siRNA the agent should include a region of sufficient homology to the target region and be of sufficient length in terms of nucleotides such that the siRNA agent or a fragment thereof can mediate down regulation of the target RNA. It will be understood that the term ribonucleotide or nucleotide can in the case of a modified RNA or nucleotide surrogate also refer to a modified nucleotide or surrogate replacement moiety at one or more positions. Thus an siRNA agent is or includes a region which is at least partially complementary to the target RNA. It is not necessary that there be perfect complementarity between the siRNA agent and the target but the correspondence must be sufficient to enable the siRNA agent or a cleavage product thereof to direct sequence specific silencing such as by RNAi cleavage of the target RNA. Complementarity or degree of homology with the target strand is most critical in the antisense strand. While perfect complementarity particularly in the antisense strand is often desired some embodiments include one or more but preferably 10 8 6 5 4 3 2 or fewer mismatches with respect to the target RNA. The mismatches are most tolerated in the terminal regions and if present are preferably in a terminal region or regions e.g. within 6 5 4 or 3 nucleotides of the 5 and or 3 terminus. The sense strand need only be sufficiently complementary with the antisense strand to maintain the overall double strand character of the molecule.

In addition an siRNA modulating agent may be modified or include nucleoside surrogates. Single stranded regions of an siRNA agent may be modified or include nucleoside surrogates e.g. the unpaired region or regions of a hairpin structure e.g. a region which links two complementary regions can have modifications or nucleoside surrogates. Modification to stabilize one or more 3 or 5 terminus of an siRNA agent e.g. against exonucleases or to favor the antisense siRNA agent to enter into RISC are also useful. Modifications can include C3 or C6 C7 C12 amino linkers thiol linkers carboxyl linkers non nucleotidic spacers C3 C6 C9 C12 abasic triethylene glycol hexaethylene glycol special biotin or fluorescein reagents that come as phosphoramidites and that have another DMT protected hydroxyl group allowing multiple couplings during RNA synthesis.

siRNA agents may include for example molecules that are long enough to trigger the interferon response which can be cleaved by Dicer Bernstein et al. 409 363 366 2001 and enter a RISC RNAi induced silencing complex in addition to molecules which are sufficiently short that they do not trigger the interferon response which molecules can also be cleaved by Dicer and or enter a RISC e.g. molecules which are of a size which allows entry into a RISC e.g. molecules which resemble Dicer cleavage products. Molecules that are short enough that they do not trigger an interferon response are termed siRNA agents or shorter RNAi agents herein. siRNA agent or shorter RNAi agent as used refers to an siRNA agent that is sufficiently short that it does not induce a deleterious interferon response in a human cell e.g. it has a duplexed region of less than 60 but preferably less than 50 40 or 30 nucleotide pairs. An siRNA modulating agent or a cleavage product thereof can down regulate a target gene e.g. by inducing RNAi with respect to a target RNA preferably an influenza target RNA such as M1 or M2.

Each strand of an siRNA modulating agent can be equal to or less than 35 30 25 24 23 22 21 or 20 nucleotides in length. The strand is preferably at least 19 nucleotides in length. For example each strand can be between 21 and 25 nucleotides in length. Preferred siRNA agents have a duplex region of 17 18 19 29 21 22 23 24 or 25 nucleotide pairs and one or more overhangs preferably one or two 3 overhangs of 2 3 nucleotides.

In addition to homology to target RNA and the ability to down regulate a target gene an siRNA modulating agent may have one or more of the following properties it may despite modifications even to a very large number or all of the nucleosides have an antisense strand that can present bases or modified bases in the proper three dimensional framework so as to be able to form correct base pairing and form a duplex structure with a homologous target RNA which is sufficient to allow down regulation of the target e.g. by cleavage of the target RNA it may despite modifications even to a very large number or all of the nucleosides still have RNA like properties i.e. it may possess the overall structural chemical and physical properties of an RNA molecule even though not exclusively or even partly of ribonucleotide based content. For example an siRNA agent can contain e.g. a sense and or an antisense strand in which all of the nucleotide sugars contain e.g. 2 fluoro in place of 2 hydroxyl. This deoxyribonucleotide containing agent can still be expected to exhibit RNA like properties. While not wishing to be bound by theory the electronegative fluorine prefers an axial orientation when attached to the C2 position of ribose. This spatial preference of fluorine can in turn force the sugars to adopt a C endo pucker. This is the same puckering mode as observed in RNA molecules and gives rise to the RNA characteristic A family type helix. Further since fluorine is a good hydrogen bond acceptor it can participate in the same hydrogen bonding interactions with water molecules that are known to stabilize RNA structures. Generally it is preferred that a modified moiety at the 2 sugar position will be able to enter into H bonding which is more characteristic of the OH moiety of a ribonucleotide than the H moiety of a deoxyribonucleotide.

A single strand RNAi agent as used herein is an RNAi agent which is made up of a single molecule. It may include a duplexed region formed by intra strand pairing e.g. it may be or include a hairpin or pan handle structure. Single strand RNAi modulating agents are preferably antisense with regard to the target molecule. A single strand RNAi agent should be sufficiently long that it can enter the RISC and participate in RISC mediated cleavage of a target mRNA. A single strand RNAi agent is at least 14 and more preferably at least 15 20 25 29 35 40 or 50 nucleotides in length. It is preferably less than 200 100 or 60 nucleotides in length.

Hairpin RNAi modulating agents may have a duplex region equal to or at least 17 18 19 29 21 22 23 24 or 25 nucleotide pairs. The duplex region may preferably be equal to or less than 200 100 or 50 in length. Certain ranges for the duplex region are 15 30 17 to 23 19 to 23 and 19 to 21 nucleotides pairs in length. The hairpin may have a single strand overhang or terminal unpaired region preferably the 3 and preferably of the antisense side of the hairpin. In certain embodiments overhangs are 2 3 nucleotides in length.

Certain modulating agents utilized according to the methods provided herein may comprise RNAi oligonucleotides such as chimeric oligonucleotides or chimeras which contain two or more chemically distinct regions each made up of at least one monomer unit i.e. a nucleotide in the case of an oligonucleotide compound. These oligonucleotides typically contain at least one region wherein the oligonucleotide is modified so as to confer upon the oligonucleotide increased resistance to nuclease degradation increased cellular uptake and or increased binding affinity for the target nucleic acid. Consequently comparable results can often be obtained with shorter oligonucleotides when chimeric oligonucleotides are used compared to phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides. Chimeric oligonucleotides may be formed as composite structures of two or more oligonucleotides modified oligonucleotides oligonucleotides and or oligonucleotide mimetics as described above. Such oligonucleotides have also been referred to in the art as hybrids or gapmers. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of such hybrid structures include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 013 830 5 149 797 5 220 007 5 256 775 5 366 878 5 403 711 5 491 133 5 565 350 5 623 065 5 652 355 5 652 356 5 700 922 and 5 955 589 each of which is herein incorporated by reference. In certain embodiments the chimeric oligonucleotide is RNA DNA DNA RNA RNA DNA RNA DNA RNA DNA or RNA DNA RNA DNA wherein the oligonucleotide is between 5 and 60 nucleotides in length.

In one aspect of the invention modulating agents such as RNAi agents relate to an oligonucleotide comprising at least one ligand tethered to an altered or non natural nucleobase. A large number of compounds can function as the altered base. The structure of the altered base is important to the extent that the altered base should not substantially prevent binding of the oligonucleotide to its target e.g. mRNA. In certain embodiments the altered base is difluorotolyl nitropyrrolyl nitroimidazolyl nitroindolyl napthalenyl anthrancenyl pyridinyl quinolinyl pyrenyl or the divalent radical of any one of the non natural nucleobases described herein. In certain embodiments the non natural nucleobase is difluorotolyl nitropyrrolyl or nitroimidazolyl. In certain embodiments the non natural nucleobase is difluorotolyl. A wide variety of ligands are known in the art and are amenable to the present invention. For example the ligand can be a steroid bile acid lipid folic acid pyridoxal B12 riboflavin biotin aromatic compound polycyclic compound crown ether intercalator cleaver molecule protein binding agent or carbohydrate. In certain embodiments the ligand is a steroid or aromatic compound. In certain instances the ligand is cholesteryl.

In other embodiments the RNAi agent is an oligonucleotide tethered to a ligand for the purposes of improving cellular targeting and uptake. For example an RNAi agent may be tethered to an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof. As an additional example an RNAi agent may be tethered to a specific ligand binding molecule such as a polypeptide or polypeptide fragment that specifically binds a particular cell surface receptor.

In other embodiments the modulating agent comprises a non natural nucleobase. In certain embodiments the non natural nucleobase is difluorotolyl nitroimidazolyl nitroindolyl or nitropyrrolyl. In certain embodiments the modulating agents provided herein relate to a double stranded oligonucleotide sequence wherein only one of the two strands contains a non natural nucleobase. In certain embodiments the modulating agents as used herein relate to a double stranded oligonucleotide sequence wherein both of the strands independently comprise at least one non natural nucleobase.

In certain instances the ribose sugar moiety that naturally occurs in nucleosides is replaced with a hexose sugar. In certain aspects the hexose sugar is an allose altrose glucose mannose gulose idose galactose talose or a derivative thereof. In a preferred embodiment the hexose is a D hexose. In certain instances the ribose sugar moiety that naturally occurs in nucleosides is replaced with a polycyclic heteroalkyl ring or cyclohexenyl group. In certain instances the polycyclic heteroalkyl group is a bicyclic ring containing one oxygen atom in the ring. In certain instances the polycyclic heteroalkyl group is a bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane a bicyclo 3.2.1 octane or a bicyclo 3.3.1 nonane. In certain embodiments the backbone of the oligonucleotide has been modified to improve the therapeutic or diagnostic properties of the oligonucleotide compound. In certain embodiments at least one of the bases or at least one of the sugars of the oligonucleotide has been modified to improve the therapeutic or diagnostic properties of the oligonucleotide compound. In instances when the oligonucleotide is double stranded the two strands are complementary partially complementary or chimeric oligonucleotides.

Examples of modified RNAi agents envisioned for use in the methods of the present invention include oligonucleotides containing modified backbones or non natural internucleoside linkages. As defined here oligonucleotides having modified backbones or internucleoside linkages include those that retain a phosphorus atom in the backbone and those that do not have a phosphorus atom in the backbone. Modified oligonucleotides that do not have a phosphorus atom in their intersugar backbone can also be considered to be oligonucleotides. Specific oligonucleotide chemical modifications are described below. It is not necessary for all positions in a given compound to be uniformly modified and in fact more than one of the following modifications may be incorporated in a single oligonucleotide compound or even in a single nucleotide thereof.

Examples of modified internucleoside linkages or backbones include for example phosphorothioates chiral phosphorothioates phosphorodithioates phosphotriesters aminoalkylphosphotriesters methyl and other alkyl phosphonates including 3 alkylene phosphonates and chiral phosphonates phosphinates phosphoramidates including 3 amino phosphoramidate and aminoalkylphosphoramidates thionophosphoramidates thionoalkylphosphonates thionoalklyphosphotriesters and boranophosphates having normal 3 5 linkages 2 5 linked analogs of these and those having inverted polarity wherein the adjacent pairs of nucleoside units are linked 3 5 to 5 3 or 2 5 to 5 2 . Various salts mixed salts and free acid forms are also included.

Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of the above phosphorus atom containing linkages include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 687 808 4 469 863 4 476 301 5 023 243 5 177 196 5 188 897 5 264 423 5 276 019 5 278 302 5 286 717 5 321 131 5 399 676 5 405 939 5 453 496 5 455 233 5 466 677 5 476 925 5 519 126 5 536 821 5 541 306 5 550 111 5 563 253 5 571 799 5 587 361 5 625 050 and 5 697 248 each of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Examples of modified internucleoside linkages or backbones that do not include a phosphorus atom therein i.e. oligonucleotides have backbones that are formed by short chain alkyl or cycloalkyl intersugar linkages mixed heteroatom and alkyl or cycloalkyl intersugar linkages or one or more short chain heteroatomic or heterocyclic intersugar linkages. These include those having morpholino linkages formed in part from the sugar portion of a nucleoside siloxane backbones sulfide sulfoxide and sulfone backbones formacetyl and thioformacetyl backbones methylene formacetyl and thioformacetyl backbones alkene containing backbones sulfamate backbones methyleneimino and methylenehydrazino backbones sulfonate and sulfonamide backbones amide backbones and others having mixed N O S and CHcomponent parts.

Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of the above oligonucleotides include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 034 506 5 166 315 5 185 444 5 214 134 5 216 141 5 235 033 5 264 562 5 264 564 5 405 938 5 434 257 5 466 677 5 470 967 5 489 677 5 541 307 5 561 225 5 596 086 5 602 240 5 610 289 5 602 240 5 608 046 5 610 289 5 618 704 5 623 070 5 663 312 5 633 360 5 677 437 and 5 677 439 each of which is herein incorporated by reference.

In other examples of oligonucleotide mimetics both the sugar and the internucleoside linkage i.e. the backbone of the nucleoside units may be replaced with novel groups. The nucleobase units are maintained for hybridization with an appropriate nucleic acid target compound. One such oligonucleotide an oligonucleotide mimetic that has been shown to have excellent hybridization properties is referred to as a peptide nucleic acid PNA . In PNA compounds the sugar backbone of an oligonucleotide is replaced with an amide containing backbone in particular an aminoethylglycine backbone. The nucleobases are retained and are bound directly or indirectly to atoms of the amide portion of the backbone. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of PNA compounds include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 539 082 5 714 331 and 5 719 262 each of which is herein incorporated by reference. Further teaching of PNA compounds can be found in Nielsen et al. Science 1991 254 1497.

The present invention further encompasses oligonucleotides employing ribozymes. Synthetic RNA molecules and derivatives thereof that catalyze highly specific endoribonuclease activities are known as ribozymes. See generally U.S. Pat. No. 5 543 508 to Haseloff et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 545 729 to Goodchild et al. . The cleavage reactions are catalyzed by the RNA molecules themselves. In naturally occurring RNA molecules the sites of self catalyzed cleavage are located within highly conserved regions of RNA secondary structure Buzayan et al. 83 8859 62 1986 Forster et al. 50 9 16 1987 . Naturally occurring autocatalytic RNA molecules have been modified to generate ribozymes which can be targeted to a particular cellular or pathogenic RNA molecule with a high degree of specificity. Thus ribozymes serve the same general purpose as antisense oligonucleotides i.e. modulation of expression of a specific gene and like oligonucleotides are nucleic acids possessing significant portions of single strandedness.

In certain instances the RNAi agents for use with the methods provided herein may be modified by non ligand group. A number of non ligand molecules have been conjugated to oligonucleotides in order to enhance the activity cellular distribution cellular targeting or cellular uptake of the oligonucleotide and procedures for performing such conjugations are available in the scientific literature. Such non ligand moieties have included lipid moieties such as cholesterol Letsinger et al. 86 6553 56 1989 cholic acid Manoharan et al. 4 1053 1994 a thioether e.g. hexyl 5 tritylthiol Manoharan et al. Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 660 306 1992 Manoharan et al. 3 2765 1993 a thiocholesterol Oberhauser et al. 20 533 1992 an aliphatic chain e.g. dodecandiol or undecyl residues Saison Behmoaras et al. 10 111 1991 Kabanov et al. 259 327 1990 Svinarchuk et al. 75 49 1993 a phospholipid e.g. di hexadecyl rac glycerol or triethylammonium 1 2 di O hexadecyl rac glycero 3 H phosphonate Manoharan et al. 36 3651 1995 Shea et al. 18 3777 1990 a polyamine or a polyethylene glycol chain Manoharan et al. 14 969 1995 or adamantane acetic acid Manoharan et al. 36 3651 1995 a palmityl moiety Mishra et al. 1264 229 1995 or an octadecylamine or hexylamino carbonyl oxycholesterol moiety Crooke et al. 277 923 1996 . Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of such oligonucleotide conjugates have been listed above. Typical conjugation protocols involve the synthesis of oligonucleotides bearing an aminolinker at one or more positions of the sequence. The amino group is then reacted with the molecule being conjugated using appropriate coupling or activating reagents. The conjugation reaction may be performed either with the oligonucleotide still bound to the solid support or following cleavage of the oligonucleotide in solution phase. Purification of the oligonucleotide conjugate by HPLC typically affords the pure conjugate.

Additional examples of modulating agents such as RNAi oligonucleotides may be found in U.S. Application Publication Nos. 2007 0275465 2007 0054279 2006 0287260 2006 0035254 2006 0008822 which are incorporated by reference.

The antisense compounds detailed above are useful in inhibiting replication of single stranded negative sense segmented RNA viruses of the Orthomyxoviridae family. In one embodiment such inhibition is effective in treating infection of a host animal by these viruses. Accordingly the method comprises in one embodiment contacting a cell infected with the virus with a antisense agent effective to inhibit the replication of the specific virus. In this embodiment the antisense agent is administered to a mammalian subject e.g. human or domestic animal infected with a given virus in a suitable pharmaceutical carrier. It is contemplated that the antisense oligonucleotide arrests the growth of the RNA virus in the host. The RNA virus may be decreased in number or eliminated with little or no detrimental effect on the normal growth or development of the host.

In the present invention as described in the Examples Phosphorodiamidate Morpholino Oligomers PMOs designed to hybridize to the M1 M2 gene segment of influenza A virus i.e. segment 7 were evaluated for their ability to inhibit influenza virus production in two animal models. The PMOs were either conjugated to a short arginine rich peptide to facilitate entry into cells or made as PMOplus compounds containing cationic linkages. The compounds targeted the AUG translation start site of the M1 matrix protein M1 and the ion channel protein M2 both of which are expressed from the same AUG start codon using alternative splice forms of the M1 M2 mRNA.

The M1 M2 AUG targeted antisense compounds of the invention led to the inhibition of viral titer in a mouse model of H3N2 as described in Example 1. The M1 M2 AUG targeted compounds of the invention also demonstrated reduced clinical signs of flu infection and reduced viral titers in nasal washes in the ferret model of 2009H1N1 S OIV pandemic swine flu as described in Example 2. Accordingly the antisense oligonucleotides and RNAi agents exemplified herein may be used in the treatment of viral infections mainly those attributable to single stranded negative sense segmented RNA viruses of the Orthomyxoviridae family.

Embodiments of the present invention also include combination therapies and related compositions. For instance the antiviral i.e. virally targeted antisense oligonucleotides and RNAi agents provided herein may be used in combination with host molecule targeted antisense oligonucleotides or RNAi agents. In this regard antisense or RNAi targeting of a host immune response gene and or its receptor can be used to improve the immune response and thereby prevent or reduce subsequent infections whether viral or bacterial e.g. secondary bacterial infections . As one example it has been shown that CD200 R mice do not develop sepsis following influenza infection. CD200 is a negative regulator of innate immune responses resulting in down regulating the innate immune response in general. Hence certain methods of treatment may include the administration of antisense and or RNAi agents targeted against a host RNA molecule encoding CD200 and or the CD200 receptor see e.g. Hatherly et al. 34 1688 94 2004 in combination with the administration concurrently or separately of any one or more of the influenza targeted antisense agents described herein. Also included are compositions that comprise an antisense or RNAi agent targeted against CD200 and or the CD200 receptor e.g. targeting its AUG start codon translation initiation region or a splice acceptor or splice donor site in combination with an antisense or RNAi agent targeted against influenza virus as described herein. These methods and compositions can be used to treat stand alone influenza virus infections and or secondary bacterial infections e.g. Streptococcal pneumonia associated with influenza virus infections.

Embodiments of the present invention also include combination therapies for the treatment of viral infections e.g. influenza infections accompanied by secondary bacterial infections. The majority of deaths in the 1918 1919 influenza pandemic likely resulted from secondary bacterial pneumonia caused by common upper respiratory tract bacteria such as and recent evidence from the H1N1 pandemic of 2009 indicates secondary bacterial infections remain an important cause of death see e.g. Louie et al. 50 e59 62 2010 Jain et al. 361 1935 44 2009 Jamieson et al. 7 103 14 2010 . The standard of care for Streptococcal pneumonia includes antibiotics. Primary antibiotics include bactericidal beta lactam agents such as penicillin and amoxicillin second line agents include cephalosporins and third line agents include chloramphenicol or clindamycin. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention include methods and compositions related to the administration concurrently or separately of one or more bacteristatic or bactericidal antibiotics e.g. penicillin amoxicillin cephalosporins chloramphenicol clindamycin in combination with one or more influenza targeted antisense or RNAi agents provided herein mainly to treat or manage secondary bacterial infections associated with influenza virus infection.

As another example the antisense oligonucleotides and RNAi agents of the present invention may be administered concurrently or separately in combination with other influenza virus targeted therapies such as oseltamivir phosphate TAMIFLU . In certain aspects the combination of one or more antisense oligonucleotides e.g. AVI 7100 and oseltamivir can achieve synergistic effects in the reduction of influenza viral titer and or other symptoms of influenza virus infection e.g. alveolitis infiltrating immune cells relative to the use of oseltamivir alone or antiviral antisense oligonucleotides alone. Also included are compositions that comprise oseltamivir in combination with an antiviral antisense oligonucleotide or RNAi agent targeted against influenza virus as described herein. In specific embodiments these compositions and methods can be used in the treatment of otherwise oseltamivir resistant influenza virus infections.

The specific virus causing the infection can be determined by methods known in the art e.g. serological or cultural methods.

Serological identification employs a viral sample or culture isolated from a biological specimen e.g. saliva stool urine cerebrospinal fluid blood etc. of the subject. Immunoassay for the detection of virus is generally carried out by methods routinely employed by those of skill in the art e.g. ELISA or Western blot. In addition monoclonal antibodies specific to particular viral strains or species are often commercially available.

Culture methods may be used to isolate and identify particular types of virus by employing techniques including but not limited to comparing characteristics such as rates of growth and morphology under various culture conditions.

Another method for identifying the viral infective agent in an infected subject employs isolating RNA from a biological specimen followed by nucleic acid amplification using specific PCR primers that target suspected viral agents e.g. seasonal H1N1 influenza pandemic H1N1 S OIV H5N1 avian influenza or H3N2 swine influenza.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides formulations or compositions suitable for the therapeutic delivery of antisense oligomers as described herein. Hence in certain embodiments the present invention provides pharmaceutically acceptable compositions that comprise a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the oligomers described herein formulated together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers additives and or diluents. While it is possible for an oligomer of the present invention to be administered alone it is preferable to administer the compound as a pharmaceutical formulation composition .

Methods for the delivery of nucleic acid molecules are described for example in Akhtar et al. 19922 139 and Delivery Strategies for Antisense Oligonucleotide Therapeutics ed. Akhtar Sullivan et al. PCT WO 94 02595. These and other protocols can be utilized for the delivery of virtually any nucleic acid molecule including the isolated oligomers of the present invention.

As detailed below the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be specially formulated for administration in solid or liquid form including those adapted for the following 1 oral administration for example drenches aqueous or non aqueous solutions or suspensions tablets e.g. those targeted for buccal sublingual and systemic absorption boluses powders granules pastes for application to the tongue 2 parenteral administration for example by subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous or epidural injection as for example a sterile solution or suspension or sustained release formulation 3 topical application for example as a cream ointment or a controlled release patch or spray applied to the skin 4 intravaginally or intrarectally for example as a pessary cream or foam 5 sublingually 6 ocularly 7 transdermally or 8 nasally.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient manufacturing aid e.g. lubricant talc magnesium calcium or zinc stearate or steric acid or solvent encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting the subject compound from one organ or portion of the body to another organ or portion of the body. Each carrier must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the patient.

Some examples of materials that can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include without limitation 1 sugars such as lactose glucose and sucrose 2 starches such as corn starch and potato starch 3 cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate 4 powdered tragacanth 5 malt 6 gelatin 7 talc 8 excipients such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes 9 oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil 10 glycols such as propylene glycol 11 polyols such as glycerin sorbitol mannitol and polyethylene glycol 12 esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate 13 agar 14 buffering agents such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide 15 alginic acid 16 pyrogen free water 17 isotonic saline 18 Ringer s solution 19 ethyl alcohol 20 pH buffered solutions 21 polyesters polycarbonates and or polyanhydrides and 22 other non toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations.

Additional non limiting examples of agents suitable for formulation with the antisense oligomers of the instant invention include PEG conjugated nucleic acids phospholipid conjugated nucleic acids nucleic acids containing lipophilic moieties phosphorothioates P glycoprotein inhibitors such as Pluronic P85 which can enhance entry of drugs into various tissues biodegradable polymers such as poly DL lactide coglycolide microspheres for sustained release delivery after implantation Emerich D F et al. 8 47 58 1999 Alkermes Inc. Cambridge Mass. and loaded nanoparticles such as those made of polybutylcyanoacrylate which can deliver drugs across the blood brain barrier and can alter neuronal uptake mechanisms 23 941 949 1999 .

The invention also features the use of the composition comprising surface modified liposomes containing poly ethylene glycol lipids PEG modified branched and unbranched or combinations thereof or long circulating liposomes or stealth liposomes . Oligomers of the invention can also comprise covalently attached PEG molecules of various molecular weights. These formulations offer a method for increasing the accumulation of drugs in target tissues. This class of drug carriers resists opsonization and elimination by the mononuclear phagocytic system MPS or RES thereby enabling longer blood circulation times and enhanced tissue exposure for the encapsulated drug Lasic et al. 1995 95 2601 2627 Ishiwata et al. 1995 43 1005 1011 . Such liposomes have been shown to accumulate selectively in tumors presumably by extravasation and capture in the neovascularized target tissues Lasic et al. 267 1275 1276 1995 Oku et al. 1238 86 90 1995 . The long circulating liposomes enhance the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of DNA and RNA particularly compared to conventional cationic liposomes which are known to accumulate in tissues of the MPS Liu et al. 42 24864 24870 1995 Choi et al. International PCT Publication No. WO 96 10391 Ansell et al. International PCT Publication No. WO 96 10390 Holland et al. International PCT Publication No. WO 96 10392 . Long circulating liposomes are also likely to protect drugs from nuclease degradation to a greater extent compared to cationic liposomes based on their ability to avoid accumulation in metabolically aggressive MPS tissues such as the liver and spleen.

In a further embodiment the present invention includes oligomer compositions prepared for delivery as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 692 911 7 163 695 and 7 070 807. In this regard in one embodiment the present invention provides an oligomer of the present invention in a composition comprising copolymers of lysine and histidine HK as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 163 695 7 070 807 and 6 692 911 either alone or in combination with PEG e.g. branched or unbranched PEG or a mixture of both in combination with PEG and a targeting moiety or any of the foregoing in combination with a crosslinking agent. In certain embodiments the present invention provides antisense oligomers in compositions comprising gluconic acid modified polyhistidine or gluconylated polyhistidine transferrin polylysine. One skilled in the art will also recognize that amino acids with properties similar to His and Lys may be substituted within the composition.

Certain embodiments of the oligomers described herein may contain a basic functional group such as amino or alkylamino and are thus capable of forming pharmaceutically acceptable salts with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts in this respect refers to the relatively non toxic inorganic and organic acid addition salts of compounds of the present invention. These salts can be prepared in situ in the administration vehicle or the dosage form manufacturing process or by separately reacting a purified compound of the invention in its free base form with a suitable organic or inorganic acid and isolating the salt thus formed during subsequent purification. Representative salts include the hydrobromide hydrochloride sulfate bisulfate phosphate nitrate acetate valerate oleate palmitate stearate laurate benzoate lactate phosphate tosylate citrate maleate fumarate succinate tartrate napthylate mesylate glucoheptonate lactobionate and laurylsulphonate salts and the like. See e.g. Berge et al. 66 1 19 1977 .

The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the subject oligomers include the conventional nontoxic salts or quaternary ammonium salts of the compounds e.g. from non toxic organic or inorganic acids. For example such conventional nontoxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloride hydrobromic sulfuric sulfamic phosphoric nitric and the like and the salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic propionic succinic glycolic stearic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic palmitic maleic hydroxymaleic phenylacetic glutamic benzoic salicyclic sulfanilic 2 acetoxybenzoic fumaric toluenesulfonic methanesulfonic ethane disulfonic oxalic isothionic and the like.

In certain embodiments the oligomers of the present invention may contain one or more acidic functional groups and thus are capable of forming pharmaceutically acceptable salts with pharmaceutically acceptable bases. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts in these instances refers to the relatively non toxic inorganic and organic base addition salts of compounds of the present invention. These salts can likewise be prepared in situ in the administration vehicle or the dosage form manufacturing process or by separately reacting the purified compound in its free acid form with a suitable base such as the hydroxide carbonate or bicarbonate of a pharmaceutically acceptable metal cation with ammonia or with a pharmaceutically acceptable organic primary secondary or tertiary amine. Representative alkali or alkaline earth salts include the lithium sodium potassium calcium magnesium and aluminum salts and the like. Representative organic amines useful for the formation of base addition salts include ethylamine diethylamine ethylenediamine ethanolamine diethanolamine piperazine and the like. See e.g. Berge et al. supra .

Wetting agents emulsifiers and lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate as well as coloring agents release agents coating agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the compositions.

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants include 1 water soluble antioxidants such as ascorbic acid cysteine hydrochloride sodium bisulfate sodium metabisulfite sodium sulfite and the like 2 oil soluble antioxidants such as ascorbyl palmitate butylated hydroxyanisole BHA butylated hydroxytoluene BHT lecithin propyl gallate alpha tocopherol and the like and 3 metal chelating agents such as citric acid ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid EDTA sorbitol tartaric acid phosphoric acid and the like.

Formulations of the present invention include those suitable for oral nasal topical including buccal and sublingual rectal vaginal and or parenteral administration. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any methods well known in the art of pharmacy. The amount of active ingredient that can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host being treated the particular mode of administration. The amount of active ingredient which can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will generally be that amount of the compound which produces a therapeutic effect. Generally out of one hundred percent this amount will range from about 0.1 percent to about ninety nine percent of active ingredient preferably from about 5 percent to about 70 percent most preferably from about 10 percent to about 30 percent.

In certain embodiments a formulation of the present invention comprises an excipient selected from cyclodextrins celluloses liposomes micelle forming agents e.g. bile acids and polymeric carriers e.g. polyesters and polyanhydrides and an oligomer of the present invention. In certain embodiments an aforementioned formulation renders orally bioavailable an oligomer of the present invention.

Methods of preparing these formulations or compositions include the step of bringing into association an oligomer of the present invention with the carrier and optionally one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association a compound of the present invention with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of the invention suitable for oral administration may be in the form of capsules cachets pills tablets lozenges using a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth powders granules or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water or water in oil liquid emulsion or as an elixir or syrup or as pastilles using an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and or as mouth washes and the like each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of the present invention as an active ingredient. An oligomer of the present invention may also be administered as a bolus electuary or paste.

In solid dosage forms of the invention for oral administration capsules tablets pills dragees powders granules trouches and the like the active ingredient may be mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate and or any of the following 1 fillers or extenders such as starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and or silicic acid 2 binders such as for example carboxymethylcellulose alginates gelatin polyvinyl pyrrolidone sucrose and or acacia 3 humectants such as glycerol 4 disintegrating agents such as agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain silicates and sodium carbonate 5 solution retarding agents such as paraffin 6 absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds and surfactants such as poloxamer and sodium lauryl sulfate 7 wetting agents such as for example cetyl alcohol glycerol monostearate and non ionic surfactants 8 absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay 9 lubricants such as talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate zinc stearate sodium stearate stearic acid and mixtures thereof 10 coloring agents and 11 controlled release agents such as crospovidone or ethyl cellulose. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard shelled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugars as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.

A tablet may be made by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared using binder e.g. gelatin or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose lubricant inert diluent preservative disintegrant for example sodium starch glycolate or cross linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent.

The tablets and other solid dosage forms of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention such as dragees capsules pills and granules may optionally be scored or prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may also be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile other polymer matrices liposomes and or microspheres. They may be formulated for rapid release e.g. freeze dried. They may be sterilized by for example filtration through a bacteria retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved in sterile water or some other sterile injectable medium immediately before use. These compositions may also optionally contain opacifying agents and may be of a composition that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain portion of the gastrointestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include polymeric substances and waxes. The active ingredient can also be in micro encapsulated form if appropriate with one or more of the above described excipients.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration of the compounds of the invention include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions microemulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active ingredient the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof.

Besides inert diluents the oral compositions can also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring coloring perfuming and preservative agents.

Suspensions in addition to the active compounds may contain suspending agents as for example ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters microcrystalline cellulose aluminum metahydroxide bentonite agar agar and tragacanth and mixtures thereof.

Formulations for rectal or vaginal administration may be presented as a suppository which may be prepared by mixing one or more compounds of the invention with one or more suitable nonirritating excipients or carriers comprising for example cocoa butter polyethylene glycol a suppository wax or a salicylate and which is solid at room temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound.

Formulations or dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration of an oligomer as provided herein include powders sprays ointments pastes creams lotions gels solutions patches and inhalants. The active oligomers may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and with any preservatives buffers or propellants which may be required. The ointments pastes creams and gels may contain in addition to an active compound of this invention excipients such as animal and vegetable fats oils waxes paraffins starch tragacanth cellulose derivatives polyethylene glycols silicones bentonites silicic acid talc and zinc oxide or mixtures thereof.

Powders and sprays can contain in addition to an oligomer of the present invention excipients such as lactose talc silicic acid aluminum hydroxide calcium silicates and polyamide powder or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons such as butane and propane.

Transdermal patches have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of an oligomer of the present invention to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispersing the oligomer in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux of the agent across the skin. The rate of such flux can be controlled by either providing a rate controlling membrane or dispersing the agent in a polymer matrix or gel among other methods known in the art.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral administration may comprise one or more oligomers of the invention in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable sterile isotonic aqueous or nonaqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions or sterile powders which may be reconstituted into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use which may contain sugars alcohols antioxidants buffers bacteriostats solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient or suspending or thickening agents. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers which may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention include water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of coating materials such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants.

These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preservatives wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of microorganisms upon the subject oligomers may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example paraben chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like into the compositions. In addition prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

In some cases in order to prolong the effect of a drug it is desirable to slow the absorption of the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material having poor water solubility among other methods known in the art. The rate of absorption of the drug then depends upon its rate of dissolution which in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered drug form is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the drug in an oil vehicle.

Injectable depot forms may be made by forming microencapsule matrices of the subject oligomers in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide. Depending on the ratio of oligomer to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of oligomer release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depot injectable formulations may also prepared by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions that are compatible with body tissues.

When the oligomers of the present invention are administered as pharmaceuticals to humans and animals they can be given per se or as a pharmaceutical composition containing for example 0.1 to 99 more preferably 10 to 30 of active ingredient in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

As noted above the formulations or preparations of the present invention may be given orally parenterally topically or rectally. They are typically given in forms suitable for each administration route. For example they are administered in tablets or capsule form by injection inhalation eye lotion ointment suppository etc. administration by injection infusion or inhalation topical by lotion or ointment and rectal by suppositories.

The phrases parenteral administration and administered parenterally as used herein means modes of administration other than enteral and topical administration usually by injection and includes without limitation intravenous intramuscular intraarterial intrathecal intracapsular intraorbital intracardiac intradermal intraperitoneal transtracheal subcutaneous subcuticular intraarticulare subcapsular subarachnoid intraspinal and intrasternal injection and infusion.

The phrases systemic administration administered systemically peripheral administration and administered peripherally as used herein mean the administration of a compound drug or other material other than directly into the central nervous system such that it enters the patient s system and thus is subject to metabolism and other like processes for example subcutaneous administration.

Regardless of the route of administration selected the oligomers of the present invention which may be used in a suitable hydrated form and or the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be formulated into pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms by conventional methods known to those of skill in the art. Actual dosage levels of the active ingredients in the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may be varied so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient which is effective to achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular patient composition and mode of administration without being unacceptably toxic to the patient.

The selected dosage level will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the particular oligomer of the present invention employed or the ester salt or amide thereof the route of administration the time of administration the rate of excretion or metabolism of the particular oligomer being employed the rate and extent of absorption the duration of the treatment other drugs compounds and or materials used in combination with the particular oligomer employed the age sex weight condition general health and prior medical history of the patient being treated and like factors well known in the medical arts.

A physician or veterinarian having ordinary skill in the art can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition required. For example the physician or veterinarian could start doses of the compounds of the invention employed in the pharmaceutical composition at levels lower than that required in order to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved. In general a suitable daily dose of a compound of the invention will be that amount of the compound which is the lowest dose effective to produce a therapeutic effect. Such an effective dose will generally depend upon the factors described above. Generally oral intravenous intracerebroventricular and subcutaneous doses of the compounds of this invention for a patient when used for the indicated effects will range from about 0.0001 to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day.

If desired the effective daily dose of the active compound may be administered as two three four five six or more sub doses administered separately at appropriate intervals throughout the day optionally in unit dosage forms. In certain situations dosing is one administration per day. In certain embodiments dosing is one or more administration per every 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 days or every 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 weeks or every 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 months as needed to reduce influenza virus replication.

Nucleic acid molecules can be administered to cells by a variety of methods known to those familiar to the art including but not restricted to encapsulation in liposomes by iontophoresis or by incorporation into other vehicles such as hydrogels cyclodextrins biodegradable nanocapsules and bioadhesive microspheres as described herein and known in the art. In certain embodiments microemulsification technology may be utilized to improve bioavailability of lipophilic water insoluble pharmaceutical agents. Examples include Trimetrine Dordunoo S. K. et al. 17 1685 1713 1991 and REV 5901 Sheen P. C. et al. 80 712 714 1991 . Among other benefits microemulsification provides enhanced bioavailability by preferentially directing absorption to the lymphatic system instead of the circulatory system which thereby bypasses the liver and prevents destruction of the compounds in the hepatobiliary circulation.

In one aspect of invention the formulations contain micelles formed from an oligomer as provided herein and at least one amphiphilic carrier in which the micelles have an average diameter of less than about 100 nm. More preferred embodiments provide micelles having an average diameter less than about 50 nm and even more preferred embodiments provide micelles having an average diameter less than about 30 nm or even less than about 20 nm.

While all suitable amphiphilic carriers are contemplated the presently preferred carriers are generally those that have Generally Recognized as Safe GRAS status and that can both solubilize the compound of the present invention and microemulsify it at a later stage when the solution comes into a contact with a complex water phase such as one found in human gastro intestinal tract . Usually amphiphilic ingredients that satisfy these requirements have HLB hydrophilic to lipophilic balance values of 2 20 and their structures contain straight chain aliphatic radicals in the range of C 6 to C 20. Examples are polyethylene glycolized fatty glycerides and polyethylene glycols.

Examples of amphiphilic carriers include saturated and monounsaturated polyethyleneglycolyzed fatty acid glycerides such as those obtained from fully or partially hydrogenated various vegetable oils. Such oils may advantageously consist of tri di and mono fatty acid glycerides and di and mono polyethyleneglycol esters of the corresponding fatty acids with a particularly preferred fatty acid composition including capric acid 4 10 capric acid 3 9 lauric acid 40 50 myristic acid 14 24 palmitic acid 4 14 and stearic acid 5 15 . Another useful class of amphiphilic carriers includes partially esterified sorbitan and or sorbitol with saturated or mono unsaturated fatty acids SPAN series or corresponding ethoxylated analogs TWEEN series .

Commercially available amphiphilic carriers may be particularly useful including Gelucire series Labrafil Labrasol or Lauroglycol all manufactured and distributed by Gattefosse Corporation Saint Priest France PEG mono oleate PEG di oleate PEG mono laurate and di laurate Lecithin Polysorbate 80 etc produced and distributed by a number of companies in USA and worldwide .

In certain embodiments the delivery may occur by use of liposomes nanocapsules microparticles microspheres lipid particles vesicles and the like for the introduction of the compositions of the present invention into suitable host cells. In particular the compositions of the present invention may be formulated for delivery either encapsulated in a lipid particle a liposome a vesicle a nanosphere a nanoparticle or the like. The formulation and use of such delivery vehicles can be carried out using known and conventional techniques.

Hydrophilic polymers suitable for use in the present invention are those which are readily water soluble can be covalently attached to a vesicle forming lipid and which are tolerated in vivo without toxic effects i.e. are biocompatible . Suitable polymers include polyethylene glycol PEG polylactic also termed polylactide polyglycolic acid also termed polyglycolide a polylactic polyglycolic acid copolymer and polyvinyl alcohol. In certain embodiments polymers have a molecular weight of from about 100 or 120 daltons up to about 5 000 or 10 000 daltons or from about 300 daltons to about 5 000 daltons. In other embodiments the polymer is polyethyleneglycol having a molecular weight of from about 100 to about 5 000 daltons or having a molecular weight of from about 300 to about 5 000 daltons. In certain embodiments the polymer is polyethyleneglycol of 750 daltons PEG 750 . Polymers may also be defined by the number of monomers therein a preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes polymers of at least about three monomers such PEG polymers consisting of three monomers approximately 150 daltons .

Other hydrophilic polymers which may be suitable for use in the present invention include polyvinylpyrrolidone polymethoxazoline polyethyloxazoline polyhydroxypropyl methacrylamide polymethacrylamide polydimethylacrylamide and derivatized celluloses such as hydroxymethylcellulose or hydroxyethylcellulose.

In certain embodiments a formulation of the present invention comprises a biocompatible polymer selected from the group consisting of polyamides polycarbonates polyalkylenes polymers of acrylic and methacrylic esters polyvinyl polymers polyglycolides polysiloxanes polyurethanes and co polymers thereof celluloses polypropylene polyethylenes polystyrene polymers of lactic acid and glycolic acid polyanhydrides poly ortho esters poly butic acid poly valeric acid poly lactide co caprolactone polysaccharides proteins polyhyaluronic acids polycyanoacrylates and blends mixtures or copolymers thereof.

Cyclodextrins are cyclic oligosaccharides consisting of 6 7 or 8 glucose units designated by the Greek letter . or respectively. The glucose units are linked by 1 4 glucosidic bonds. As a consequence of the chair conformation of the sugar units all secondary hydroxyl groups at C 2 C 3 are located on one side of the ring while all the primary hydroxyl groups at C 6 are situated on the other side. As a result the external faces are hydrophilic making the cyclodextrins water soluble. In contrast the cavities of the cyclodextrins are hydrophobic since they are lined by the hydrogen of atoms C 3 and C 5 and by ether like oxygens. These matrices allow complexation with a variety of relatively hydrophobic compounds including for instance steroid compounds such as 17 estradiol. The complexation takes place by Van der Waals interactions and by hydrogen bond formation. For a general review of the chemistry of cyclodextrins see Wenz Agnew 33 803 822 1994.

The physico chemical properties of the cyclodextrin derivatives depend strongly on the kind and the degree of substitution. For example their solubility in water ranges from insoluble e.g. triacetyl beta cyclodextrin to 147 soluble w v G 2 beta cyclodextrin . In addition they are soluble in many organic solvents. The properties of the cyclodextrins enable the control over solubility of various formulation components by increasing or decreasing their solubility.

Numerous cyclodextrins and methods for their preparation have been described. For example Parmeter I et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 453 259 and Gramera et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 459 731 described electroneutral cyclodextrins. Other derivatives include cyclodextrins with cationic properties Parmeter II U.S. Pat. No. 3 453 257 insoluble crosslinked cyclodextrins Solms U.S. Pat. No. 3 420 788 and cyclodextrins with anionic properties Parmeter III U.S. Pat. No. 3 426 011 . Among the cyclodextrin derivatives with anionic properties carboxylic acids phosphorous acids phosphinous acids phosphonic acids phosphoric acids thiophosphonic acids thiosulphinic acids and sulfonic acids have been appended to the parent cyclodextrin see Parmeter III supra . Furthermore sulfoalkyl ether cyclodextrin derivatives have been described by Stella et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 134 127 .

Liposomes consist of at least one lipid bilayer membrane enclosing an aqueous internal compartment. Liposomes may be characterized by membrane type and by size. Small unilamellar vesicles SUVs have a single membrane and typically range between 0.02 and 0.05 m in diameter large unilamellar vesicles LUVS are typically larger than 0.05 m. Oligolamellar large vesicles and multilamellar vesicles have multiple usually concentric membrane layers and are typically larger than 0.1 m. Liposomes with several nonconcentric membranes i.e. several smaller vesicles contained within a larger vesicle are termed multivesicular vesicles.

One aspect of the present invention relates to formulations comprising liposomes containing an oligomer of the present invention where the liposome membrane is formulated to provide a liposome with increased carrying capacity. Alternatively or in addition the compound of the present invention may be contained within or adsorbed onto the liposome bilayer of the liposome. An oligomer of the present invention may be aggregated with a lipid surfactant and carried within the liposome s internal space in these cases the liposome membrane is formulated to resist the disruptive effects of the active agent surfactant aggregate.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the lipid bilayer of a liposome contains lipids derivatized with polyethylene glycol PEG such that the PEG chains extend from the inner surface of the lipid bilayer into the interior space encapsulated by the liposome and extend from the exterior of the lipid bilayer into the surrounding environment.

Active agents contained within liposomes of the present invention are in solubilized form. Aggregates of surfactant and active agent such as emulsions or micelles containing the active agent of interest may be entrapped within the interior space of liposomes according to the present invention. A surfactant acts to disperse and solubilize the active agent and may be selected from any suitable aliphatic cycloaliphatic or aromatic surfactant including but not limited to biocompatible lysophosphatidylcholines LPCs of varying chain lengths for example from about C14 to about C20 . Polymer derivatized lipids such as PEG lipids may also be utilized for micelle formation as they will act to inhibit micelle membrane fusion and as the addition of a polymer to surfactant molecules decreases the CMC of the surfactant and aids in micelle formation. Preferred are surfactants with CMCs in the micromolar range higher CMC surfactants may be utilized to prepare micelles entrapped within liposomes of the present invention.

Liposomes according to the present invention may be prepared by any of a variety of techniques that are known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 235 871 Published PCT applications WO 96 14057 New RRC Liposomes A Practical Approach IRL Press Oxford 1990 pages 33 104 Lasic DD Liposomes from physics to applications Elsevier Science Publishers BV Amsterdam 1993. For example liposomes of the present invention may be prepared by diffusing a lipid derivatized with a hydrophilic polymer into preformed liposomes such as by exposing preformed liposomes to micelles composed of lipid grafted polymers at lipid concentrations corresponding to the final mole percent of derivatized lipid which is desired in the liposome. Liposomes containing a hydrophilic polymer can also be formed by homogenization lipid field hydration or extrusion techniques as are known in the art.

In another exemplary formulation procedure the active agent is first dispersed by sonication in a lysophosphatidylcholine or other low CMC surfactant including polymer grafted lipids that readily solubilizes hydrophobic molecules. The resulting micellar suspension of active agent is then used to rehydrate a dried lipid sample that contains a suitable mole percent of polymer grafted lipid or cholesterol. The lipid and active agent suspension is then formed into liposomes using extrusion techniques as are known in the art and the resulting liposomes separated from the unencapsulated solution by standard column separation.

In one aspect of the present invention the liposomes are prepared to have substantially homogeneous sizes in a selected size range. One effective sizing method involves extruding an aqueous suspension of the liposomes through a series of polycarbonate membranes having a selected uniform pore size the pore size of the membrane will correspond roughly with the largest sizes of liposomes produced by extrusion through that membrane. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 737 323. In certain embodiments reagents such as DharmaFECT and Lipofectamine may be utilized to introduce polynucleotides or proteins into cells.

The release characteristics of a formulation of the present invention depend on the encapsulating material the concentration of encapsulated drug and the presence of release modifiers. For example release can be manipulated to be pH dependent for example using a pH sensitive coating that releases only at a low pH as in the stomach or a higher pH as in the intestine. An enteric coating can be used to prevent release from occurring until after passage through the stomach. Multiple coatings or mixtures of cyanamide encapsulated in different materials can be used to obtain an initial release in the stomach followed by later release in the intestine. Release can also be manipulated by inclusion of salts or pore forming agents which can increase water uptake or release of drug by diffusion from the capsule. Excipients which modify the solubility of the drug can also be used to control the release rate. Agents which enhance degradation of the matrix or release from the matrix can also be incorporated. They can be added to the drug added as a separate phase i.e. as particulates or can be co dissolved in the polymer phase depending on the compound. In most cases the amount should be between 0.1 and thirty percent w w polymer . Types of degradation enhancers include inorganic salts such as ammonium sulfate and ammonium chloride organic acids such as citric acid benzoic acid and ascorbic acid inorganic bases such as sodium carbonate potassium carbonate calcium carbonate zinc carbonate and zinc hydroxide and organic bases such as protamine sulfate spermine choline ethanolamine diethanolamine and triethanolamine and surfactants such as Tween and Pluronic . Pore forming agents which add microstructure to the matrices i.e. water soluble compounds such as inorganic salts and sugars are added as particulates. The range is typically between one and thirty percent w w polymer .

Uptake can also be manipulated by altering residence time of the particles in the gut. This can be achieved for example by coating the particle with or selecting as the encapsulating material a mucosal adhesive polymer. Examples include most polymers with free carboxyl groups such as chitosan celluloses and especially polyacrylates as used herein polyacrylates refers to polymers including acrylate groups and modified acrylate groups such as cyanoacrylates and methacrylates .

An oligomer may be formulated to be contained within or adapted to release by a surgical or medical device or implant. In certain aspects an implant may be coated or otherwise treated with an oligomer. For example hydrogels or other polymers such as biocompatible and or biodegradable polymers may be used to coat an implant with the compositions of the present invention i.e. the composition may be adapted for use with a medical device by using a hydrogel or other polymer . Polymers and copolymers for coating medical devices with an agent are well known in the art. Examples of implants include but are not limited to stents drug eluting stents sutures prosthesis vascular catheters dialysis catheters vascular grafts prosthetic heart valves cardiac pacemakers implantable cardioverter defibrillators IV needles devices for bone setting and formation such as pins screws plates and other devices and artificial tissue matrices for wound healing.

In addition to the methods provided herein the oligomers for use according to the invention may be formulated for administration in any convenient way for use in human or veterinary medicine by analogy with other pharmaceuticals. The antisense oligomers and their corresponding formulations may be administered alone or in combination with other therapeutic strategies in the treatment of influenza virus infection e.g. Oseltamivir which is marketed under the trade name TAMIFLU .

In accordance with the invention routes of antisense oligomer delivery include but are not limited to various systemic routes including oral and parenteral routes e.g. intravenous subcutaneous intraperitoneal and intramuscular as well as inhalation transdermal pulmonary and topical delivery. The appropriate route may be determined by one of skill in the art as appropriate to the condition of the subject under treatment. For example an appropriate route for delivery of an antisense oligomer in the treatment of a viral infection of the skin is topical delivery while delivery of a antisense oligomer for the treatment of a viral respiratory infection e.g. influenza A is by inhalation intranasal or pulmonary delivery. The oligomer may also be delivered directly to the site of viral infection or to the bloodstream.

The antisense oligomer may be administered in any convenient vehicle which is physiologically acceptable. Such a composition may include any of a variety of standard pharmaceutically acceptable carriers employed by those of ordinary skill in the art. Examples include but are not limited to saline phosphate buffered saline PBS water aqueous ethanol emulsions such as oil water emulsions or triglyceride emulsions tablets and capsules. The choice of suitable physiologically acceptable carrier will vary dependent upon the chosen mode of administration.

In some instances as noted above liposomes may be employed to facilitate uptake of the antisense oligonucleotide into cells. See e.g. Williams S. A. 10 12 1980 1989 1996 Lappalainen et al. 23 119 1994 Uhlmann et al. Antisense Oligonucleotides A New Therapeutic Principle Volume 90 No. 4 pages 544 584 1990 Gregoriadis G. Chapter 14 Liposomes Drug Carriers in Biology and Medicine pp. 287 341 Academic Press 1979 . Hydrogels may also be used as vehicles for antisense oligomer administration for example as described in WO 93 01286 or PCT Application No. US1992 005305. Alternatively the oligonucleotides may be administered in microspheres or microparticles. See e.g. Wu G. Y. and Wu C. H. 262 4429 4432 1987 . Alternatively the use of gas filled microbubbles complexed with the antisense oligomers can enhance delivery to target tissues as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 245 747.

Sustained release compositions may also be used. These may include semipermeable polymeric matrices in the form of shaped articles such as films or microcapsules.

In one aspect of the method the subject is a human subject e.g. a patient diagnosed as having a localized or systemic viral infection. The condition of a patient may also dictate prophylactic administration of an antisense oligomer of the invention e.g. in the case of a patient who 1 is immunocompromised 2 is a burn victim 3 has an indwelling catheter or 4 is about to undergo or has recently undergone surgery. In one preferred embodiment the oligomer is a phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer contained in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and is delivered orally. In another preferred embodiment the oligomer is a phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer contained in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and is delivered intravenously i.v. .

The antisense compounds may be administered in an amount and manner effective to result in a peak blood concentration of at least 200 400 nM antisense oligomer. Typically one or more doses of antisense oligomer are administered generally at regular intervals for a period of about one to two weeks. Preferred doses for oral administration are from about 1 100 mg oligomer per 70 kg. In some cases doses of greater than 100 mg oligomer patient may be necessary. For i.v. administration preferred doses are from about 1 mg to 500 mg oligomer per 70 kg. The antisense oligomer may be administered at regular intervals for a short time period e.g. daily for two weeks or less. However in some cases the oligomer is administered intermittently over a longer period of time. Administration may be followed by or concurrent with administration of an antibiotic or other therapeutic treatment. The treatment regimen may be adjusted dose frequency route etc. as indicated based on the results of immunoassays other biochemical tests and physiological examination of the subject under treatment.

An effective in vivo treatment regimen using the antisense oligonucleotides of the invention may vary according to the duration dose frequency and route of administration as well as the condition of the subject under treatment i.e. prophylactic administration versus administration in response to localized or systemic infection . Accordingly such in vivo therapy will often require monitoring by tests appropriate to the particular type of viral infection under treatment and corresponding adjustments in the dose or treatment regimen in order to achieve an optimal therapeutic outcome. Treatment may be monitored e.g. by general indicators of infection such as complete blood count CBC nucleic acid detection methods immunodiagnostic tests viral culture or detection of heteroduplex.

The efficacy of an in vivo administered antisense oligomer of the invention in inhibiting or eliminating the growth of one or more types of RNA virus may be determined from biological samples tissue blood urine etc. taken from a subject prior to during and subsequent to administration of the antisense oligomer. Assays of such samples include 1 monitoring the presence or absence of heteroduplex formation with target and non target sequences using procedures known to those skilled in the art e.g. an electrophoretic gel mobility assay 2 monitoring the amount of viral protein production as determined by standard techniques such as ELISA or Western blotting or 3 measuring the effect on viral titer e.g. by the method of Spearman Karber. See for example Pari G. S. et al. 39 5 1157 1161 1995 Anderson K. P. et al. 40 2004 2011 1996 Cottral G. E. ed in Manual of Standard Methods for Veterinary Microbiology pp. 60 93 1978 .

All publications and patent applications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims. The following examples are provided by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of noncritical parameters that could be changed or modified to yield essentially similar results.

All peptides were custom synthesized by Global Peptide Services Ft. Collins Colo. or at AVI BioPharma Corvallis Oreg. and purified to 90 purity see Example 2 below . PMOs were synthesized at AVI BioPharma in accordance with known methods as described for example in Summerton and Weller 1997 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 185 444 and further described in PCT application No. US08 012 804. Exemplary structures of the PMO are as shown in . 2 OMe oligomers were synthesized by Integrated DNA Technologies Inc. Skokie Ill. LNA oligomers were produced by Biosynthesis Inc. Lewisville Tex.

Some of the PMO oligomers were conjugated at the 3 end with an arginine rich peptide RAhxRRBR AhxB or RAhxR AhxB SEQ ID NOs 124 and 118 respectively to form peptide conjugated PMOs PPMOs to enhance cellular uptake as described U.S. Pat. No. 7 468 418 PCT application No. US08 008 168 and Marshall Oda et al. 2007 Abes Moulton et al. 2008 .

A synthetic pathway that can be used to make morpholino subunits containing a 1 piperazino phosphinylideneoxy linkage is described in PCT application No. US07 011 435 and further experimental detail for a representative synthesis is provided below. Reaction of piperazine and trityl chloride gave trityl piperazine which was isolated as the succinate salt. Reaction with ethyl trifluoroacetate in the presence of a weak base such as diisopropylethylamine or DIEA provided 1 trifluoroacetyl 4 trityl piperazine which was immediately reacted with HCl to provide the salt in good yield. Introduction of the dichlorophosphoryl moiety was performed with phosphorus oxychloride in toluene.

The acid chloride is reacted with morpholino subunits moN which may be prepared as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 185 444 or in Summerton and Weller 1997 cited above and further described in PCT application No. US08 012 804 to provide the activated subunits. Suitable protecting groups are used for the nucleoside bases where necessary for example benzoyl for adenine and cytosine phenylacetyl for guanine and pivaloylmethyl for inosine. The subunits containing the 1 piperazino phosphinylideneoxy linkage can be incorporated into the existing PMO synthesis protocol as described for example in Summerton and Weller 1997 without modification.

A murine model of influenza A virus infection was used to determine the in vivo efficacy of representative antisense oligomers of the infection. Influenza A subtype H2N3 Port Chalmers 1 73 was used to infect Balb c female mice via intranasal administration of approximately 4 10plaque forming units in a 50 microliter volume. The studies used 12 mice per group with six removed on day two for determination of viral titer and six removed on day six for determination of viral titer. Secondary endpoints included prevention of weight loss and survival.

Three test antisense oligomer compounds PB1 AUG 15 M1 M2 AUG and NP v3 SEQ ID NOs 12 13 and 30 33 as listed in Table 1 and below in Table 6 were evaluated as both peptide conjugated PPMO and positive charge linkage chemistry PMOplus . The PPMOs were synthesized using the CP06062 peptide SEQ ID NO 124 conjugated to the 3 terminus of the PMO. Each test agent was evaluated at three dose levels 10 30 and 100 micrograms to establish dose dependent relationships. Dosing was via the intranasal route beginning 4 hours prior to infection on Day 0 and then daily through Day 4 for a total of 5 doses. The primary endpoint of the study was viral titer reduction in the lung measured as plaque forming units per gram of lung tissue.

One observation in support of the present invention was the demonstration of antiviral efficacy of the compounds of the invention in the domestic ferret animal model system using the novel H1N12009 S OIV virus. Advantages of the ferret model include the ability to use natural human isolate of influenza virus as opposed to mouse adapted strains and the development of most clinical signs observed in humans such as fever and nasal discharge Munster de Wit et al. 2009 .

Six ferrets were infected with a Tamiflu resistant H1N1 strain from 2009 obtained from the Centers for Disease Control pandemic swine flu . The route of viral infection was intranasal 4 10plaque forming units on Day 1 and dosing was either by intraperitoneal ip injection for the PMOplus compounds or intranasal in for the PPMO compounds. The Dengue targeted negative control PMOplus 30 mg kg ip dose and PPMO 1.5 mg kg in dose compounds were administered as described above in Example 1. The dosing for PMOplus compounds was 10 and 30 mg kg for the M1 M2 AUGplus SEQ ID NO 13 AVI 7100 and 0.5 and 1.5 mg kg for the M1 M2 AUG PPMO SEQ ID NO 12 conjugated on the 3 end to SEQ ID NO 124 . Dosing was performed four hours prior to infection and on Days 1 3 and 5. Tamiflu Oseltamivir was administered 10 mg kg dose as a positive antiviral control in parallel with the antisense compounds. Saline was also included as a negative control.

In life observations included weight gain sneezing nasal discharge and respiratory distress . The M1 M2 AUG targeted compounds prevented weight loss and reduced sneezing nasal discharge and respiratory distress. Viral titers from nasal washes for Day 1 through Day 5 post infection are shown in as area under the curve AUC tissue culture infectious dose TCID . The M1 M2 AUG PPMO agent showed a 2.3 log reduction relative to saline 99.6 reduction and a 1.1 log reduction greater than Tamiflu 94.4 greater .

To further evaluate the efficacy of AVI 7100 SEQ ID NO 13 a PMOplus targeted to the influenza M1 M2 segment translation start site was tested in ferrets infected with a non adapted oseltamivir resistant H1N1 SOIV pandemic influenza virus. A total of 36 male ferrets were utilized in this study. Male ferrets with matched body weight of about 700 g at study initiation were randomized to one of 5 treatment groups shown in Table 7 below and housed in Hepa filtered cages four per cage to minimize cage to cage transmission of virus. The cages were maintained within the Tulane University Medical Center BSL 2 laboratory.

The ferrets were treated with AVI 7100 1 to 4 hours prior to viral challenge. The route of administration was intraperitoneal for groups 2 3 and 5 and oral for group 1. The dose interval was at 4 hours 24 48 72 96 and 120 hours post viral challenge. The 5 groups were treated as follows Group 1 received oseltamivir at 5 mg kg every 12 hours by the oral route Group 2 received AVI 7100 a PMOplus compound 5 CGG T TA GAA GAC TCA TC T TT 3 at 10 mg kg dose by the i.p. route Group 3 received AVI 7100 a PMOplus compound at 30 mg kg dose by the i.p. route Group 4 received a sterile saline control by the i.p. route Group 5 received AVI 7100 at 10 mg kg once a day by the i.p. route and oseltamivir at 5 mg kg twice a day. The reason for the differences in group sizes between groups 1 2 8 ferrets each and groups 4 5 6 ferrets each was due to the limited availability of influenza A seronegative ferrets at the time of the study initiation.

All of the ferrets involved in this study survived to the end of the study day eight post infection suggesting either that these animals were very healthy or that this particular virus was not very pathogenic in this model. Nonetheless as shown below these results not only show that treatment with AVI 7100 significantly reduces symptoms of influenza virus infection relative to untreated or oseltamivir treated controls but also illustrate the synergistic effects that can be achieved with the combination of AVI 7100 and oseltamivir. A summary of the clinical observations is shown in Table 8 below.

As a further indicator observations of cells that infiltrate into the upper respiratory tract are a measure of the severity of the infection. The summary of macrophage cellularity in nasal wash is included in Table 9 below. In addition untreated and oseltamivir only treated ferrets showed significant congestion in the lung with marked alveolitis inflammation of the lung abundant infiltrating cells including lymphocytes and neutrophils and moderate alveolar wall thickening of the lung. In contrast AVI 7100 treated ferrets with or without oseltamivir showed no congestion in the lung only mild alveolitis and few infiltrating cells.

As shown in Table 10 below peak viremia in nasal wash was observed on day 1. No nasal wash was collected on day 2 4 6 and 7 in order to minimize the untoward influence of collecting the nasal wash on the progression of the viral infection. Significant benefit was observed in the AVI 7100 treated group relative to either saline or oseltamivir. Synergistic effects were also observed with the combination of AVI 7100 10 mg kg and oseltamivir relative to AVI 7100 only 10 mg kg and oseltamivir only treatments. Here the AUC for viral titer in nasal wash for the combination AVI 7100 and oseltamivir shows a greater than 4 log reduction relative to the tamiflu only group and a greater than 3 log reduction relative to the saline group. The combination also shows a much greater reduction in viral titer relative to the equivalent amount of AVI 7100 alone from AUC of 5.515 to AUC of 2.999 suggesting that AVI 7100 may enhance the anti viral effects of oseltamivir. This result is surprising because the virus used in this study is otherwise resistant to oseltamivir.

An aspect of the present invention is the inhibition of influenza A virus replication by antisense targeting of multiple sites within the M1 M2 segment. In addition to inhibition of translation by targeting the common M1 M2 AUG start site splice donor and splice acceptor sites can also be targeted using compounds of the invention. Two PMO that target the splice acceptor site at position 740 were synthesized as peptide conjugated PPMO SA740 and SA746 SEQ ID NOs 26 and 29 respectively and placed into an in vitro tissue culture replication system for H1N1 strain PR8. The P007 cell penetrating peptide SEQ ID NO 118 was conjugated to the 3 terminus of the PMO.

An alveolar murine macrophage cell line ATCC AMJ2 C11 was infected at 0.1 MOI with H1N1 strain PR8 and 1 hour post infection PPMOs were added. Cells were incubated at 35 degrees C. overnight. Viral supernatant was then taken and incubated with VNAR protease to release viral RNA. HA RNA was quantified by quantitative real time PCR qRT PCR . Cells were washed fixed and permeabilized. M1 and M2 proteins were then probed with monoclonal antibodies for 30 min at 37 degrees C. Cells were washed and anti mouse IgG conjugated with Alexa 646 was added for 15 min at room temperature. M1 and M2 were then assayed by flow cytometry. To determine M1 and M2 protein levels the percent of M1 or M2 positive cells was multiplied by the mean flourescent intensity of M1 or M2. Each sample was then divided by the untreated control to generate the percent of M1 or M2 compared to untreated scramble controls.

The compounds of the present invention include oligonucleotide analogs comprised of different chemical entities than PMO. A series of locked nucleic acids that target the M1 M2 segment AUG start site region were synthesized LNA AUG1 LNA AUG12 LNA AUG13 and LNA AUG10 SEQ ID NOs 63 74 75 and 72 respectively and tested in the same assay for viral RNA and M2 protein expression as described above in Example 3. Intracellular delivery of the LNA oligomers was by way of gymnotic delivery Stein Hansen et al. 2010 . AMJ2 C11 cells were infected with PR8 for 1 h and then washed. The cells were then plated in a 96 well plate with LNA or 2 OMe compounds and allowed to incubate overnight at 35 degrees C. Viral RNA levels and M2 protein expression were assessed at that time approximately 18 hours total incubation time . shows the effect of the four different LNAs on viral RNA levels the HA segment . At 7.5 micromolar there was an approximately 3 log reduction in viral HA RNA levels for the LNA AUG1 oligomer compared to an approximately 1.5 log reduction for the LNA AUG12 compound SEQ ID NOs 63 and 74 respectively . LNA AUG1 is a 20mer whereas LNA AUG12 is a 16mer. There is a rank order of effectiveness according to length for all four LNA oligomers indicating the longer LNAs are preferred embodiments of the invention. This relationship is also observed in the measurement of M2 protein expression shown in with the LNA AUG1 oligo being most effective at compared to the LNA AUG10 compound at 7.5 micromolar SEQ ID NOs 63 and 72 respectively . The relatively short LNA AUG10 compound consisting of a 10 base targeting sequence was the least effective in both the viral HA RNA and M2 protein expression assays.

The compounds of the present invention also include antisense analog oligomers consisting of 2 OMe residues linked by phosphorothioate linkages. Three 2 OMe oligos were produced by IDT 2 OMe AUG1 2 OMe AUG2 and 2 OMe SA1 SEQ ID NOs 12 20 and 26 respectively. These oligomers were designed to target either the AUG start codon of the M1 M2 segment or the splice acceptor site located at nucleotide 740. The 2 OMe SA1 sequence SEQ ID NO 26 matches that of the PPMO compound described in Example 3 above as SA740. The 2 OMe compounds were tested in the same assay for their ability to inhibit viral HA RNA levels and M2 protein expression as described above in Examples 3 and 4. Intracellular delivery was attained through gymnosis as described above for LNAs in Example 4.

All three 2 OMe compounds were effective at reducing viral HA RNA levels from between 2.5 and 4.5 logs at 7.5 micromolar as shown in . The relative effectiveness of the three compounds was also observed in the M2 protein measurement assays as shown in . The most effective compound was the 2 OMe AUG2 24mer that targets the AUG start site region SEQ ID NO 20 . Similarly effective was the 2 OMe SA1 oligomer SEQ ID NO 26 that targets the downstream M1 M2 splice acceptor site.

The effect of an exemplary compound of the invention on M1 and M2 protein expression was evaluated using a western blot analysis of treated and infected AMJ2 C11 cells. An exemplary PPMO compound of the invention M1 M2 PPMO P007 M1 M2 AUG SEQ ID NO 12 conjugated at the 3 end to SEQ ID NO 118 was used to treat MDCK cells overnight at 3 micromolar. The cells were then subsequently infected with H1N1 PR8 at 0.01 MOI for 1 hour and washed. 18 hours post infection the cells were lysed and protein extracted. Equal amounts of protein were loaded onto gels for subsequent analysis by a standard immunoblot western assay using monoclonal antibodies that react with the M1 M2 and actin proteins. As shown in the expression of both M1 and M2 proteins was reduced compared to an untreated control and an irrelevant control PPMO Dengue . Analysis of the signal intensity indicated that M2 protein expression was inhibited by the M1 M2 PPMO to a greater extent than M1 protein expression as shown in i.e. 9 for M2 versus 27 for M1 . The signal comparison for M1 and M2 were normalized to the actin control.

