---

title: Systems and methods for reducing narrow bandwidth and directional interference contained in broad bandwidth signals
abstract: Under one aspect, a system includes circuitry that digitizes and Fourier transforms first and second beams and outputs first and second sets of spectral bins. Each bin may include a portion of a group of signals or interference. The circuitry compares the collective power levels of each set of spectral bins to a predetermined threshold, and excises at least one bin of that set that contains the interference if the collective power level of that set exceeds the predetermined threshold. The circuitry determines an angular location of the interference based on excised bins, combines remaining bins with weights selected to form a null in a pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the interference's angular location, and inversely Fourier transforms the combined remaining bins and outputs the group of signals less any interference that was excised or excluded by the null.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09065521&OS=09065521&RS=09065521
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 09065521
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140807
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8802 09 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application is related to the following applications the entire contents of both of which are incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 676 645 filed Nov. 14 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods for Reducing Narrow Bandwidth Interference Contained in Broad Bandwidth Signals now U.S. Pat. No. 8 614 940 and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 010 390 filed Aug. 26 2013 and entitled Systems and Methods for Reducing Narrow Bandwidth Interference Contained in Broad Bandwidth Signals now U.S. Pat. No. 8 711 675.

This application generally relates to systems and methods for reducing interference contained in signals.

A receiver may be configured to receive and process signals that have broad bandwidth spectra and powers within a certain expected range. For example a receiver on a satellite may be configured to receive a group of signals that share a common region of the electromagnetic spectrum and are multiplexed with one another using techniques known in the art. In the multiplexing technique known as code division multiple access CDMA each signal of the group is encoded with a unique code and spread over the same selected portion of the spectrum as the other signals in the group. The receiver receives the group of signals and then decodes one or more of the signals from others in the group using a priori knowledge about the unique code s of those signals. Alternatively in the multiplexing technique known as frequency division multiple access FDMA each signal of the group is assigned a different sub portion of the region of the spectrum than the other signals in the group. The receiver receives and processes the group of signals and then differentiates one or more of the signals from others in the group using a priori knowledge about the spectral sub portion s of those signals. The groups of signals received in both CDMA and FDMA may be considered broad bandwidth signals because the groups of signals occupy a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is significantly broader than normally would be used for a single non multiplexed signal that is a narrow bandwidth signal.

In both CDMA and FDMA the overall power of the group of signals received by the receiver preferably is sufficiently higher than any noise sources that may be present to yield a sufficient signal to noise ratio SNR to communicate signals with adequate fidelity as measured by BER Bit Error Rate values. At the same time the overall power of the group of signals also preferably is sufficiently low that the receiver may process the signals without distortion. Specifically as is known in the art receivers have a linear range of operation and a nonlinear range of operation. If a signal input to the receiver has a power that falls within the linear range of the receiver then the receiver processes the received signal collection without distortion. However if a signal input to the receiver has a power that falls within the nonlinear range of the receiver then the received signal collection is distorted and communication performance is degraded.

Signals other than the desired group of signals that the receiver receives may be referred to as interference may be intentional or unintentional may be directional or nondirectional and may have a broad bandwidth or a narrow bandwidth. If the receiver receives interference that falls within the same portion of the electromagnetic spectrum as the desired group of signals then the receiver may not distinguish the interference from the group of signals again degrading communication performance. However if the power of the interference is sufficiently high that nonlinear receiver operation occurs not only may the interference obscure desired spectral components but also cause additional signal distortion. This additional receiver distortion may include suppression of desired signals and generation of intermodulation products between design signal components and the interference resulting in additional degradation in receiver performance.

A receiver may have features intended to reduce the effects of such interference. For example the receiver may be designed so as to increase its linear range and thus reduce the risk that interference may cause distortion e.g. by providing circuitry that remains linear at higher input power levels. However increasing the linear range of the receiver may be expensive and also may require a larger power supply to operate the modified circuitry.

Another known approach for reducing the effect of narrow bandwidth interference on reception of a broad bandwidth desired signal uses adaptive notch filter techniques. Specifically a notch filter may be applied to the received signal prior to amplification so as to block the region of the spectrum where the interference is located. The amplitude width and spectral location of the notch filter may be adaptively modified over time by varying weighting coefficients which may be iteratively derived using a gradient process based on an optimization criterion such as maximum signal to noise plus interference ratio SNIR . Such adaptive notch filter techniques have been widely applied. However its iterative nature makes this approach is relatively slow and thus less able to respond to rapidly changing interference.

The CDMA signal format is an example of spread spectrum modulation wherein user signals are spread over a much wider bandwidth than needed to convey the information in the user s signal. One advantage of spread spectrum modulation is protection from interference achieved by processing the user unique codes. Similar interference protection may be achieved in FDMA formats by frequency hopping the user assigned frequency slots over a wide bandwidth in a pseudorandom sequence of frequency hop codes known to both the sender and receiver. Signal error correcting coding and interleaving techniques further add to the interference protection and are commonly used. These interference protection techniques are known in the art but their benefits depend on linear receiver operation. The effectiveness of these techniques is significantly degraded by receiver nonlinearities.

In addition to negating interference in the spectral domain e.g. filtering narrow bandwidth interference interference may also be spatially negated. This spatial processing commonly referred to as adaptive antenna interference cancellation combines two or more antenna elements to produce pattern null s in the direction of the interference source s . Such pattern nulls likewise reduce the received interference power. Conventional adaptive antennas use iterative algorithms to establish pattern nulls and like adaptive notch filters and accordingly cannot sufficiently respond to rapidly changing interference environments.

Thus what is needed is a method of reducing the effects of interference with broad bandwidth signals while maintaining linear receiver operation.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for reducing narrow bandwidth interference and directional interference contained in broad bandwidth signals. Specifically embodiments of the present invention may remove relatively high power interference which may be narrow bandwidth or directional or both contained in broad bandwidth desired signal beams. For example Fourier transforms of each of the signal beams may be obtained then spectral regions that have particularly high power levels may be identified and excised. Following such excision the excised portions may be used to identify an angular location of the interference and to create a null in a pattern of the beams in the direction of the interference. An inverse Fourier transform of the remaining non excised spectral regions may be obtained the result of which is a signal having reduced interference. Preferably the spectral regions to be excised are selected based on the overall power levels of the broad bandwidth desired signal so as to maintain such power levels within the linear operating range of electronic components to which the processed signal subsequently may be provided.

Under one aspect of the present invention a system is provided for processing first and second beams respectively received by first and second antennas. Both the first and second beams may include respective levels of interference. The processing of two beams is described for conceptual purposes and in practice more than two beams may be processed. The system may include an excision circuit a directional interference circuit a combining circuit and an inverse Fourier transform circuit. The excision circuit may be coupled to the first antenna and may include an analog to digital A D converter configured to digitize the first and second beams. The excision circuit further may include a Fourier transform circuit coupled to the A D converter and configured to obtain respective Fourier transforms of the digitized first and second beams and to respectively provide as outputs first and second sets of spectral bins. Each bin of the first and second sets may have a respective power level at least some of the bins of the first and second sets may include respective portions of a group of signals and at least one bin of the first or second set may include the interference. The excision circuit further may include a power analysis circuit configured to respectively compare the collective power levels of each of the first and second sets of spectral bins to a predetermined threshold and if the collective power level of the first or second set of spectral bins exceeds the predetermined threshold to excise at least one bin of that set that contains the interference. The directional interference circuit may be coupled to the excision circuit and may be configured to i determine an angular location of the interference based on the at least one excised bin and ii select weights to respectively apply to the remaining bins of the first and second sets so as to form a null in a pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the determined angular location of the interference. The combining circuit may be coupled to the directional interference circuit and configured to combine the remaining bins of the first and second sets with the selected respective weights. The inverse Fourier transform circuit may be coupled to the combining circuit and configured to obtain an inverse Fourier transform of the combined remaining bins of the first and second sets and to provide as output the digitized group of signals less any excised interference and less any interference excluded by the null.

In some embodiments the directional interference circuit includes a summing circuit configured to sum the bins respectively excised from the first and second sets of bins as a function of angle between the first and second beams. The directional interference circuit further may include a difference circuit configured to calculate a difference between the bins respectively excised from the first and second sets of bins a function of the angle between the first and second beams. The directional interference circuit further may include a division circuit configured to calculate a ratio of the difference divided by the sum as a function of the angle between the first and second beams. The directional interference circuit further may include an interference location circuit configured to determine the angular location of the interference based on a variation in the ratio as a function of the angle between the first and second beams. The directional interference circuit further may include a weight calculation circuit configured to select the weights to respectively apply to the remaining bins of the first and second sets so as to form the null and to output the selected weights to the combining circuit.

In some embodiments the A D converter includes a first A D converter configured to digitize the first beam and a second A D converter configured to digitize the second beam. The Fourier transform circuit may include a first Fourier transform circuit configured to obtain the Fourier transform of the digitized first beam and a second Fourier transform circuit configured to obtain the Fourier transform of the digitized second beam. The power analysis circuit may include a first power analysis circuit coupled to the first Fourier transform circuit and a second power analysis circuit coupled to the second Fourier transform circuit.

In some embodiments the predetermined threshold is selected such that the collective power of each of the first and second bins following excision is sufficiently low to maintain linear operation of the system.

In some embodiments the power analysis circuit further is configured to obtain a dynamically defined threshold having a value that if spectral bins respectively of the first or second sets having power levels exceeding that threshold are excised would reduce the respective collective power of that set to or below the predetermined threshold. The one or more excised spectral bins may have a power level that exceeds the dynamically defined threshold.

Some embodiments further include a demodulator configured to demodulate the digitized group of signals output by the inverse Fourier transform circuit.

Some embodiments further include an amplifier configured to receive and to amplify the digitized group of signals output by the inverse Fourier transform circuit and an antenna configured to transmit the amplified output.

Under another aspect of the present invention a method is provided for processing first and second beams respectively received by first and second antennas. Both the first and second beams may include respective levels of interference. The method may include digitizing the first and second beams and respectively obtaining Fourier transforms of the digitized first and second beams and outputting first and second sets of spectral bins. Each bin of the first and second sets may have a respective power level at least some of the bins of the first and second sets may include respective portions of a group of signals and at least one bin of the first or second set may include the interference. The method may include respectively comparing the collective power levels of each of the first and second sets of spectral bins to a predetermined threshold and if the collective power level of the first or second set of spectral bins exceeds the predetermined threshold excising at least one bin of that set that contains the interference. The method may include determining an angular location of the interference based on the at least one excised bin selecting weights to respectively apply to the remaining bins of the first and second sets so as to form a null in a pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the determined angular location of the interference and combining the remaining bins of the first and second sets with the selected respective weights. The method further may include obtaining an inverse Fourier transform of the combined remaining bins of the first and second sets of bins and providing as output the digitized group of signals less any excised interference and less any interference excluded by the null.

In some embodiments determining the angular location of the interference may include summing the bins respectively excised from the first and second sets of bins as a function of angle between the first and second beams calculating a difference between the bins respectively excised from the first and second sets of bins as a function of the angle between the first and second beams calculating a ratio of the difference divided by the sum as a function of the angle between the first and second beams and determining the angular location of the interference based on the observed ratio as a function of the angle between the first and second beams. Some embodiments further may include selecting the weights to respectively apply to the remaining bins of the first and second sets so as to form the null.

Some embodiments include digitizing the first beam with a first A D converter and digitizing the second beam with a second A D converter obtaining the Fourier transform of the digitized first beam with a first Fourier transform circuit and obtaining the Fourier transform of the digitized second beam with a second Fourier transform circuit and comparing the collective power levels with a first power analysis circuit coupled to the first Fourier transform circuit and a second power analysis circuit coupled to the second Fourier transform circuit.

In some embodiments the predetermined threshold is selected such that the collective power of each of the first and second bins following excision is sufficiently low to maintain linear operation of the system. The predetermined threshold may be fixed.

Some embodiments further include obtaining a dynamically defined threshold having a value that if spectral bins respectively of the first or second set having power levels exceeding that threshold are excised would reduce the respective collective power of the first or second set to or below the predetermined threshold wherein the excised spectral bins have power levels that exceed the dynamically defined threshold.

Some embodiments further include demodulating the digitized group of signals output by the inverse Fourier transform circuit.

Some embodiments further include amplifying the digitized group of signals output by the inverse Fourier transform circuit and transmitting the amplified output.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for reducing interference which may be narrow bandwidth or directional or both within broad bandwidth signals such as a group of signals that are multiplexed with each other and that share a common portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. As described above if a receiver receives both desired broad bandwidth signals and high level narrow bandwidth or directional interference the composite of the signals and interference may result in nonlinear receiver operation distorting the desired broad bandwidth signals thus reducing the receiver s ability to retrieve information from the desired signals e.g. to distinguish the multiplexed signals from one another. The present invention reduces the effect of such interference by removing spectral components of such interference and by forming beam patterns that exclude such interference in real time. Specifically embodiments of the present invention digitize first and second beams that respectively may include portions of a received signal collection and any interference into quantized levels and then respectively Fourier transform these digitized beams to obtain first and second sets of spectral bins. Two antenna beams are described herein for conceptual reasons but in practice more than two beams may be processed. Each frequency bin has an intensity that corresponds to the composite power of any signal or interference components that fall within the frequency bin. Some if not all of the spectral bins contain spectrally resolved portions of the digitized group of signals. Additionally at least one spectral bin may contains the interference and indeed multiple bins of one or both sets of spectral bins may contain the interference depending on the spectral content and angular location of the interference.

Embodiments of the present invention provide that any spectral bins that contain interference may be excised if such bins contain a particularly high power and if the collective power level of all of the bins in either the first or second sets of spectral bins together exceeds a predetermined threshold. Excising interference containing bins when both of such conditions are met may be useful because if the collective power level of all of the bins in one of the first or second sets of bins is sufficiently low that the receiver operates within its linear range then any interference present may not necessarily cause additional distortion of the desired signals additionally when spread spectrum waveforms are used the spread spectrum processing advantage may be sufficient to restore signal detection when linear receiver operation prevails. In contrast if the collective power of the bins in one of the first and second sets of bins is relatively high e.g. if there is a risk that the receiver may operate within its nonlinear range then such power level may be used as a signal that interference is present. Appropriate circuitry may identify any interference present in a bin based on the power level of that bin which may be relatively high as compared to other bins within the respective set of bins. Any bins so identified as having interference may be excised e.g. set to zero.

The excised bins then may be used to identify an angular location of the interference and to form a null in the pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with that angular location. For example the excised bins may be combined in such a manner that permits identification of the angular location of the interference based upon which weights to be respectively applied to the first and second sets of bins may be determined that would form a null in the pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with that angular location. The remaining bins of the first and second sets of bins may be combined with such weights and the resulting combination then inversely Fourier transformed to obtain the digitized signals less any excised or excluded interference in the time domain. After high level interference is excised or excluded the dynamic range of the remaining signal collection is reduced from its previous value when high level interference was present. This reduced dynamic range after excision or exclusion of high level interference advantageously may reduce the power consumption of the electronics following the interference excision particularly for transponders such as described below with reference to . Embodiments of the present invention thus may in some circumstances be viewed as a dynamic digital prefilter to maintain linear receiver operation.

First an overview of the inventive system and components therein will be provided. Then methods of using such a system and signals processed thereby will be described. Lastly some exemplary applications of embodiments of the present invention will be described.

Antenna reflector illustrated in may be configured to wirelessly receive at least first and second beams that respectively include portions of a group of signals within a particular frequency band or bands and respectively to output first and second analog signals . For example antenna reflector may be configured to receive first and second beams that include portions of analog CDMA or FDMA signals that fall within a pre defined spectral band and may include one or more filters configured to block signals having frequencies that fall outside of this band. Appropriate antenna designs for a variety of signals in a variety of contexts e.g. terrestrial aircraft or space based antennas are known in the art. In some embodiments antenna reflector may be a pre existing structure to which interference reduction system may be coupled.

Feed cluster analog conditioners may be configured to receive analog signals corresponding to the first and second beams and to output conditioned analog signals corresponding to the first and second beams. For example feed cluster analog conditioners may include an input RF filter to select the bandwidth containing desired signal components and reject other signals at frequencies outside of that bandwidth a low noise amplifier to establish the system noise level and may contain one or more downconverters to translate the RF bandwidth containing the analog signals into the bandwidth over which the interference reduction system operates. Such components may be considered together to constitute analog conditioning circuitry. Receiver can include separate analog conditioners for each of the first and second beams.

Within the exemplary interference reduction system illustrated in excision circuit s is configured to receive conditioned analog signals respectively corresponding to the first and second beams. As noted above excision circuit s may be configured to digitize and to analyze the spectra and power of each of the conditioned first and second beams in the frequency domain and based on such analysis to excise at least one spectral bin from at least one of the first and second beams that includes interference. Excision circuit s may include a single excision circuit configured as such or alternatively may include a plurality of excision circuits each of which is configured to digitize and to analyze the spectra and power of a corresponding one of the conditioned first and second beams in the frequency domain. Note that such a plurality of excision circuits collectively may excise at least one bin that contains the interference although any given excision circuit may not necessarily excise any bins depending on the particular power and spectral characteristics of the beam that the circuit is analyzing. In one illustrative embodiment excision circuit s includes a first excision circuit such as illustrated in configured to analyze conditioned analog signal corresponding to the first beam and to output excised bins to directional interference circuit and remaining bins to combining circuit and a second excision circuit not specifically illustrated that is configured analogously to excision circuit to analyze conditioned analog signal corresponding to the second beam and to output excised bins to directional interference circuit and remaining bins to combining circuit . Any suitable number and configuration of excision circuits may be provided. For further details on exemplary excision circuits exemplary components thereof and exemplary methods of using excision circuits see U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 614 940 and 8 711 675.

In the illustrative embodiment of first excision circuit may include analog to digital A D converter configured to receive and digitize conditioned analog signal corresponding to the first beam fast Fourier transform FFT circuit configured to receive and perform an FFT of the digitized signal output by A D converter and power analysis circuit configured to receive analyze and reduce interference contributions to the Fourier transformed signal output by FFT circuit and to output excised bins to directional interference circuit and remaining bins to combining circuit .

A D converter may include a suitable input port configured to be coupled to feed cluster analog conditioners via a suitable conductive element input port and conductive element not specifically illustrated . The conductive element may include for example a coaxial cable a transmission line or any other suitable conductor configured to transmit conditioned analog signal which may be within a pre defined spectral band from feed cluster analog conditioners to A D converter via the input port. A D converter preferably is configured to digitize and quantize analog signal . As known to those of skill in the art of digital signal processing A D converters are commercially available devices that generate a digital version of an analog signal by sampling that signal at a specified rate and mapping the power levels of that analog signal onto quantization levels in a digital data stream. A D converters may have a fixed resolution that is may have a fixed number of quantization levels onto which it may map the power levels of the analog signal. For example A D converters with an 8 bit resolution may be configured to map analog power levels onto 255 quantization levels. A D converter provides as output to FFT circuit via a suitable conductive element not specifically illustrated a digitized quantized version of first beam and a digitized quantized version of any interference that shares the same spectral band as the first beam e.g. that was not filtered out by feed cluster analog conditioners nor removed as a product of digitization or quantization .

As is known in the art a discrete Fourier transform DFT may be used to determine the frequency components of a signal that varies in time. An FFT is a particular variant of DFT in which the input signal has a number of points N that is a power of two and is Fourier transformed using an algorithm that is particularly efficient at obtaining a DFT of an input signal having a number of points that is a power of two such as the Cooley Tukey algorithms known in the art. The output of a DFT is a spectrally resolved version of the input signal in which different spectral components of the incoming signal are mapped onto a predefined number e.g. for an FFT a power of two of spectral bins. In some embodiments the signal output by A D converter has a number of points N that is a power of two and FFT circuit is configured to perform an FFT on that signal. Circuits for performing FFTs as well as other types of Fourier transformations of digital signals are known in the art and are commercially available. In some embodiments FFT circuit provides as output a set of spectral bins at least some of which contain portions of the group of signals within the first beam and at least one of which may contain interference. Each bin of the first set has a power level corresponding to the summed power levels of any spectral components be they based on the desired group of signals or based on the interference that have been mapped to that bin. FFT circuit provides the resulting set of spectral bins corresponding to the first beam to a suitable input port of power analysis circuit via a suitable conductive element input port and conductive element not specifically illustrated .

Preferably feed cluster analog conditioners A D converter and FFT circuitry are configured so as to ensure that linear operation is maintained prior to interference excision for the highest anticipated interference level. Preferably the analog components e.g. feed cluster analog conditioners have a sufficiently high 1 dB compression value relative to the A D input to maintain linear operation. In practice the gain distribution may be examined and in some cases the receiver noise temperature may be increased somewhat by reducing the analog gain values to achieve the required linearity. The clipping levels and quantization used in the digital technology e.g. A D converter and FFT circuitry likewise may be selected to avoid digital overflow or nonlinear operation in the digital technology used prior to interference excision.

Power analysis circuit is configured to excise one or more of the spectral bins of the set of spectral bins that it receives from FFT circuit as appropriate based both on the collective power of the set of bins and based on the power of each bin individually. By excise it is meant that power analysis circuit reduces the power levels of such spectral bins to zero or about zero in some embodiments or to a predetermined non zero level in other embodiments. Specifically power analysis circuit preferably configured to compare the collective power of all of the bins of the set to a predefined threshold which preferably is based on the linear range of operation of one or more demodulators . In one illustrative example if demodulator is limited to a maximum input signal level to achieve the required demodulation linearity then the predefined threshold may be established to limit the signal power output from iFFT circuit to demodulator s to somewhat less than the maximum demodulator input level e.g. to 95 or less or 90 or less or 85 of less than the maximum demodulator input level. If power analysis circuit determines that the collective power level of the set of bins exceeds the predetermined threshold then the circuit may establish a dynamically defined threshold selected to facilitate identification and excision of interference that may be present while reducing the risk that the desired group of signals within that set of bins also may be excised. To do so power analysis circuit may determine the amount by which the collective power level of the bins of the set must be reduced to satisfy the predetermined threshold and then may establish the dynamically defined threshold at such a value that if bins having powers exceeding that threshold are excised it would reduce the collective power of the set of bins to or below the predetermined threshold. Power analysis circuit then may excise any bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold e.g. by setting the power levels of such bins to zero.

Power analysis circuit may include any suitable circuitry configured to store the predefined threshold to compare the collective power of the spectral bins to the predefined threshold to establish the dynamically defined threshold and to excise any bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold. For example in the embodiment illustrated in power analysis circuit may include arithmetic circuit A storage medium comparator A arithmetic circuit B and comparator B . Arithmetic circuit A may be configured to obtain the set of spectral bins output by FFT circuit e.g. via a suitable conductive element not specifically illustrated and to sum the power levels of the spectral bins of that set so as to obtain a collective power level of the bins of that set. Storage medium may be configured to store the predefined threshold. In some embodiments the predefined threshold is based on the known linearity characteristics of circuitry in demodulator s which may be established at the time receiver is designed and constructed. Comparator A may be coupled e.g. via appropriate conductive elements to storage medium from which it receives the predefined threshold and to arithmetic circuit A from which it receives the set of spectral bins as well as the collective power level of the set of spectral bins. Comparator A may be configured to compare the collective power of the set of spectral bins to the predefined threshold.

Comparator A also may be coupled to arithmetic circuit B e.g. via an appropriate conductive element so as to provide to arithmetic circuit B with the set of spectral bins as well as a signal indicating the amount if any by which the collective power of the set of spectral bins exceeds the predefined threshold. Arithmetic circuit B also may receive the predefined threshold either from comparator A or from storage medium as is illustrated in . Arithmetic circuit B preferably is configured to obtain a dynamically defined threshold having a value such that if bins having powers exceeding that threshold are excised it would reduce the collective power of the set of bins to or below the predetermined threshold. Arithmetic circuit B is coupled to comparator B e.g. via an appropriate conductive element. Comparator B receives the spectral bins as well as the dynamically defined threshold from arithmetic circuit B . Comparator B is configured to set to excise e.g. set to zero any spectral bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold and to generate two outputs. Preferably the first output includes any excised bins of the set of spectral bins corresponding to the first beam and is provided to directional interference circuit for use in determining the angular location of the interference and in selecting respective weights to apply to the first and second beams so as to form a null in the pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the determined angular location of the interference. The second output preferably includes the remaining non excised bins of the set of spectral bins corresponding to the first beam and is provided to combining circuit for use in combining the first and second beams together with the selected respective weights e.g. as described below with reference to . Analogously excision circuit s may include a second excision circuit not specifically illustrated that receives signal and that generates output that includes any excised bins of a set of spectral bins corresponding to the second beam and is provided to directional interference circuit and an output that includes the remaining non excised bins of the set of spectral bins corresponding to the second beam and is provided to combining circuit .

Note that arithmetic circuits A and B comparators A and B and storage medium may be implemented using any suitable logic circuits known in the art. For example arithmetic circuits are known in the art and are commercially available as are comparators and storage media and suitably may be coupled together with conductive elements. In other embodiments the functionalities of one or more of arithmetic circuits A and B comparators A and B and or storage medium may be provided by a suitably programmed field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific integrated circuit ASIC . FPGAs and ASICs are commercially available and methods of programming same to achieve desired logical programming are known in the art. In still other embodiments the functionalities of one or more of arithmetic circuits A and B comparators A and B and storage medium may be provided by a suitably programmed computer e.g. a suitably programmed general purpose computer. Additionally note that circuitry other than arithmetic circuits A and B comparators A and B and storage medium may be used to provide power analysis circuit with functionality analogous to that described herein.

Referring again to it should be understood that excision circuit s may include any suitable number of suitably configured excision circuits. For example for embodiments in which antenna reflector of receiver receives a plurality of beams excision circuit s may include a plurality of A D converters each configured to digitize a corresponding beam a plurality of Fourier transform circuits each coupled to a corresponding A D converter and configured to obtain a Fourier transform of the corresponding digitized beam and a plurality of power analysis circuits each coupled to a corresponding Fourier transform circuit. In one illustrative embodiment antenna reflector receives first and second beams and excision circuit s include first and second A D converters first and second Fourier transform circuits and first and second power analysis circuits. Alternatively excision circuit s may include a single excision circuit that is configured analogously to first excision circuit but that receives multiple analog signals e.g. that receives signal corresponding to the first beam and signal corresponding to the second beam and that is configured to process both the first and second beam in a manner analogous to that described above for first excision circuit . In still another alternative embodiment excision circuit s may include a plurality of A D converters each configured to digitize a corresponding beam a plurality of Fourier transform circuits each coupled to a corresponding A D converter and configured to obtain a Fourier transform of the corresponding digitized beam and a single power analysis circuit coupled to each of the Fourier transform circuits. Other suitable circuit configurations may be used. Additionally it should be understood that the term first and second beams includes two or more beams e.g. includes three or more beams or four or more beams or eight or more beams and so on and that any suitable number and configuration of components may be used to excise or exclude interference from such beams.

Directional interference circuit illustrated in is coupled to excision circuit s and receives excised bins therefrom e.g. receives first output corresponding to the first beam and second output corresponding to the second beam for use in determining the angular location of the interference and in selecting respective weights to apply to the first and second beams so as to form a null in the pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the determined angular location of the interference.

Interference location circuit is configured to receive the ratio and to determine the angular location of the interference based on a variation in the ratio as a function of the angle between the first and second beams. For example as described in greater detail below with reference to antenna reflector may be characterized by an a priori known monopulse error slope corresponding to the ratio of the difference between two non interference containing beams divided by the sum of those beams on a bin by bin basis as a function of the angle between the those beams. Storage medium may be configured to store the monopulse error slope for reflector and interference location circuit may be configured to retrieve the monopulse error slope from storage medium and to compare the ratio of the difference divided by the sum for the excised bins to that slope.

The interference levels of concern may be sufficiently high that their levels exceed the spread spectrum protection that otherwise may be offered by the user s waveforms or would produce nonlinear system operation or both. The excision circuitry can identify those frequency bins containing interference components. The sum and difference values of the frequency bins containing the interference components can be dominated by the interference. The ratio of the difference and the sum of the interference bins then can be computed by the division circuit . The direction of the interference can be determined by comparing the observed ratio with the a priori predetermined ratio as a function of the angular location between the two beams. This a priori ratio can be referred to as the monopulse error slope and an example is illustrated in described further below.

Weight calculation circuit is configured to select the weights to respectively apply to the remaining bins of the first and second sets of bins so as to form a null in a pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the determined angular location of the interference. For example weight calculation circuit may receive from interference location circuit a signal representative of the variation between the ratio and the slope as a function of angle between the first and second beams. Based on such variation weight calculation circuit may determine one or more locations at which a null in a pattern between the first and second beams would exclude the interference and then may determine and output to combining circuit appropriate weights to respectively apply to the first and second beams so as to generate such a null e.g. based on a priori known signal characteristics of antenna reflector stored within storage medium .

It should be appreciated that summing circuit difference circuit division circuit interference location circuit storage medium and weight calculation circuit may be implemented using any suitable logic circuits known in the art. For example arithmetic circuits are known in the art and are commercially available as are comparators and storage media and suitably may be coupled together with conductive elements. In other embodiments the functionalities of one or more of summing circuit difference circuit division circuit interference location circuit storage medium and weight calculation circuit may be provided by a suitably programmed field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In still other embodiments the functionalities of one or more of summing circuit difference circuit division circuit interference location circuit storage medium and weight calculation circuit may be provided by a suitably programmed computer e.g. a suitably programmed general purpose computer. Additionally note that circuitry other than summing circuit difference circuit division circuit interference location circuit storage medium and weight calculation circuit may be used to provide directional interference circuit with functionality analogous to that described herein.

Referring again to combining circuit is configured to receive from directional interference circuit respective weights to apply to the first and second beams so as to generate the null and also to receive from excision circuit s the remaining bins of the first and second sets of bins. Combining circuit is configured to apply weight to bins to obtain a first set of weighted bins to apply weight to bins to obtain a second set of weighted bins and to add the first and second sets of weighted bins together on a bin by bin basis to obtain an output of combined weighted bins . Suitable circuitry for applying weights and combining signals in the frequency domain is commercially available.

Inverse FFT iFFT circuit is configured to receive the combined weighted bins output by combining circuit via a suitable input port and conductive element not specifically illustrated . iFFT circuit which may include any suitable commercially available circuitry then performs an inverse function to that of FFT circuit illustrated in that is to determine the time components of a signal that varies in frequency and as such to provide as output a signal that resembles the first and second beams plus interference initially received by antenna reflector but less the interference in any bin whose power was excised by excision circuit or that was excluded by the null formed using directional interference circuit and combining circuit . iFFT circuit provides such output to demodulator s via a suitable input port and conductive element not specifically illustrated . Because interference reduction system reduces the amount of interference that demodulator s receive the demodulator s are more likely to operate within their linear range s and thus less likely to distort the desired group of signals. As such receiver may more readily distinguish and obtain information from the different multiplexed signal components of the desired group of signals from one another than may otherwise be possible without the interference reduction.

In an alternative embodiment transponder illustrated in is configured similarly to receiver illustrated in but is configured to transmit the inversely Fourier transformed signal to a remote user for remote demodulation rather than locally demodulating the signal. In transponder iFFT circuit is configured to provide its output to amplifier and transmit antenna s e.g. via a suitable input port and conductive element not specifically illustrated . Amplifier and transmit antenna s then amplify and transmit the received signal to one or more individual user s each of whom has their own demodulator s . In such embodiments the predetermined threshold used by power analysis circuit preferably is based on the linear range of operation of amplifier and transmit antenna s . For example if the amplifier and transmit antenna s are limited to a total power of 50 Watts or less to achieve linearity then the predefined threshold may be established to limit the signal power output from iFFT circuit to amplifier and transmit antenna s so that the transmitter s exemplary 50 Watt output linearity capability is not exceeded.

The operation of system illustrated in now will be described in greater detail with reference to method illustrated in and submethod illustrated in and exemplary signals and information illustrated in .

Method illustrated in includes receiving first and second beams including a group of signals at least one of the first and second beams including interference step . For example as described above with reference to antenna reflector may receive the first and second beams and provide the beams to feed cluster analog conditioners for conditioning using methods known in the art.

Method illustrated in also includes digitizing the first and second beams step . For example in the embodiment illustrated in excision circuit s may include one or more A D converters configured to receive and to digitize conditioned first beam and conditioned second beam . Or for example in the embodiment illustrated in first excision circuit may include a first A D converter configured to receive and to digitize conditioned first beam and a second excision circuit not specifically illustrated may include a second A D converter configured to receive and to digitize conditioned second beam . However as noted above the first and second beams suitably may be digitized using any suitable element or combination of elements that need not necessarily be located within excision circuit s .

Additionally the first and second beams respectively may include portions of the desired group of signals and any directional interference that occurs within the same bandwidth as does the group of signals. For example illustrates a frequency domain representation of an exemplary group of code division multiple access CDMA signals and interference that may be received by the antenna analog conditioner of a receiver. As illustrated in exemplary CDMA signal that may be present in one or both of the first and second beams sampled at a given period of time and digitized in a manner such as described further herein may include several different portions a f having power levels that vary over time. In the example of signal includes CDMA signal components distributed across frequency bins a f across the bandwidth communicating the CDMA signal collection. Additionally frequency bins c and e include narrow band interference signals whose power levels exceed the power levels of the CDMA signal collection in those bins. The interference power levels may be compared with the threshold level in a manner such as described further herein. The interference power level in frequency bin c exceeds the threshold level and may be excised in a manner such as described further herein. By contrast the lower interference power level in frequency bin e is less than the threshold level and may not be excised. The remaining spectrum exclusive of the excised frequency bin c then may be processed in the demodulator in or routed to the remainder of the transponder in .

As noted above during step of the first and second beams are digitized into quantized levels forming first and second digital data streams which respectively include portions of the desired group of CDMA signals and one or more of which may include interference. Following transforming the first and second beams into the digital domain an FFT of each beam is performed step that transforms that beam at a given instant of time into a respective set of frequency bins spanning the spectrum of the signal at that instant and the corresponding first and second sets of bins are output. At least some of the bins contain respective portions of the group of signals and at least one bin may contain interference. In one illustrative embodiment received signal has a bandwidth of approximately 10 MHz and is mapped by FFT circuit onto 64 bins in which case the frequency resolution the width of each bin is about 156 kHz.

In one illustrative example if the instant of time when the FFT is performed over the bandwidth occupied by the CDMA signal collection the distribution of power levels in the frequency bins in indicates the power levels of the CDMA system users and in addition a relatively strong interference component in bin c and a more moderate interference component in frequency bin c. The actual signals in the FFT bins may be contained in a digital data stream and the illustration in indicates exemplary power levels in those bins at a given instant of time. If the input signal collection exclusively included CDMA signals the distribution of power levels in the FFT bins would be relatively constant and would be expected to vary with time only as the number of system users changes. However the distribution of power levels in the frequency bins illustrated in includes two bins c and e that respectively include higher power levels than the remaining bins a b d and f. The bins c and e with the relatively higher power levels include not only the spectral components of the desired CDMA signal collection but also the spectral components of two interfering signals. The illustration in also includes the dynamically predefined threshold level established by the power analysis circuit as described further below. In the power level of bin c exceeds threshold while the power level of bin e does not.

Method of also includes respectively comparing the collective power level of the first and second sets of spectral bins to a predefined threshold and if the collective power level of the first or second set of spectral bins exceeds the predetermined threshold excising at least one bin of that set that contains interference step . For example power analysis circuit described above with reference to may receive the first set of spectral bins from FFT circuit and may include circuitry such as arithmetic circuit A storage medium and comparator A that together are configured to obtain the collective power of the received spectral bins of that set and to compare the collective power level of those bins to a predefined threshold so as to assess whether the set of spectral bins has a power that exceeds the linear range of demodulator s . For the exemplary signal illustrated in arithmetic circuit A may obtain a sum of the power levels in bins a f storage medium may store a value representative of the maximum power level at which demodulator s may demodulate signal portions within the set of bins with adequate linearity and comparator A may be configured to compare the sum from arithmetic circuit A to the value from storage medium .

In some embodiments if the collective power of either set of the spectral bins exceeds the predetermined threshold a threshold for that set may be dynamically defined. Preferably the dynamically defined threshold has a value that if the bins having powers exceeding that threshold are excised from the set the collective power of that set would be reduced to or below the predetermined threshold. For example as noted above with reference to power analysis circuit may include arithmetic circuit B that is configured to establish the dynamically defined threshold in such a manner. For the exemplary spectral bins illustrated in bin c has a power level that exceeds dynamically defined threshold while the power level of bin e is less than threshold .

In some embodiments bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold may be excised from the set of spectral bins such as by setting the power level of such bins to zero. For example power analysis circuit illustrated in may include comparator B configured to compare the power level of each spectral bin of the set to the dynamically defined threshold and to reduced to zero the power level of any spectral bin of the set that exceeds the dynamically defined threshold. illustrates the exemplary set of spectral bins of following excision of at least one bin including interference. For example referring to it may be seen that the power level of spectral bin c which exceeded dynamically defined threshold in has been set to zero thus excising that bin from the set and resulting in modified bin c . However although the power level of spectral bin e exceeds that of the remaining bins of the set bin e in has not been excised because its power does not exceed dynamically defined threshold . The signals at this time instant are contained in a digital data stream that differs from the digital data stream after the A D by excluding the spectral distribution of the high level interference in frequency bin c but including the spectral distribution of the interference below the threshold in frequency bin e. The power levels after excision in represent the spectral components in the set of spectral bins after excision . It should be noted that bin e may contain usable signal information because the power level of the interference is not significantly greater than that of the desired signal component to which it is added. In this case the CDMA processing gain can mitigate the lower level interference as is known in the art. Preferably following the excision of any bins of the set that exceed the dynamically defined threshold the collective power of the remaining bins of the set is at or below the predetermined threshold that is is within the linear range of operation of demodulator s .

Method of further includes determining the angular location of the interference based on the at least one excised bin step . illustrates an exemplary submethod for implementing step although it should be appreciated that other submethods suitably may be used.

Submethod illustrated in includes summing the bins that respectively were excised from the first and second sets of bins as a function of the angle between the first and second beams step . Such summing may for example be performed on a bin by bin basis e.g. by adding the spectral content of a first bin of the first set of bins to the spectral content of a corresponding first bin of the second set of bins adding the spectral content of a second bin of the first set of bins to the spectral content of a corresponding second bin of the second set of bins and so on. In one illustrative embodiment summing circuit illustrated in is configured so as to perform step .

Submethod illustrated in also includes calculating a difference between the bins that respectively were excised from the first and second sets of bins as a function of the angle between the first and second beams step . Such difference may for example be performed on a bin by bin basis in a manner analogous to that described above for the summing of step . In one illustrative embodiment difference circuit illustrated in is configured so as to perform step .

Submethod illustrated in also includes calculating the ratio of the difference divided by the sum as a function of the angle between the first and second beams step . Such a ratio may for example be performed on a bin by bin basis in a manner analogous to that described above for the summing of step . In one illustrative embodiment division circuit illustrated in is configured so as to perform step .

Submethod illustrated in also includes determining the angular location of the interference based on a variation in the ratio as a function of the angle between the first and second beams step . Such a determination may for example be performed on a bin by bin basis in a manner analogous to that described above for the summing of step . In one illustrative embodiment interference location circuit illustrated in is configured so as to perform step .

As noted above with reference to antenna reflector may be characterized by an a priori known monopulse error slope corresponding to the ratio of the difference between two non interference containing beams divided by the sum of those beams on a bin by bin basis as a function of the angle between the those beams. More specifically illustrates an exemplary pattern of first beam and second beam that may be received by antenna reflector as a function of angle between the beams. In this example beams have a 4.3 dB tangential crossover level and the patterns are represented by a sin X X function. Sum of the two beams e.g. such as calculated during step of submethod is illustrated in . The difference between the two beams e.g. such as calculated during step of submethod is illustrated in .

As noted above step of submethod includes calculating the ratio of the difference divided by the sum as a function of the angle between the first and second beams. This ratio corresponds to an a priori known monopulse error slope that may be stored and used to detect the angular location of directional interference that may occur in one or more of the beams at a later time. illustrates the a priori known monopulse error slope for the exemplary beams illustrated in as a function of angle between the beams according to some embodiments of the present invention. It may be seen that the slope is substantially monotonic and preferably also is substantially linear as a function of the angle between beams . However if interference is present in one or both of the beams then the ratio of the difference divided by the sum for such beams may detectably vary relative to the a priori known monopulse error slope at one or more points along the x axis. Accordingly the angular location of directional interference may be determined by comparing the observed value of the monopulse error slope. Interference that is sufficiently strong to degrade desired signal communication may significantly exceed the desired signal power because of the interference protection provided by the spread spectrum modulation. As a result the observed error slope value when significant interference power is present may be dominated by the interference power not the desired user signal power. The magnitude of the observed error slope value indicates the angular displacement from the center position between the beams e.g. an observed error slope value of 0 indicates the angular location of the interference is exactly between the two beams. In an illustrative embodiment the sign of the observed error slope value indicates the angular location of the interference is either left negative sign or right positive sign of the center location between the two beams.

Submethod illustrated in also includes selecting the weights to respectively apply to the remaining bins of the first and second sets so as to form a null in the pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the determined angular location of the interference step . Referring again to method includes combining the remaining non excised bins of the first and second sets with the respective weights selected so as to form the null in the pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the determined angular location of the interference step . For example in one illustrative embodiment weight calculation circuit illustrated in is configured so as to perform step and to provide the selected weights to combining circuit illustrated in .

For example if the interference is between first and second beams and closer to first beam then pattern or the like may be used while if the interference is between first and second beams and closer to second beam then pattern or the like may be used. Or for example if the interference is between first and second beams and still closer to first beam then the summed beam may be used with beam and the amplitude adjusted to align the pattern null with the interference source to form pattern or the like may be used while if the interference is between first and second beams and still closer to second beam then the summed beam may be used with beam and the amplitude adjusted to align the pattern null with the interference source to form pattern or the like may be used. Or for example if the interference is approximately centered either on beam or then the sum patterns or respectively may be used. An exemplary reason for using the sum beam when the interference is more than 0.2 beamwidths from the center between the two beams is that the levels of beams and respectively may have small values that would require large weighting values. The weighting values may be reduced when the sum beam is used for interference more than roughly 0.2 beamwidths from the center between the two beams. The relatively large weighting values may increase the system noise level degrading communications.

Method of further includes performing an inverse Fourier transform on the combined remaining spectral bins of the first and second sets so as to obtain a digitized group of signals less any interference that was in the excised bins or that was excluded by the null step . For example as noted above with reference to iFFT circuit may perform an iFFT on the output of combining circuit and may provide the output of such iFFT to demodulator s . The iFFT output may for example include a digital data stream containing the information describing the wide bandwidth CDMA spectrum illustrated in at a given instant of time occurring during portion e illustrated in . The resulting spectrum after iFFT operations is again a digital data stream that at a given instant of time may have the exemplary power spectral distribution illustrated in for CDMA based embodiments during the instant of time these operations were performed. Each frequency bin after iFFT operations may follow the time domain signal variation during subsequent time periods.

Note that the spectrum after excision in has a somewhat reduced desired CDMA signal power that results from the excision. This signal loss is relatively small because the high level interference power has a relatively narrow bandwidth that occupies a relatively small fraction of the frequency bins. In comparison wide bandwidth high level interference may occupy a larger number of frequency bins that may result in the loss of more desired CDMA signal power. The tolerable amount of signal loss may be based on the link margin and amount of signal energy needed for acceptable signal performance. However excising high level signal components that result in nonlinear receiver operation may inhibit the additional degradation to communication performance. When linear receiver operation is maintained the loss in communication performance may be limited to desired signal loss resulting from excision. In addition the spectral components of the interference whose levels do not exceed the excision threshold also may be present. The processing gain of the CDMA waveform may provide interference protection from relatively low level interference such as known in the art.

Following steps illustrated in the resulting signals then may be distinguished from one another e.g. demultiplexed and decoded using a priori knowledge of the CDMA codes initially used to multiplex the signals with one another. The power requirements of receiver illustrated in or transponder illustrated in for performing such processing may be significantly reduced relative to those for processing otherwise similar signals from which interference had not been excised or nulled out particularly in the case where interference excision is applied to transponder architectures where the transponder s transmitter level must be increased to maintain a linear output.

Note that excising a given bin during step of method illustrated in not only removes any interference within that bin but also any spectral components of the desired group of signals within that bin. However for CDMA based signals such excision of desired signal components may have little impact on the receiver s ability later to demultiplex and decode the signal components in the remaining bins. Specifically as mentioned above and as known in the art CDMA spreads each signal of the group over the same selected portion of the spectrum as the other signals in the group. As such excising a subset of that selected portion of the spectrum the subset being within the excised bin reduces the overall signal strength of all of the signals in the group but substantially without reducing the information content of the signals in the group. For example even if 20 of the selected portion of the selected portion of the spectrum is excised the overall power of the desired group of signals may be reduced by approximately 1 dB which may not significantly impact the receiver s ability to demultiplex and decode the signal components in the remaining bins.

However if the excised interference has sufficiently large bandwidth relative to that of the desired group of signals and also has sufficient power distributed over a number of frequency bins that a relatively large number of frequency bins must be excised to maintain linear system operation then the overall power of the desired group of signals may be reduced to an extent that may make it difficult to demultiplex and decode the signal components in the remaining bins thus degrading communication performance. Thus interference that has sufficiently high levels and is distributed over a large number of frequency bins may not be adequately protected against by excision alone. The additional protection provided by forming pattern nulls in the direction of interference sources may reduce the total interference power to a level that excision may satisfactorily maintain linear system operation and user signal levels. In this case system users sufficiently angularly separated from the interference source can still communicate but users in the angular proximity of the interference source may not have sufficient signal power to communicate. The combination of spectral filtering by excision and spatial filtering by pattern nulls jointly may provide significant protection from interference.

Additionally note that CDMA is only one example of a technique that may be used to multiplex a group of signals with one another in a broad bandwidth manner from which interference may be excised using interference reduction system illustrated in and method illustrated in . Another such technique is FDMA which as mentioned above assigns different signals in the group to different portions of the spectrum than one another. illustrate exemplary signals that may be generated using interference reduction system illustrated in and method illustrated in to excise interference from an FDMA signal.

Specifically illustrates exemplary FDMA signal portions of which may be present in first and second beams received by antenna reflector . FDMA signal within the first beam may include several different portions a i that vary relative to one another over time and differ from one another depending on the particular power level for each signal within the frequency bins. Signal also may include interference as denoted by higher power level portion f.

In addition some of the frequency bins of a set of bins may be unpopulated with signal components and be occupied by only noise components that have no communication value. The example in includes desired FDMA signal components in bins B D F G I K L and N and may or may not include desired signal components in bins J and M that are masked by interference. Bins A C E and H illustrated in contain noise components but substantially no desired FDMA signal components and thus are denoted as empty bins. The distribution of signal components is illustrated for a given instant of time and varies with operation.

FDMA based systems may provide communications to a number of users through a transponder architecture and the illustration in depicts the distribution within the transponder s IF intermediate frequency bandwidth. Individual users may receive the entire signal collection communicated by the transponder and select the pre assigned frequency slot s to receive the communications intended for their own use. As discussed above the transponder s transmitter preferably remains linear and if high level interference is not excised the transmitter power output may be increased to remain linear for the highest anticipated interference level thus incurring a significant increase in power consumption. In cases where interference protection is desired frequency hopped spread spectrum techniques may be used where the carrier frequency is hopped in a pseudo random pattern known to the transponder s transmitter and system users but not to the interference source. In such cases the interference source may dilute its resources by distributing the interference over the wider spread spectrum bandwidth or cover a limited portion of that bandwidth and interfere with user communications only part of the time. The exemplary distribution in the set of frequency bins illustrated in again pertains for an instant of time and preferably covers the hop bandwidth and interference at other times may be outside the hop bandwidth because the pseudo random hopping sequence is unknown to the interference source. The degradation to system users when the interference coincides with the hopped bandwidth may be mitigated by error correction coding and interleaving as is known in the art.

As described further above with reference to and A power analysis circuit may obtain the collective power of the spectral bins compare that power level to a predefined threshold and if the collective power exceeds that predefined threshold dynamically establish an interference threshold to determine potential frequency bins having sufficient power to result in nonlinear operation. Thus in the illustrative example in frequency bin M containing relatively strong interference at a particular instant of time e.g. having a power level greater than dynamically defined threshold would be excised while frequency bin J having a power level less than the dynamically defined threshold would not be excised. As in the spectral information in the signal collection illustrated in is a digital bit stream and the power levels in the set of frequency bins is used for illustration purposes.

Optionally additional benefits may be obtained by excising certain spectral bins in addition to those that exceed dynamically defined threshold . For example turning back to it may be seen that the power levels of bins B D F G and I N are greater than empty bin threshold which designates a power level below which a bin may be considered to carry insufficient information to distinguish and thus is empty . Empty bin threshold may be defined for example based on a priori knowledge about the system noise level and the variance of its value. That is each of bins B D F G and I N has sufficient power as to permit communications noting of course that bin M also includes high power interference . By comparison bins A C E and H have power levels that are below empty bin threshold and may be excised by setting their values to zero such as illustrated in resulting in modified bins A C E and H . After excision of the high level interference and empty bins that have no communication value the overall quantization level of the desired group of signals may be reduced allowing communication of the useful information content thereof.

Thus method illustrated in optionally includes steps of comparing the power levels of the spectral bins of a set to an empty bin threshold and excising any bins having power levels that are lower than that threshold. Such steps may be executed e.g. using a comparator to compare the bins power levels to a threshold stored in a suitable storage medium and to excise from the set of bins any bins having power levels that are lower than that threshold. Such comparator and storage medium may be included in system illustrated in e.g. by providing dedicated circuitry configured to provide the above described functionality or by providing a suitably programmed FPGA ASIC or computer such as described above with reference to .

Following excision from the set of any spectral bins having power levels that exceed dynamically defined threshold and optionally of any spectral bins having power levels that are less than empty bin threshold as well as optionally identifying bins having power levels that are higher or lower than desired user power level as well as combining the first and second sets of bins in such a manner as to form a null in the pattern of the first and second beams that is aligned with the angular location of interference an inverse Fourier transform may be performed on the combined remaining spectral bins so as to obtain a digitized group of signals less any signal contributions and interference that was in the excised bins step of . An iFFT circuit such as described above with reference to may be employed to perform such an inverse Fourier transformation and may provide the output of such transformation to demodulator s . However the power levels of interference portion M and the empty bins A C E and H illustrated in which have no communication value have been reduced significantly relative to their power levels in . The overall quantization level of the remaining group of signals including empty bins and remaining interference is significantly lower than in and preferably is within the linear range of demodulator s . As such interference reduction system may process the desired group of signals and any remaining interference which may be of a sufficiently low level as to inhibit distortion of the desired group of signals during amplification.

Directional interference further may be excluded by forming a null in the pattern of the first and second beams such as provided herein.

The signals of the group then may be distinguished from one another e.g. demultiplexed using a priori knowledge of the spectral regions to which each of the signals has been assigned. Receiver s power requirements for performing such processing may be significantly reduced relative to those for processing otherwise similar signals from which interference had not been excised particularly in transponder architectures.

As compared to the CDMA example described above with reference to in which excising bins from a set of bins resulted in an overall reduction in CDMA signal strength but without loss of information it should be noted that excising interference containing bins in FDMA based signals also may excise any desired signals assigned to spectral regions that fall within the excised bins. However in such bins the interference may be sufficiently strong that even without excision it may not necessarily be possible to obtain information from the desired signals and as such the excision may not necessarily reduce the amount of information that practicably may be obtained from the group of signals. Analogously as in the CDMA case the combination of frequency hopping spread spectrum and interleaving protection in FDMA may limit the effectiveness of interference this combination may be effective only when the system has a linear response. Additional interference protection can also be obtained by forming pattern nulls in the direction of interference. Analogously as in the CDMA case the interference reduction resulting from antenna pattern nulls can reduce the number of excised frequency bins needed to maintain linear system operation. Additionally communication to users in close proximity to interference sources may be degraded by the loss in signal power resulting from the pattern null. The tolerable interference level may be based on the error correction coding and interleaving commonly practiced in the art.

Note that the operation of interference reduction system illustrated in e.g. and the implementation of method illustrated in to produce signals as exemplified in and A C and nulls such as exemplified in preferably occurs in real time. That is the components of interference reduction system preferably reduce interference with broad bandwidth signals as those signals arrive based on the relative power levels of the different spectral components of the signal and immediately thereafter provide the resulting signals to demodulator s for processing as illustrated in or to an amplifier and transmit antenna s for transmission to a user as illustrated in . By comparison adaptive notch filters and conventional adaptive interference cancellation techniques such as mentioned above may rely on iterative spectral analysis of the interference to derive the adaptive filter s weighting coefficients potentially resulting in time delays in adjusting to changes when the interference spectrum dynamically varies over time relatively rapidly or in an unpredictable manner.

Note that for FDMA based signals interference reduction system may be adapted to provide enhanced functionality in routing signals to various destinations e.g. analogously to a digital channelizer. For example communication satellites and terrestrial transponders may use multiple beams signals to increase link performance and communication throughput in communicating to an overall coverage area. In such designs frequency reuse plans wherein adjacent antenna beams are assigned a subband of the overall frequency allocation and groups of FDMA users populate those subbands may be used to reduce mutual interference between adjacent beams. The investment in digital technology in interference reduction system together with digital routers and multiplexers advantageously provides operational flexibility to provide connectivity between users distributed over the collection of antenna beams accessing interference reduction system units connected to each receiving beam to their destination beams that may or may not be in beam locations where the signal originates. However the demands for communication throughput often are not uniformly distributed over the collection of beams and users at one beam destination may desire communication to other beam destination s . For further details see U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 614 940 and 8 711 675.

While various illustrative embodiments of the invention are described above it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the invention. For example interference reduction system may be configured to work with and to be coupled to a pre existing receiver or transponder but need not necessarily be considered to be an integral part of such a receiver or transponder and indeed suitably may be used with any circuitry that would benefit from interference reduction. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

