---

title: Mobile device and chassis with contactless tags to diagnose hardware and software faults
abstract: Diagnosing faults in a hardware appliance. Information is read by a hand-held reader from one or more contactless tags associated with one or more components in a hardware appliance. One or more component faults and/or issues are identified based on the read information. A query is formed based on the identified one or more component faults and/or issues. A diagnostic database in the hand-held reader is queried, based on the formed query, and one or more query results are displayed in a ranked order on a display of the hand-held reader. In one aspect of the embodiments, the information read from the one or more contactless tags includes a pointer to a datastore in one of the one or more components. An ad hoc wireless network connection is established with the hardware appliance, and information in the datastore is downloaded over the connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619354&OS=09619354&RS=09619354
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09619354
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140910
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of storing system information on a contactless readable tag and more particularly to storing current and past system status information on a near field communication tag affixed to or located near the system.

Embodiments of the present invention disclose a method computer program product and system for diagnosing faults in a hardware appliance. Information is read by a hand held reader from one or more contactless tags associated with one or more components in a hardware appliance. One or more component faults and or issues are identified based on the read information. A query is formed based on the identified one or more component faults and or issues. A diagnostic database in the hand held reader is queried based on the formed query and one or more query results are displayed in a ranked order on a display of the hand held reader.

In one aspect of the embodiments the information read from the one or more contactless tags includes a pointer to a datastore in one of the one or more components. An ad hoc wireless network connection is established with the hardware appliance and information in the datastore is downloaded over the connection.

In another embodiment of the invention in which a hardware appliance includes one or more components a fault is detected in a component of the hardware appliance. Information associated with the component fault is written to a datastore in a component of the hardware appliance. A pointer to the datastore is written into a contactless tag of the hardware appliance. In response to detecting a power fail in the hardware appliance key information associated with the fault is written from the datastore to a tag of the hardware appliance.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed generally to a system that may quickly identify and diagnose faults and other issues in an integrated hardware environment. Many computing hardware appliances provide complex capabilities through an aggregation of hardware subsystems. The hardware subsystems of these appliances are often integrated within a chassis that may provide power and communication busses that couple the subsystems together. A desirable aspect of these hardware appliances may be a small form factor. However a chassis with a small form factor may present obstacles to easy access to the hardware subsystems of the chassis.

When a hardware system experiences a fault identification of the fault may be aided by LED lights on the system enclosure or on a circuit board faceplate that may display for example an error code. If a chassis contains many hardware subsystems it may be difficult to identify which functional component has experienced the fault. This may be compounded if different chassis have different physical arrangements of hardware subsystems. A typical approach is to attach labels with serial numbers and or bar codes to the subsystem enclosure or faceplate. However this may require a technician responding to a fault to look up the serial number in paper or softcopy documentation. In many facilities that may house the hardware appliance cameras may not be allowed which may restrict the use of certain bar code readers.

In various embodiments of the invention a system to identify and diagnose hardware subsystem faults and or other issues is described that takes advantage of near field communication NFC technology. In one embodiment an NFC tag may be physically attached to a subsystem component at a location that may be easily accessible by a technician. The NFC tag may be connected for example by a communication bus to a processor of the component. When a fault occurs in the component the processor may write information into the memory of the tag via for example the communication bus that can assist the technician in identifying the component and in determining and diagnosing the fault. In one embodiment information specific to the fault may be written to a datastore of the component and a pointer to the location of the datastore is written to the tag. When a tag reader reads the component tag an alternate communication link for example Bluetooth or another wireless protocol may be established between the tag reader and the component and the tag reader may download the fault information from the datastore at the address read from the tag.

In another embodiment if a power fail is detected and the tag contains fault information that has not yet been read the component may write key fault information into the tag. In this manner even though the component may not have power key information to assist with fault diagnosis may still be read from the tag by the tag reader. In another embodiment a bank of NFC tags on the appliance chassis for example on an NFC tag panel may be accessible to a tag reader. In one aspect each tag may be associated with a particular component. In another aspect the bank of tags may be considered to be an extended datastore associated with the hardware appliance and may be managed by a tag bank controller. In this aspect for example a directory may be stored in a particular tag that indicates the tag of the tag bank where fault or other information associated with a specific component has been written.

After fault information and in certain embodiments other status and performance information from all components has been read from the NFC tags by the tag reader the information is used to for example query a diagnostic database on the tag reader to present to a technician one of more diagnoses and or solutions to address the component fault s .

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the figures. is a functional schematic diagram of an NFC tag in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention an NFC tag is used to store information that may be read by an NFC reader that may assist in diagnosing a system or subsystem fault. NFC technology is generally characterized by its ability to support contactless communication between a tag and a reader. Here contactless means that a galvanic connection between the tag and reader is not required. Another characteristic of NFC technology is that the maximum range of a typical NFC reader is about 4 cm. Although embodiments of the invention described herein make use of NFC technology those of skill in the art will recognize that other current and or future contactless tag technologies may be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

Exemplary NFC tag includes control module and tag antenna . Control module includes control logic module non volatile memory serial interface and RF interface .

Control logic module controls the overall functions of NFC tag . In an exemplary embodiment NFC tag operates in accordance with a set of specifications and or standards. For example the specifications and or standards may include European Computer Manufacturers Association ECMA standards 340 and 352 Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol parts 1 and 2 respectively International Organization for Standardization International Electrotechnical Commission ISO IEC 14443 1 2008 Part 1 Physical characteristics ISO IEC 14443 2 2010 Part 2 Radio frequency power and signal interface ISO IEC 14443 3 2011 Part 3 Initialization and anticollision and ISO IEC 14443 4 2008 Part 4 Transmission protocol. In addition to these standards other organizations for example the NFC Forum have established accepted standards further defining NFC architecture interoperability devices and protocols. In addition to these standards various organizations have developed application programming interfaces APIs to standardize the use of and allow easier integration of NFC based applications on various platforms such as Android and iOS platforms.

Non volatile memory is a datastore for storing information that may be read by an NFC reader. Typically non volatile memory has a capacity in the range of 96 bytes to about 32 Kbytes although much larger capacities may be possible. Serial interface interfaces non volatile memory to an external system bus and allows data from a computing device connected to the system bus to write data to the memory via the bus and serial interface module.

With regard to user data stored in non volatile memory there are very few restrictions. Various standards specifications and APIs allow for easy reading and writing of common data types for example URLs. However those of skill in the art will recognize that custom data in many different formats may be read from and written to an NFC tag.

RF interface controls the modulation of tag antenna by which the antenna transmits data stored in non volatile memory . Generally RF interface detects when a sufficient induced voltage in tag antenna has been caused by impinging radio frequency electromagnetic waves from for example an NFC reader. RF interface under the control of control logic module then modulates the induced voltage in tag antenna as a means for transmitting data stored in non volatile memory to for example the NFC reader. Tag antenna typically is a loop antenna on a dielectric backing that is tuned to a particular frequency defined in a set of standards. For NFC technology the current standard frequency is 13.56 MHz.

In an exemplary embodiment NFC reader includes one or more processors one or more computer readable RAMs one or more computer readable ROMs and one or more computer readable storage media on one or more buses . One or more operating systems one or more apps or programs and data are stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by one or more of the processors via one or more of the RAMs which typically include cache memory . In the illustrated embodiment each of the computer readable storage media is a semiconductor storage device such as ROM EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that can store a computer program and digital information. Alternatively one or more of the computer readable storage media is a magnetic disk storage device of an internal hard drive.

NFC reader may also include a read write R W interface for example a USB port to read from and write to external computing devices. The apps and programs and the data can be stored on the external computing devices read via the R W interface and loaded onto the computer readable storage media .

NFC reader may also include a network adapter or interface such as a TCP IP adapter card or wireless communication adapter such as a 4G wireless communication adapter using OFDMA technology Bluetooth WiFi etc. . The apps and programs and the data can be downloaded to NFC reader from an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network or a wireless network and network adapter or interface . From the network adapter or interface the apps and programs and the data may be loaded into computer readable storage media .

NFC reader may also include a touch screen sensors for example touch screen sensors and magnetically sensitive circuits NFC R W transceiver and NFC antenna and device drivers to interface to touch screen for imaging to sensors for pressure sensing of alphanumeric character entry and user selections and for detecting magnetic flux and polarity and to NFC R W transceiver . The device drivers R W interface and network adapter or interface may comprise hardware and software stored in computer readable storage media and or ROM .

It should be appreciated that provides only an illustration of one NFC reader implementation and does not imply any limitations with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environment may be made.

In an exemplary embodiment NFC reader operates according to a set of standards and or specifications for example the set of standards and specifications described above in relation to the operation of NFC tag . Apps and programs include program logic for interacting with NFC tag . At the lower layers this interaction may be controlled by APIs from a standardized library such as an API library directed to an Android or iOS platform. In simplified exemplary operation NFC reader is brought within the operational range of NFC tag . NFC tag responds to a continuous discover message transmitted by a modulated signal from NFC antenna by for example waking up and transmitting its unique tag identifier UID stored in for example non volatile memory . When the UID of NFC tag has been received by NFC reader data that may reside in non volatile memory of the tag may be read by the NFC reader and the NFC reader may transmit data to store in the non volatile memory of the tag.

As mentioned above in one embodiment a bank of NFC tags on the appliance chassis for example on an NFC tag panel may be accessible to a tag reader. See for example NFC tag panel . In this physical arrangement NFC reader may receive simultaneous responses from more than one tag in response to the discover message transmitted by the reader. Those of skill in the art will recognize that anti collision routines may be incorporated into the apps and programs used by NFC reader to limit transceiver operations to a particular NFC tag at a time. For example a list of responding tags may be displayed by the reader allowing selection of a particular tag. In another embodiment certain information may be read from each responding tag for example component identification and status information which may be displayed by the reader allowing selection of a particular tag.

Additional functionality at the application level is described below in relation to for processing of data read by NFC reader from non volatile memory of an NFC tag .

Each hardware component may contain a system control module and one or more subcomponents represented by subcomponents that may all be interconnected over a component bus which may be coupled to chassis power and communication bus .

Each component also includes one or more NFC tags which may be coupled to system control module and subcomponents over component bus . As described above NFC tag may connect to component bus via a serial interface such as serial interface .

In an exemplary embodiment a system control module may write information to the non volatile memory of the NFC tag for example non volatile memory associated with the component via the component bus and for example serial interface .

In this embodiment rather than having an NFC tag attached to each component a bank of NFC tags is attached for example to an NFC tag panel on chassis . The NFC tags may be accessible to each component via component buses and chassis power and communication bus . In one aspect one or more components have one to one correspondences with one or more corresponding NFC tags . That is each of the one or more components is associated with its own unshared NFC tag . In an exemplary embodiment each component has a one to one correspondence with a corresponding NFC tag .

In another aspect the bank of NFC tags may be operated as a single storage system. For example the non volatile memory of all NFC tags may be treated as a distributed datastore. For example a control component not shown may control the specific tag and location in the tag into which data is written. A particular tag for example the first tag on NFC tag panel may contain a directory of information written to the distributed datastore and would be read first by an NFC reader. Specific implementation details such as whether to allow information to span more than one tag and whether to include defragmentation functionality may be treated as design decisions based on such factors as the characteristics of each NFC tag .

In another aspect the bank of NFC tags may be operated to include a combination of NFC tags having one to one correspondences with components and one or more tags operated individually and or for example in groups of two or more operated as a distributed datastore treated as storage not dedicated to a single component.

In an exemplary embodiment a system control module may write information to the non volatile memory of an NFC tag for example non volatile memory associated with the component via the component bus the chassis power and communication bus and for example serial interface . In another embodiment a system control module may transmit information to write to an NFC tag to a control component not shown associated with the bank of tags . The control component would control the specific location in the extended tag storage into which data is written.

If a fault is detected step via for example a system interrupt the system control module may write information associated with the fault to a datastore of the component step . The datastore may reside for example on a computer readable storage media . The information may include for example PSW and other register contents dumps of certain locations in program and system memory specific codes identifying the fault etc. A pointer to the datastore location may be written to the tag s associated with the component step .

If the fault is not fatal to the component step N branch program or other execution may continue on the component and status information may continue to be periodically written to the tag s associated with the component step . If the fault is fatal to the continuing program or other execution of component step Y branch this processing may end.

If the component is in an operational state the information associated with the fault stored in the NFC tag may be a pointer to a location in a datastore containing specific fault information. In this embodiment the NFC tag reader application on NFC reader for example an app or program may for example initiate and establish a Bluetooth WiFi or other ad hoc or infrastructure based wireless connection with the component or with the hardware appliance and download the information in the component datastore to which the pointer in NFC tag refers.

If the component is not in an operational state for example as the result of a fatal fault or a loss of power NFC tags may contain certain key fault information rather than pointers to a datastore. In this embodiment NFC tag reader may read fault and other information directly from NFC tags .

In certain embodiments information written to NFC tags may be a combination of fault information and pointers to datastores on components that may also contain fault information. The combination may be per NFC tag or within an NFC tag.

When information from a tag has been read NFC reader may write to the tag to set a status indicator for example one or more bits to indicate that information has been read from the tag step .

After information from one or more tags has been read by NFC reader an app or program on NFC reader may identify specific component and or hardware appliance information and specific faults and or other issues from the information step . In one embodiment NFC reader reads specific fault information associated with a component from one or more NFC tags as well as status performance and other information for some or all components that may be written to the NFC tags. Based on this information the app or program on NFC reader forms a query step . The query may be for example keyword based for example the fault codes a hash based query based on the combination of fault and other status and performance information read by NFC reader etc. step .

After the query has been formed a diagnostic database residing for example on computer readable storage media of NFC reader as data may be queried step . The query results may then be displayed for example on touch screen in a ranked order step .

A component may include one or more processors one or more computer readable RAMs one or more computer readable ROMs one or more computer readable storage media device drivers read write drive or interface network adapter or interface all interconnected over a communications fabric . Communications fabric may be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system.

One or more operating systems and one or more application programs are stored on one or more of the computer readable storage media for execution by one or more of the processors via one or more of the respective RAMs which typically include cache memory . In the illustrated embodiment each of the computer readable storage media may be a magnetic disk storage device of an internal hard drive CD ROM DVD memory stick magnetic tape magnetic disk optical disk a semiconductor storage device such as RAM ROM EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage device that can store a computer program and digital information.

A component may also include a R W drive or interface to read from and write to one or more portable computer readable storage media . Application programs on a component may be stored on one or more of the portable computer readable storage media read via the respective R W drive or interface and loaded into the respective computer readable storage media .

A component may also include a network adapter or interface such as a TCP IP adapter card Bluetooth WiFi or other wireless communication adapter such as a 4G wireless communication adapter using OFDMA technology . Application programs on a component may be downloaded to the computing device from an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network or other wide area network or wireless network and network adapter or interface . From the network adapter or interface the programs may be loaded onto computer readable storage media . The network may comprise copper wires optical fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers.

A component may also include a display screen a keyboard or keypad and a computer mouse or touchpad . Device drivers interface to display screen for imaging to keyboard or keypad to computer mouse or touchpad and or to display screen for pressure sensing of alphanumeric character entry and user selections. The device drivers R W drive or interface and network adapter or interface may comprise hardware and software stored on computer readable storage media and or ROM .

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

Embodiments of the present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Based on the foregoing a computer system method and computer program product have been disclosed. However numerous modifications and substitutions can be made without deviating from the scope of the present invention. Therefore the present invention has been disclosed by way of example and not limitation.

