---

title: Estimating porosity or permeability in a region of interest
abstract: Disclosed herein are implementations of various technologies for a method for estimating porosity or permeability in a region of interest. The method may receive chemical measurements for the region of interest. The chemical measurements may include an amount of silicon, aluminum, potassium and iron in the region of interest. The method may determine an amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest using the chemical measurements. The method may determine grain density of the region of interest based on the amount of biogenic silica. The method may determine the porosity or permeability in the region of interest based on the grain density.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09459195&OS=09459195&RS=09459195
owner: SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
number: 09459195
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140702
---
This section is intended to provide background information to facilitate a better understanding of various technologies described herein. As the section s title implies this is a discussion of related art. That such art is related in no way implies that it is prior art. The related art may or may not be prior art. It should therefore be understood that the statements in this section are to be read in this light and applicant neither concedes nor acquiesces to the position that any given reference is prior art or analogous prior art.

In order to facilitate the recovery of hydrocarbons from oil and gas wells the subterranean formations surrounding such wells can be hydraulically fractured. Hydraulic fracturing has become a valuable technique to create cracks in subsurface formations that allow hydrocarbons to move toward the well. Hydraulic fractures may extend away from the wellbore hundreds of feet in two opposing directions according to the natural stresses within the formation. Under certain circumstances they may form a complex fracture network. Complex fracture networks can include induced hydraulic fractures and natural fractures which may or may not intersect along multiple azimuths in multiple planes and directions and in multiple regions

Disclosed herein are implementations of various technologies for a method for estimating porosity or permeability in a region of interest. The method may receive chemical measurements for the region of interest. The chemical measurements may include an amount of silicon aluminum potassium and iron in the region of interest. The method may determine an amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest using the chemical measurements. The method may determine grain density of the region of interest based on the amount of biogenic silica. The method may determine the porosity or permeability in the region of interest based on the grain density.

In some implementations the region of interest may include a predetermined depth in a wellbore. The region of interest may include locations in a shale. The method may determine a first ratio between the amount of silicon in the region of interest and the sum of the amounts of aluminum potassium and silicon in the region of interest. The method may determine a second ratio between the amount of iron in the region of interest and a sum of iron and silicon in the region of interest. The method may generate a plot of the first ratio with the second ratio. The plot may include the first ratio plotted on the y axis of the plot and the second ratio plotted on the x axis of the plot. The method may determine a threshold line on the plot that represents an approximate minimum amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest. The method may determine a threshold line on the plot that represents an approximate maximum amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest. The plot may include Cartesian coordinates. The method may generate a stimulation plan using the determined porosity or permeability. The stimulation plan may include a fluid viscosity of a fracturing fluid or a rate of injection of a fracturing fluid. The method may determine the presence of hydrocarbon deposits in the region of interest using the determined porosity or determined permeability.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or most disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

Reference will now be made in detail to various implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and figures. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the claimed invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the claimed invention.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first object or block could be termed a second object or block and similarly a second object or block could be termed a first object or block without departing from the scope of the invention. The first object or block and the second object or block are both objects or blocks respectively but they are not to be considered the same object or block.

The terminology used in the description herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations and is not intended to limit the claimed invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers blocks operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers blocks operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

Various techniques described herein are directed to determining the amount of biogenic silica in a region of interest and using the determined biogenic silica in various implementations. describes a method of estimating porosity or permeability of the region of interest. The section titled OIL OPERATION below generally describes hydrocarbon exploration and production.

Computer facilities may be positioned at various locations about the oilfield e.g. the surface unit and or at remote locations. Surface unit may be used to communicate with the drilling tools and or offsite operations as well as with other surface or downhole sensors. Surface unit is capable of communicating with the drilling tools to send commands to the drilling tools and to receive data therefrom. Surface unit may also collect data generated during the drilling operation and produce data output which may then be stored or transmitted.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various oilfield operations as described previously. As shown sensor S is positioned in one or more locations in the drilling tools and or at rig to measure drilling parameters such as weight on bit torque on bit pressures temperatures flow rates compositions rotary speed and or other parameters of the field operation. Sensors S may also be positioned in one or more locations in the circulating system.

Drilling tools . may include a bottom hole assembly BHA not shown generally referenced near the drill bit e.g. within several drill collar lengths from the drill bit . The bottom hole assembly includes capabilities for measuring processing and storing information as well as communicating with surface unit . The bottom hole assembly further includes drill collars for performing various other measurement functions.

The bottom hole assembly may include a communication subassembly that communicates with surface unit . The communication subassembly is adapted to send signals to and receive signals from the surface using a communications channel such as mud pulse telemetry electro magnetic telemetry or wired drill pipe communications. The communication subassembly may include for example a transmitter that generates a signal such as an acoustic or electromagnetic signal which is representative of the measured drilling parameters. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a variety of telemetry systems may be employed such as wired drill pipe electromagnetic or other known telemetry systems.

The wellbore may be drilled according to a drilling plan that is established prior to drilling. The drilling plan may set forth equipment pressures trajectories and or other parameters that define the drilling process for the wellsite. The drilling operation may then be performed according to the drilling plan. However as information is gathered the drilling operation may need to deviate from the drilling plan. Additionally as drilling or other operations are performed the subsurface conditions may change. The earth model may also need adjustment as new information is collected.

The data gathered by sensors S may be collected by surface unit and or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by sensors S may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in one or more databases and or transmitted on or offsite. The data may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be stored in separate databases or combined into a single database.

Surface unit may include transceiver to allow communications between surface unit and various portions of the oilfield or other locations. Surface unit may also be provided with or functionally connected to one or more controllers not shown for actuating mechanisms at oilfield . Surface unit may then send command signals to oilfield in response to data received. Surface unit may receive commands via transceiver or may itself execute commands to the controller. A processor may be provided to analyze the data locally or remotely make the decisions and or actuate the controller. In this manner oilfield may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected. This technique may be used to optimize portions of the field operation such as controlling drilling weight on bit pump rates or other parameters. These adjustments may be made automatically based on computer protocol and or manually by an operator. In some cases well plans may be adjusted to select optimum operating conditions or to avoid problems.

Wireline tool . may be operatively connected to for example geophones and a computer . of a seismic truck . of . Wireline tool . may also provide data to surface unit . Surface unit may collect data generated during the wireline operation and may produce data output that may be stored or transmitted. Wireline tool . may be positioned at various depths in the wellbore to provide a survey or other information relating to the subterranean formation .

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown sensor S is positioned in wireline tool . to measure downhole parameters which relate to for example porosity permeability fluid composition and or other parameters of the field operation.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown the sensor S may be positioned in production tool . or associated equipment such as Christmas tree gathering network surface facility and or the production facility to measure fluid parameters such as fluid composition flow rates pressures temperatures and or other parameters of the production operation.

Production may also include injection wells for added recovery. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite s .

While illustrate tools used to measure properties of an oilfield it will be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with non oilfield operations such as gas fields mines aquifers storage or other subterranean facilities. Also while certain data acquisition tools are depicted it will be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing parameters such as seismic two way travel time density resistivity production rate etc. of the subterranean formation and or its geological formations may be used. Various sensors S may be located at various positions along the wellbore and or the monitoring tools to collect and or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.

The field configurations of are intended to provide a brief description of an example of a field usable with oilfield application frameworks. Part of or the complete oilfield may be on land water and or sea. Also while a single field measured at a single location is depicted oilfield applications may be utilized with any combination of one or more oilfields one or more processing facilities and one or more wellsites.

Data plots . . are examples of static data plots that may be generated by data acquisition tools . . respectively however it should be understood that data plots . . may also be data plots that are updated in real time. These measurements may be analyzed to better define the properties of the formation s and or determine the accuracy of the measurements and or for checking for errors. The plots of each of the respective measurements may be aligned and scaled for comparison and verification of the properties.

Static data plot . is a seismic two way response over a period of time. Static plot . is core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation . The core sample may be used to provide data such as a graph of the density porosity permeability or some other physical property of the core sample over the length of the core. Tests for density and viscosity may be performed on the fluids in the core at varying pressures and temperatures. Static data plot . is a logging trace that provides a resistivity or other measurement of the formation at various depths.

A production decline curve or graph . is a dynamic data plot of the fluid flow rate over time. The production decline curve provides the production rate as a function of time. As the fluid flows through the wellbore measurements are taken of fluid properties such as flow rates pressures composition etc.

Other data may also be collected such as historical data user inputs economic information and or other measurement data and other parameters of interest. As described below the static and dynamic measurements may be analyzed and used to generate models of the subterranean formation to determine characteristics thereof. Similar measurements may also be used to measure changes in formation aspects over time.

The subterranean structure has a plurality of geological formations . .. As shown this structure has several formations or layers including a shale layer . a carbonate layer . a shale layer . and a sand layer .. A fault extends through the shale layer . and the carbonate layer .. The static data acquisition tools are adapted to take measurements and detect characteristics of the formations.

While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures is depicted it will be appreciated that oilfield may contain a variety of geological structures and or formations sometimes having extreme complexity. In some locations typically below the water line fluid may occupy pore spaces of the formations. Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formations and or its geological features. While each acquisition tool is shown as being in specific locations in oilfield it will be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more locations across one or more fields or other locations for comparison and or analysis.

The data collected from various sources such as the data acquisition tools of may then be processed and or evaluated. Typically seismic data displayed in static data plot . from data acquisition tool . is used by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formations and features. The core data shown in static plot . and or log data from well log . are typically used by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the subterranean formation. The production data from graph . is typically used by the reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics. The data analyzed by the geologist geophysicist and the reservoir engineer may be analyzed using modeling techniques.

Each wellsite has equipment that forms wellbore into the earth. The wellbores extend through subterranean formations including reservoirs . These reservoirs contain fluids such as hydrocarbons. The wellsites draw fluid from the reservoirs and pass them to the processing facilities via surface networks . The surface networks have tubing and control mechanisms for controlling the flow of fluids from the wellsite to processing facility .

Attention is now directed to that depicts an embodiment of seismic system in which a plurality of tow vessels is employed to enable seismic profiling e.g. three dimensional vertical seismic profiling or rig offset vertical seismic profiling. In a marine system is illustrated as including a rig a plurality of vessels and one or more acoustic receivers . Although a marine system is illustrated other embodiments of the disclosure may not be limited to this example. A person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that teachings of the disclosure may be used in land or offshore systems. However offshore systems are described herein to simplify the disclosure and to facilitate explanation.

Although two vessels are illustrated in a single vessel with multiple source arrays or multiple vessels each with single or multiple sources may be used. In some applications at least one source source array may be located on the rig as represented by the rig source in . As the vessels travel on predetermined or systematic paths their locations may be recorded through the use of navigation system . In some cases the navigation system utilizes a global positioning system GPS to record the position speed direction and other parameters of the tow vessels .

As illustrated the global positioning system may utilize or work in cooperation with satellites which operate on a suitable communication protocol e.g. VSAT communications. The VSAT communications may be used among other things to supplement VHF and UHF communications. The GPS information can be independent of the VSAT communications and may be input to processing system or other suitable processors to predict the future movement and position of the vessels based on real time information. In addition to predicting future movements the processing system also can be utilized to provide directions and coordinates as well as to determine initial shot times as described above. Control system effectively utilizes processing system in cooperation with source controller and synchronization unit to synchronize the sources with the downhole data acquisition system .

As illustrated the one or more vessels each tow one or more acoustic sources source arrays . The source arrays include one or more seismic signal generators e.g. air guns configured to create a seismic sonic disturbance. In the embodiment illustrated the tow vessels comprise a master source vessel Vessel A and a slave source vessel Vessel B . However other numbers and arrangements of tow vessels may be employed to accommodate the parameters of a given seismic profiling application. For example one source may be mounted at rig see or at another suitable location and both vessels may serve as slave vessels with respect to the rig source or with respect to a source at another location.

However a variety of source arrangements and implementations may be provided as desired for a given application. When utilizing dithered timing between the sources for example the master and slave locations of the sources can be adjusted according to the parameters of the specific seismic profiling application. In some applications one of the source vessels e.g. source vessel A in may serve as the master source vessel while the other source vessel serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. However an alternate source vessel e.g. source vessel B in may serve as the master source vessel while the other source vessel serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing.

Similarly the rig source may serve as the master source while one of the source vessels e.g. vessel A serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. The rig source also may serve as the master source while the other source vessel e.g. vessel B serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. In some applications the rig source may serve as the master source while both of the source vessels serve as slave source vessels each with dithered firings. These and other arrangements may be used in achieving the desired synchronization of sources with the downhole acquisition system .

The acoustic receivers of data acquisition system may be deployed in borehole via a variety of delivery systems such as wireline delivery systems slickline delivery systems and other suitable delivery systems. Although a single acoustic receiver could be used in the borehole the illustrated embodiment comprises a plurality of receivers that may be located in a variety of positions and orientations. The acoustic receivers may be configured for sonic and or seismic reception. Additionally the acoustic receivers may be communicatively coupled with processing equipment located downhole. By way of example processing equipment may comprise a telemetry system for transmitting data from acoustic receivers to additional processing equipment located at the surface e.g. on the rig and or vessels .

Depending on the specifics of a given data communication system examples of surface processing equipment may comprise a radio repeater an acquisition and logging unit and a variety of other and or additional signal transfer components and signal processing components. The radio repeater along with other components of processing equipment may be used to communicate signals e.g. UHF and or VHF signals between vessels and rig and to enable further communication with downhole data acquisition system .

It should be noted the UHF and VHF signals can be used to supplement each other. In general the UHF band supports a higher data rate throughput but can be susceptible to obstructions and has less range. The VHF band is less susceptible to obstructions and has increased radio range but its data rate throughput is lower. In for example the VHF communications are illustrated as punching through an obstruction in the form of a production platform.

In some applications the acoustic receivers are coupled to surface processing equipment via a hardwired connection. In other embodiments wireless or optical connections may be employed. In still other embodiments combinations of coupling techniques may be employed to relay information received downhole via the acoustic receivers to an operator and or control system e.g. control system located at least in part at the surface.

In addition to providing raw or processed data uphole to the surface the coupling system e.g. downhole processing equipment and surface processing equipment may be designed to transmit data or instructions downhole to the acoustic receivers . For example the surface processing equipment may comprise synchronization unit which coordinates the firing of sources e.g. dithered delayed source arrays with the acoustic receivers located in borehole . According to one embodiment the synchronization unit uses coordinated universal time to ensure accurate timing. In some cases the coordinated universal time system is employed in cooperation with global positioning system to obtain UTC data from the GPS receivers of GPS system .

As an example the overall seismic system may employ various arrangements of sources on vessels and or rig with each location having at least one source source array to generate acoustic source signals. The acoustic receivers of downhole acquisition system are configured to receive the source signals at least some of which are reflected off a reflection boundary located beneath a sea bottom . The acoustic receivers generate data streams that are relayed uphole to a suitable processing system e.g. processing system via downhole telemetry processing equipment .

While the acoustic receivers generate data streams the navigation system determines a real time speed position and direction of each vessel and also estimates initial shot times accomplished via signal generators of the appropriate source arrays . The source controller may be part of surface processing equipment located on rig on vessels or at other suitable locations and is designed to control firing of the acoustic source signals so that the timing of an additional shot time e.g. a shot time via slave vessel is based on the initial shot time e.g. a shot time via master vessel plus a dither value.

The synchronization unit of for example surface processing equipment coordinates the firing of dithered acoustic signals with recording of acoustic signals by the downhole acquisition system . Processor system is configured to separate a data stream of the initial shot and a data stream of the additional shot via the coherency filter. As discussed above however other embodiments may employ pure simultaneous acquisition and or may not perform separation of the data streams. In such cases the dither is effectively zero.

After an initial shot time at T 0 T is determined subsequent firings of acoustic source arrays may be offset by a dither. The dithers can be positive or negative and sometimes are created as pre defined random delays. Use of dithers facilitates the separation of simultaneous or near simultaneous data sets to simplify the data processing. The ability to have the acoustic source arrays fire in simultaneous or near simultaneous patterns reduces the overall amount of time used for three dimensional vertical seismic profiling source acquisition. This in turn reduces rig time. As a result the overall cost of the seismic operation is reduced rendering the data intensive process much more accessible.

If the acoustic source arrays used in the seismic data acquisition are widely separated the difference in move outs across the acoustic receiver array of the wave fields generated by the acoustic sources can be sufficient to obtain a clean data image via processing the data without further special considerations. However even when the acoustic sources are substantially co located in time data acquired by any of the methods involving dithering of the firing times of the individual sources described herein can be processed to a formation image leaving hardly any artifacts in the final image. This is accomplished by taking advantage of the incoherence of the data generated by one acoustic source when seen in the reference time of the other acoustic source .

Stimulation operations for conventional and unconventional reservoirs may be performed based on knowledge of reservoirs. For instance a shale reservoir may be an example of an unconventional reservoir. Shale reservoirs may have various types of lithology and include formations directed to calcareous dolostone or biogenic silica. In a biogenic silica shale two types of silicon dioxide SiO2 may be present Silica dioxide SiO and hydrated forms of Silica Dioxide SiO nHO e.g. detrital forms of silica and biogenic silica respectively. Detrital silica may describe silica that is rich in quartz sandstones and other detrital sediments. Biogenic silica bSi may include a chalk like fine grained siliceous sedimentary rock that originated through biogenic processes. As such biogenic silica may refer to wide variety of different compounds such as Diatomite Diatomaceous Claystone Diatomaceous Clay Diatomaceous Shale Porcellanite Porcelaneous Shale Porcelaneous Chert Chert Opal A Amorphous Silica and Opal CT Cristobalite Tridymite Silica .

Reservoir characterizations may include determining the quantities of biogenic silica and detrital silica throughout a particular reservoir. Evaluating the geochemical composition of basin deposits in the particular reservoir may be performed by separating the biogenic silica components from the detrital silica in the particular reservoir. Misidentifying rock in a particular reservoir as biogenic silica or detrital silica may result in an overestimation of hydrocarbons. As such an accurate reservoir characterization may be used in well planning identifying optimal target zones for perforation and staging designing of multiple wells e.g. spacing and orientation and geomechanical models.

At block a plurality of chemical measurements may be received for a region of interest. The received chemical measurements may be a dataset that includes one or more estimates regarding the amounts of silicon aluminum potassium and iron in the region of interest. The region of interest may be one or more predetermined depths inside a wellbore or a borehole. In one implementation the region of interest for the chemical measurements may be directed to different locations in a potential reservoir such as a biogenic shale or another type of shale.

Further the chemical measurements may include various weights of elements that are present in a rock specimen in the region of interest. Elemental weights may describe the fraction or percentage of a particular rock that corresponds to a particular element such as silicon aluminum potassium or iron. Potassium feldspar for example may have elemental weights directed to potassium silicon aluminum and oxygen. The elemental weights of a rock specimen may be determined using various types of spectroscopy such as pulsed neutron spectroscopy. Furthermore the chemical measurements may be recorded in a well log that notes the various elemental weights of rock at various depths inside a wellbore.

At block a first ratio may be determined between the amount of silicon and the sum of silicon aluminum and potassium for the region of interest. For instance the first ratio may be a function that may be expressed by the following equation 

At block a second ratio may be determined between the amounts of iron and the sum of silicon and iron for the region of interest. For instance the second ratio may be a function that may be expressed by the following equation 

At block the first ratio may be plotted with the second ratio as shown in that illustrates an example of a generated plot . The generated plot may describe various chemical measurements taken from a first wellbore and a second wellbore for a region of interest. A circle or square on the generated plot may represent a data point for a predetermined location inside a wellbore where chemical measurements were acquired. Based on the chemical measurements for the data points the respective circles or squares may be plotted using the first ratio from block and the second ratio from block . Using Cartesian coordinates the first ratio corresponds to the y axis of the generated plot while the second ratio corresponds to the x axis. Data points acquired from the first wellbore may be circles while data points acquired from the second wellbore may be squares.

Keeping with a minimum threshold line on the generated plot may represent the approximate minimum amount of biogenic silica found in analyzed rock. As such data points near or below the minimum threshold line may describe analyzed rock that primarily contains detrital silica. Data points that are found farther above the minimum threshold line may illustrate analyzed rock with increasing amounts of biogenic silica. Threshold lines and may represent levels of biogenic silica where the percentage of biogenic silica in the analyzed rock is at 40 or 80 respectively.

Furthermore a maximum threshold line may represent an approximate maximum amount of biogenic silica found in analyzed rock. For instance the data point near the maximum threshold line may correspond to analyzed rock with approximately 100 biogenic silica content. The threshold lines and may be determined using rock specimens from the region of interest or estimated based on the chemical measurements from block .

Returning to at block the amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest may be determined using the generated plot . For example the determined amount of biogenic silica may be an absolute number e.g. 35 of rock at a respective location or a range of values e.g. between 40 and 60 of the rock may be biogenic silica at the respective location . Based on the corresponding location of data points in the generated plot areas in the region of interest that are high or low in biogenic silica may be mapped to produce a rock matrix for the region of interest.

In another implementation the distance of the respective data point on the generated plot from the maximum threshold line or the minimum threshold line may provide an estimate of biogenic silica at that respective data point s location. For instance data point may have between 40 and 80 biogenic silica in the corresponding rock for that location. Data point that is located just below the maximum threshold line may have biogenic silica content that is close to 100 . Data point that is located below the minimum threshold line may be completely detrital silica and have no biogenic silica content present. As such may be used to determine the absence or presence of biogenic silica in various rock formations for the region of interest.

In other implementations of method the amount of biogenic silica may be determined without using a generated plot. For instance computed values for the first ratio from block the second ratio from block the minimum threshold line and or the maximum threshold line may be parameterized into a closed form expression or equation.

At block the grain density of the region of interest may be determined using the amount of biogenic silica determined at block . Biogenic silica may contribute to a low grain density to various rock formations. Opal A which is one type of biogenic silica may have a grain density of 2.08. In comparison quartz sandstone that is composed primarily of detrital silica may have a grain density of 2.65. In characterizing a reservoir estimating the amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest may provide for the separation of hydrated and or microporous biogenic silica from other forms of silica.

At block the porosity or permeability of the region of interest may be determined using the grain density determined at block . Rock porosity is the percentage of void space in rock while permeability is a measure of the ability of a porous material to allow fluid to pass through the porous material. To determine rock porosity in the region of interest the grain density from block may be used in the following equation 

Permeability for the region of interest may be determined based on the rock porosity and the volume of biogenic silica and other materials e.g. clay calcite etc. in the region of interest.

At block the porosity or the permeability from block may be used to determine the presence of hydrocarbons for region of interest. For more information regarding hydrocarbon exploration or production see the section titled OIL OPERATION above.

In one implementation a stimulation plan may be designed or generated for the region of interest based on the determined porosity or permeability from block . The stimulation plan may describe oilfield or gas operations that may be performed in advance of performing such operations at a wellsite. The stimulation plan may be used to define for example equipment and operating parameters for performing the oilfield or gas operations. Some such operating parameters may include for example perforating locations injection rate of a fracturing fluid fluid viscosity of a fracturing fluid operating pressures stimulation fluids and other parameters used in stimulation.

In some implementations a method for estimating porosity or permeability in a region of interest is provided. The method may receive chemical measurements for the region of interest. The chemical measurements may include an amount of silicon aluminum potassium and iron in the region of interest. The method may determine an amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest using the chemical measurements. The method may determine grain density of the region of interest based on the amount of biogenic silica. The method may determine the porosity or permeability of the region of interest based on the determined grain density.

In some implementations the region of interest may include a predetermined depth in a wellbore. The region of interest may include locations in a shale. The method may determine a first ratio between the amount of silicon in the region of interest and the sum of the amounts of aluminum potassium and silicon in the region of interest. The method may determine a second ratio between the amount of iron in the region of interest and a sum of iron and silicon in the region of interest. The method may generate a plot of the first ratio with the second ratio. The plot may include the first ratio plotted on the y axis of the plot and the second ratio plotted on the x axis of the plot. The method may determine a threshold line on the plot that represents an approximate minimum amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest. The method may determine a threshold line on the plot that represents an approximate maximum amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest. The plot may include Cartesian coordinates. The method may generate a stimulation plan using the determined porosity or permeability. The stimulation plan may include a fluid viscosity of a fracturing fluid or a rate of injection of a fracturing fluid. The method may determine the presence of hydrocarbon deposits in the region of interest using the determined porosity or determined permeability.

In some implementations an information processing apparatus for use in a computing system is provided and includes means for receiving chemical measurements for a region of interest. The chemical measurements may include an amount of silicon aluminum potassium and iron in the region of interest. The information processing apparatus may also have means for determining an amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest using the chemical measurements. The information processing apparatus may also have means for determining grain density of the region of interest based on the amount of biogenic silica. The information processing apparatus may also have means for determining porosity or permeability of the region of interest based on the determined grain density.

In some implementations a computing system is provided that includes at least one processor at least one memory and one or more programs stored in the at least one memory wherein the programs include instructions which when executed by the at least one processor cause the computing system to receive chemical measurements for a region of interest. The chemical measurements may include an amount of silicon aluminum potassium and iron in the region of interest. The programs may further include instructions to cause the computing system to determine an amount of biogenic silica in the region of interest using the chemical measurements. The programs may further include instructions to cause the computing system to determine grain density of the region of interest based on the amount of biogenic silica. The programs may further include instructions to cause the computing system to determine porosity or permeability of the region of interest based on the determined grain density.

In some implementations a computer readable storage medium is provided which has stored therein one or more programs the one or more programs including instructions which when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive chemical measurements for a region of interest. The chemical measurements may include an amount of silicon aluminum potassium and iron in the region of interest. The programs may further include instructions which cause the processor to determine an amount of biogenic silica using the chemical measurements. The programs may further include instructions which cause the processor to determine grain density of the region of interest based on the amount of biogenic silica. The programs may further include instructions which cause the processor to determine porosity or permeability of the region of interest based on the determined grain density.

Implementations of various technologies described herein may be operational with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the various technologies described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers smartphones smartwatches personal wearable computing systems networked with other computing systems tablet computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The various technologies described herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. While program modules may execute on a single computing system it should be appreciated that in some implementations program modules may be implemented on separate computing systems or devices adapted to communicate with one another. A program module may also be some combination of hardware and software where particular tasks performed by the program module may be done either through hardware software or both.

The various technologies described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. The distributed computing environments may span multiple continents and multiple vessels ships or boats. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory a graphics processing unit GPU and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The GPU may be a microprocessor specifically designed to manipulate and implement computer graphics. The CPU may offload work to the GPU . The GPU may have its own graphics memory and or may have access to a portion of the system memory . As with the CPU the GPU may include one or more processing units and the processing units may include one or more cores. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The computing system may also include a host adapter that connects to a storage device via a small computer system interface SCSI bus a Fiber Channel bus an eSATA bus or using any other applicable computer bus interface. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs program data and a database system . The application programs may include various mobile applications apps and other applications configured to perform various methods and techniques described herein. The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computing system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . The remote computers may be another a computer a server computer a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many of the elements describes above relative to the computing system . The remote computers may also each include application programs similar to that of the computer action function.

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a router wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The router which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are merely examples and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The network interface may also utilize remote access technologies e.g. Remote Access Service RAS Virtual Private Networking VPN Secure Socket Layer SSL Layer 2 Tunneling L2T or any other suitable protocol . These remote access technologies may be implemented in connection with the remote computers .

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations. Also the program code may execute entirely on a user s computing device partly on the user s computing device as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or a server computer.

Those with skill in the art will appreciate that any of the listed architectures features or standards discussed above with respect to the example computing system may be omitted for use with a computing system used in accordance with the various embodiments disclosed herein because technology and standards continue to evolve over time.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

