---

title: Systems and methods for analyzing document coverage
abstract: A system including a memory storing a meaning taxonomy is provided. The meaning taxonomy includes meaning loaded entities and associations between meaning loaded entities and syntactic structures. Each association links a meaning loaded entity to a syntactic structure. The system includes a processor coupled with the memory and components executable by the processor configured to receive content generated by a source, the content including syntactic structures, identify meaning loaded entities that are linked to the syntactic structures by associations, calculate a content summary indicating a level of coverage of the meaning loaded entities within the content, and provide a representation of the summary to an external entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575961&OS=09575961&RS=09575961
owner: NORTHERN LIGHT GROUP, LLC
number: 09575961
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140828
---
Portions of the material in this patent document are subject to copyright protection under the copyright laws of the United States and of other countries. The owner of the copyright rights has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the United States Patent and Trademark Office publicly available file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The copyright owner does not hereby waive any of its rights to have this patent document maintained in secrecy including without limitation its rights pursuant to 37 C.F.R. 1.14.

The technical field of this disclosure relates generally to content analysis and more specifically to semantic analysis of documents produced by one or more sources.

Conventional computerized tools for semantic analysis process large bodies of documents to identify topics discussed therein. This processing often includes parsing text stored in the documents and creating a data store that associates documents with their constituent terms and the frequency with which the constituent terms occur within the documents. From this data store conventional semantic analysis tools rank terms by frequency of occurrence and record terms that occur less frequently than others as being more important. Conventional semantic analysis tools focus on these important terms and their location within documents relative to other terms to discern the topics to which the documents are directed. Examples of processing techniques utilized within conventional semantic analysis tools include latent Dirichlet allocation and probabilistic latent semantic indexing.

Various aspects provide facilities to analyze content to determine the key foundational concepts addressed therein and summarize these concepts using easily understood metrics and visual representations. For instance according to some aspects the facilities evaluate a corpus of documents to determine which documents address one or more concepts of interest. These concepts may be for example concepts selected by a user of the facilities or concepts generated from the corpus that meet some predefined criteria e.g. concepts most frequently addressed in the corpus common concepts shared between two corpora concepts from content created by an identified source etc. . According to at least one aspect the metrics calculated to summarize these concepts include a variety of statistical metrics e.g. average sums variance standard deviation etc. . Further according to this aspect the visual representations include the calculated metrics within the context of other visual indicia that enable a user to quickly discern the domain of concepts addressed in the corpus and the level of coverage dedicated to each concept.

Other aspects provide facilities to analyze content generated from multiple distinct sources and to summarize concepts addressed in the content in a comparative fashion. For instance according to one aspect the facilities evaluate corpora of documents generated by a plurality of source entities such as individuals academic institutions corporations reporters analysts and other content sources. Within these aspects the facilities provide comparative representations of calculated metrics enabling users to easily comprehend the domain of concepts and depth of coverage given to each concept by each content source.

According to one aspect a system is provided. The system comprises a memory storing a meaning taxonomy including a plurality of meaning loaded entities and a plurality of associations between meaning loaded entities and syntactic structures each association of the plurality of associations linking at least one meaning loaded entity of the plurality of meaning loaded entities to at least one syntactic structure of a plurality of syntactic structures. The system also comprises at least one processor in data communication with the memory and one or more components executable by the at least one processor and collectively configured to receive first content generated by a first source the first content including one or more first syntactic structures identify one or more first meaning loaded entities of the plurality of meaning loaded entities that are linked to the one or more first syntactic structures by one or more first associations of the plurality of associations calculate a first content summary indicating a first level of coverage of the one or more first meaning loaded entities within the first content and provide a first representation of the first summary to an external entity.

According to one embodiment the first content includes a set of documents including the one or more syntactic structures and the first content summary includes a cardinality of the set of documents. According to one embodiment the set of documents includes at least one of white papers presentations news articles press releases and market research reports. According to one embodiment the first representation includes a radar chart presenting the cardinality.

According to one aspect the one or more components comprised by the system are collectively configured to receive second content generated by a second source the second content including one or more second syntactic structures identify one or more second meaning loaded entities of the plurality of meaning loaded entities that are linked to the one or more second syntactic structures by one or more second associations of the plurality of associations calculate a second content summary indicating a second level of coverage of the one or more second meaning loaded entities within the second content and provide a comparative representation that combines the first representation and a second representation of the second summary to the external entity.

According to one embodiment the first source and the second source are distinct entities. According to one embodiment the first content summary and the second content summary indicate a level of coverage of at least one common meaning loaded entity extracted from the first content and the second content. According to one embodiment the one or more first syntactic structures and the one or more second syntactic structures share no common syntactic structures.

According to one aspect a method implemented using a computer system including memory and at least one processor coupled to the memory is provided. The method comprises storing in the memory a meaning taxonomy including a plurality of meaning loaded entities and a plurality of associations between meaning loaded entities and syntactic a plurality of associations between meaning loaded entities and syntactic structures each association of the plurality of associations linking at least one meaning loaded entity of the plurality of meaning loaded entities to at least one syntactic structure of a plurality of syntactic structures. The method further comprises receiving first content generated by a first source the first content including one or more first syntactic structures identifying one or more first meaning loaded entities of the plurality of meaning loaded entities that are linked to the one or more first syntactic structures by one or more first associations of the plurality of associations calculating a first content summary indicating a first level of coverage of the one or more first meaning loaded entities within the first content and providing a first representation of the first summary to an external entity.

According to one embodiment receiving the first content includes receiving a set of documents including the one or more syntactic structures and calculating the first content summary includes calculating a cardinality of the set of documents. According to one embodiment receiving the set of documents includes receiving at least one of white papers presentations news articles press releases and market research reports. According to one embodiment providing the first representation includes providing a radar chart presenting the cardinality.

According to one aspect the method further comprises receiving second content generated by a second source the second content including one or more second syntactic structures identifying one or more second meaning loaded entities of the plurality of meaning loaded entities that are linked to the one or more second syntactic structures by one or more second associations of the plurality of associations calculating a second content summary indicating a second level of coverage of the one or more second meaning loaded entities within the second content and providing a comparative representation that combines the first representation and a second representation of the second summary to the external entity.

According to one embodiment calculating the second content summary includes calculating a second content summary that indicates a level of coverage of at least one common meaning loaded entity extracted from the first content and the second content. According to one embodiment identifying the one or more second meaning loaded entities includes identifying one or more second meaning loaded entities that are linked to one or more second syntactic structures that share no common syntactic structures with the one or more first syntactic structures.

According to one aspect a non transitory computer readable medium storing sequences of instruction for analyzing coverage of concepts within content is provided. The sequences of instructions include computer executable instructions that instruct at least one processor to store in a memory in data communication with the processor a meaning taxonomy including a plurality of meaning loaded entities and a plurality of associations between meaning loaded entities and syntactic structures each association of the plurality of associations linking at least one meaning loaded entity of the plurality of meaning loaded entities to at least one syntactic structure of a plurality of syntactic structures. The sequences of instructions further include computer executable instructions that instruct the at least one processor to receive first content generated by a first source the first content including one or more first syntactic structures identify one or more first meaning loaded entities of the plurality of meaning loaded entities that are linked to the one or more first syntactic structures by one or more first associations of the plurality of associations calculate a first content summary indicating a first level of coverage of the one or more first meaning loaded entities within the first content and provide a first representation of the first summary to an external entity.

According to one embodiment the first content includes a set of documents including the one or more syntactic structures and the first content summary includes a cardinality of the set of documents. According to one embodiment the set of documents includes at least one of white papers presentations news articles press releases and market research reports. According to one embodiment the first representation includes a radar chart presenting the cardinality.

According to one aspect the instructions further instruct the at least one processor to receive second content generated by a second source the second content including one or more second syntactic structures identify one or more second meaning loaded entities of the plurality of meaning loaded entities that are linked to the one or more second syntactic structures by one or more second associations of the plurality of associations calculate a second content summary indicating a second level of coverage of the one or more second meaning loaded entities within the second content and provide a comparative representation that combines the first representation and a second representation of the second summary to the external entity.

Still other aspects embodiments and advantages of these example aspects and embodiments are discussed in detail below. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing information and the following detailed description are merely illustrative examples of various aspects and embodiments and are intended to provide an overview or framework for understanding the nature and character of the claimed aspects and embodiments. Any embodiment disclosed herein may be combined with any other embodiment. References to an embodiment an example some embodiments some examples an alternate embodiment various embodiments one embodiment at least one embodiment this and other embodiments or the like are not necessarily mutually exclusive and are intended to indicate that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of such terms herein are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments disclosed herein include apparatus and processes that implement a coverage analytics system that is configured to determine a domain of concepts addressed in content including a plurality of documents. For example according to some embodiments a specially configured computer system i.e. a coverage analytics system is configured to receive electronic documents and extract meaning from the documents using a meaning extraction engine. Some examples of meaning extraction tools and techniques are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 877 344 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR EXTRACTING MEANING FROM DOCUMENTS USING A MEANING TAXONOMY COMPRISING SYNTACTIC STRUCTURES issued Jan. 25 2011 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 583 580 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR IDENTIFYING AND EXTRACTING MEANING IN DOCUMENTS issued Nov. 12 2013 the 580 patent each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the coverage analytics system is further configured to summarize the extracted meaning into a variety of metrics and visualized representations. These metrics and representations provide indications as to the domain of concepts addressed in the documents and the depth of coverage given each concept. In addition in at least one embodiment the coverage analytics system is also configured to provide a comparative analysis of the extracted meaning via the metrics and visualized representations. Thus the embodiment described herein provide a user with summarized information descriptive of a variety of content sources the concepts of documents generated by these sources and the coverage given to each concept by each source.

Examples of the methods and systems discussed herein are not limited in application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The methods and systems are capable of implementation in other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Examples of specific implementations are provided herein for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be limiting. In particular acts components elements and features discussed in connection with any one or more examples are not intended to be excluded from a similar role in any other examples.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. Any references to examples embodiments components elements or acts of the systems and methods herein referred to in the singular may also embrace embodiments including a plurality and any references in plural to any embodiment component element or act herein may also embrace embodiments including only a singularity. References in the singular or plural form are not intended to limit the presently disclosed systems or methods their components acts or elements. The use herein of including comprising having containing involving and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items. References to or may be construed as inclusive so that any terms described using or may indicate any of a single more than one and all of the described terms. In addition in the event of inconsistent usages of terms between this document and documents incorporated herein by reference the term usage in the incorporated references is supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the term usage in this document controls.

Some embodiments disclosed herein implement a coverage analytics system using one or more computer systems such as the computer systems described below with reference to . According to these embodiments a coverage analytics system analyzes documents generated by one or more sources for concepts addressed within the documents and provides information descriptive of these concepts. illustrates an example coverage analytics system within the context of several external entities that interoperate with the coverage analytics system . As shown includes the coverage analytics system a user content sources and content data stores and and a communications network . The content data store includes content and . The content data store includes content and . The coverage analytics system includes a meaning extraction engine a summarization engine a meaning taxonomy expert rules a summary data store and a user interface . The summary data store stores content summaries and .

As illustrated in the coverage analytics system and the content data stores and exchange i.e. transmit or receive information via the network . The network may include any communication network through which computer systems exchange information. For example the network may be a public network such as the Internet and may include other public or private networks such as LANs WANs extranets intranets and cloud computing systems. The network may also include cellular networks such as LTE 4G HSDPA HSUPA TD SCDMA W CDMA CMDA WiFi Bluetooth EvDO GSM and iDEN networks. Although shown as a single network in in some embodiments the network includes a plurality of communication networks.

According to one embodiment illustrated by the content sources and generate content stored in the content data stores and . The content sources and may be any of a variety of entities such as news agencies research institutions businesses business analysts bloggers academics etc. The content may include textual information graphical information music and other forms of content. For instance the content may include one or more electronic documents. These electronic documents in turn may be made up of various syntactic structures that embody semantic meaning. As referred to herein syntactic structures include any set of symbols from which semantic meaning may be interpreted. A non limiting list of example syntactic structures includes characters words phrases clauses sentences paragraphs and pages. The semantic meaning of one or more syntactic structures may depend not only on the symbols included in the syntactic structure but also on the context of the syntactic structure e.g. its relationship to other syntactic structures.

In some embodiments the meaning taxonomy serves as the basis for an analytical framework used to extract meaning from content stored in the content sources and . In these embodiments the meaning taxonomy includes a plurality of direct and indirect associations between syntactic structures and meaning loaded entities. As referred to herein a meaning loaded entity is a key foundational concept of an information domain being analyzed. Meaning loaded entities are often complex or specialized concepts. In some embodiments the meaning taxonomy also defines various non normalized syntactic structures that when present in a document indicate the document addresses a particular meaning loaded entity. Further in these embodiments the meaning taxonomy identifies various syntactic structures that are used to normalize the non normalized syntactic structures. Both the normalized and non normalized syntactic structures may be associated with meaning loaded entities.

In some embodiments the meaning taxonomy includes multiple layers of syntactic structures and associated meaning loaded entities arranged in various ways. For example in one embodiment these layers are hierarchical in nature. Further the meaning loaded entities may be positioned at various locations within the meaning taxonomy. Thus the specific configuration of any meaning taxonomy depends upon the information domain being analyzed and the meaning loaded entities that the information domain expert wishes to use for automatic repeatable expert analysis or categorization. The flexible form and substance of the meaning taxonomy enables an expert to encode his information domain knowledge into the coverage analytics system in the manner most beneficial for application of an expert rule set which is described further below.

In some embodiments the expert rules when applied to content such as one or more documents extract meaning from the content in the form of expert analysis. For instance in one embodiment individual expert rules are associated with one or more meaning loaded entities within the meaning taxonomy. As will be discussed later expert rules that are associated with a meaning loaded entity may cause content such as documents to be associated with that meaning loaded entity. Thus in some embodiments content may be associated with a meaning loaded entity by virtue of a non normalized syntactic structure included in the document or by operation of an expert rule.

In another embodiment the expert rules include one or more queries. These queries identify specific documents as being of interest if a logical proposition composed of meaning loaded entities syntactic structures and operators evaluates to true when applied to the specific documents. The logical proposition may be for example a logical implication i.e. an if then statement . The logical proposition may include one or more logical operators. A non limiting list of the logical operators that may be used in these logical propositions includes and or xor and andnot. The logical propositions may include other operators as well. For example in one embodiment comparison operators such as and may be used. In still another embodiment a proximity operator may be used that will evaluate as true if a meaning loaded entity or any syntactic structure appears within a configurable proximity from a another meaning loaded entity or syntactic structure. Still another operator may evaluate as true if a particular meaning loaded entity or any syntactic structure appears multiple times within a configurable span of a document.

As a result of these capabilities the expert rules may associate an identified meaning loaded entity with a document based on that document being associated with another identified meaning loaded entity. Moreover the expert rules may associate an identified meaning loaded entity with a document not associated with another identified meaning loaded entity or any document associated with a first meaning loaded entity but not a specific syntactic structure. In another embodiment the expert rules associate an identified meaning loaded entity with documents associated with two or more other identified meaning loaded entities. In still another embodiment the expert rules associate an identified meaning loaded entity with documents associated with two or more meaning loaded entities having corresponding syntactic structures within a specified proximity of one another with the documents. This configurability of the expert rules gives an information domain expert a variety of tools with which to analyze and categorize content.

Returning to an example illustrated by the content and each include one or more electronic documents. Each of these documents includes various syntactic structures that map directly or indirectly to one or more meaning loaded entities within the meaning taxonomy . For instance in one example the documents included in content and each include syntactic structures that map to a first meaning loaded entity e.g. the concept of tablet computing and the documents and each include syntactic structures that map to a second meaning loaded entity e.g. the concept of business strategy .

In another embodiment the coverage analytics system is configured to receive content from the content data stores and and process the content to generate and store the content summaries and . When executing according to this configuration the coverage analytics system instantiates the meaning extraction engine and the summarization engine . The meaning extraction engine is configured to receive content such as any of the content and map syntactic structures within the received content to one or more meaning loaded entities stored in the meaning taxonomy . In performing this mapping the meaning extraction engine creates and stores associations between the content and the meaning loaded entities via the mapped syntactic structures. Thus in this embodiment documents are associated with meaning loaded entities via associations between syntactic structures included in the documents and the meaning loaded entities.

Next the summarization engine uses information regarding the extracted meaning loaded entities e.g. number of documents addressing the extracted concepts the density with which documents address the extracted concepts the source that generated the document etc. to calculate summary metrics. The summarization engine also stores the summary metrics along with information supporting the summary metrics in the summary data store as the content summaries and . For example the content summary may include summary information regarding the concept of business strategy and the content summary may include summary information regarding the concept of laptop computing. Additional examples of processes and actions that the coverage analytics system and its components are configured to execute are described further below with reference to .

In an embodiment illustrated by the user interacts e.g. provides input or receives output with the user interface . In some embodiments illustrated by the user interface is a browser based user interface served by the coverage analytics system . In other embodiments the user interface includes specialized client programs that execute outside of a browser environment such as an application program executing on a mobile device. The user interface may be implemented using a variety of technologies and may include sundry elements e.g. screens windows buttons boxes etc arranged according to various user interface metaphors.

In some embodiments the user interface is configured to receive input from the user requesting access to content summaries associated with meaning loaded entities of interest to the user such as the content summaries and . When executing according to this configuration the user interface responds to the input requesting access to the content summaries by accessing the summary information stored in the content summaries and held in the summary data store and rendering the summary information for display to the user. further illustrate some of the visual representations provided by the user interface .

Information may flow between the components illustrated in or any of the elements components and subsystems disclosed herein using a variety of techniques. Such techniques include for example passing the information over a network using standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP or HTTPS passing the information between modules in memory and passing the information by writing to a file database data store or some other nonvolatile data storage device among others. In addition pointers or other references to information may be transmitted and received in place of in combination with or in addition to copies of the information. Conversely the information may be exchanged in place of in combination with or in addition to pointers or other references to the information. Other techniques and protocols for communicating information may be used without departing from the scope of the examples and embodiments disclosed herein.

Within the coverage analytics system data may be stored in any logical construction capable of storing information on a computer readable medium including among other structures flat files indexed files search engine indexes hierarchical databases relational databases or object oriented databases. These data structures may be specifically configured to conserve storage space or increase data exchange performance. In addition various examples organize the data into particularized and in some cases unique structures to perform the functions disclosed herein. In these examples the data structures are sized and arranged to store values for particular types of data such as integers floating point numbers character strings arrays linked lists and the like.

As discussed above with regard to various aspects and functions described herein may be implemented as specialized hardware or software components executing in one or more computer systems. There are many examples of computer systems that are currently in use. These examples include among others network appliances personal computers workstations mainframes networked clients servers media servers application servers database servers and web servers. Other examples of computer systems may include mobile computing devices e.g. smart phones tablet computers and personal digital assistants and network equipment e.g. load balancers routers and switches . Examples of particular models of mobile computing devices include iPhones iPads and iPod touches running iOS operating system available from Apple Android devices like Samsung Galaxy Series LG Nexus and Motorola Droid X Blackberry devices available from Blackberry Limited and Windows Phone devices. Further aspects may be located on a single computer system or may be distributed among a plurality of computer systems connected to one or more communications networks.

For example various aspects functions and processes may be distributed among one or more computer systems configured to provide a service to one or more client computers or to perform an overall task as part of a distributed system. Additionally aspects may be performed on a client server or multi tier system that includes components distributed among one or more server systems that perform various functions. Consequently embodiments are not limited to executing on any particular system or group of systems. Further aspects functions and processes may be implemented in software hardware or firmware or any combination thereof. Thus aspects functions and processes may be implemented within methods acts systems system elements and components using a variety of hardware and software configurations and examples are not limited to any particular distributed architecture network or communication protocol.

Referring to there is illustrated a block diagram of a distributed computer system in which various aspects and functions are practiced. As shown the distributed computer system includes one or more computer systems that exchange information. More specifically the distributed computer system includes computer systems and . As shown the computer systems and are interconnected by and may exchange data through a communication network . The network may include any communication network through which computer systems may exchange data. To exchange data using the network the computer systems and and the network may use various methods protocols and standards including among others Fibre Channel Token Ring Ethernet Wireless Ethernet Bluetooth IP IPV6 TCP IP UDP DTN HTTP FTP SNMP SMS MMS SS7 JSON SOAP CORBA REST and Web Services. To ensure data transfer is secure the computer systems and may transmit data via the network using a variety of security measures including for example SSL or VPN technologies. While the distributed computer system illustrates three networked computer systems the distributed computer system is not so limited and may include any number of computer systems and computing devices networked using any medium and communication protocol.

As illustrated in the computer system includes a processor a memory an interconnection element an interface and data storage element . To implement at least some of the aspects functions and processes disclosed herein the processor performs a series of instructions that result in manipulated data. The processor may be any type of processor multiprocessor or controller. Example processors may include a commercially available processor such as an Intel Xeon Itanium Core Celeron or Pentium processor an AMD Opteron processor an Apple A4 or A5 processor a Sun UltraSPARC processor an IBM Power5 processor an IBM mainframe chip or a quantum computer. The processor is connected to other system components including one or more memory devices by the interconnection element .

The memory stores programs e.g. sequences of instructions coded to be executable by the processor and data during operation of the computer system . Thus the memory may be a relatively high performance volatile random access memory such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM or static memory SRAM . However the memory may include any device for storing data such as a disk drive or other nonvolatile storage device. Various examples may organize the memory into particularized and in some cases unique structures to perform the functions disclosed herein. These data structures may be sized and organized to store values for particular data and types of data.

Components of the computer system are coupled by an interconnection element such as the interconnection element . The interconnection element may include any communication coupling between system components such as one or more physical busses in conformance with specialized or standard computing bus technologies such as IDE SCSI PCI and InfiniBand. The interconnection element enables communications including instructions and data to be exchanged between system components of the computer system .

The computer system also includes one or more interface devices such as input devices output devices and combination input output devices. Interface devices may receive input or provide output. More particularly output devices may render information for external presentation. Input devices may accept information from external sources. Examples of interface devices include keyboards mouse devices trackballs microphones touch screens printing devices display screens speakers network interface cards etc. Interface devices allow the computer system to exchange information and to communicate with external entities such as users and other systems.

The data storage element includes a computer readable and writeable nonvolatile or non transitory data storage medium in which instructions are stored that define a program or other object that is executed by the processor . The data storage element also may include information that is recorded on or in the medium and that is processed by the processor during execution of the program. More specifically the information may be stored in one or more data structures specifically configured to conserve storage space or increase data exchange performance. The instructions may be persistently stored as encoded signals and the instructions may cause the processor to perform any of the functions described herein. The medium may for example be optical disk magnetic disk or flash memory among others. In operation the processor or some other controller causes data to be read from the nonvolatile recording medium into another memory such as the memory that allows for faster access to the information by the processor than does the storage medium included in the data storage element . The memory may be located in the data storage element or in the memory however the processor manipulates the data within the memory and then copies the data to the storage medium associated with the data storage element after processing is completed. A variety of components may manage data movement between the storage medium and other memory elements and examples are not limited to particular data management components. Further examples are not limited to a particular memory system or data storage system.

Although the computer system is shown by way of example as one type of computer system upon which various aspects and functions may be practiced aspects and functions are not limited to being implemented on the computer system as shown in . Various aspects and functions may be practiced on one or more computers having a different architectures or components than that shown in . For instance the computer system may include specially programmed special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC tailored to perform a particular operation disclosed herein. While another example may perform the same operation using a grid of several general purpose computing devices running MAC OS System X with Intel processors and several specialized computing devices running proprietary hardware and operating systems.

The computer system may be a computer system including an operating system that manages at least a portion of the hardware elements included in the computer system . In some examples a processor or controller such as the processor executes an operating system. Examples of a particular operating system that may be executed include a Windows based operating system such as Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows ME Windows XP Windows Vista Windows Phone or Windows 7 operating systems available from the Microsoft Corporation Android operating system available from Google Blackberry operating system available from Blackberry Limited a MAC OS System X operating system or an iOS operating system available from Apple one of many Linux based operating system distributions for example the Enterprise Linux operating system available from Red Hat Inc. a Solaris operating system available from Oracle Corporation or a UNIX operating systems available from various sources. Many other operating systems may be used and examples are not limited to any particular operating system.

The processor and operating system together define a computer platform for which application programs in high level programming languages are written. These component applications may be executable intermediate bytecode or interpreted code which communicates over a communication network for example the Internet using a communication protocol for example TCP IP. Similarly aspects may be implemented using an object oriented programming language such as .Net Ruby Objective C SmallTalk Java C Ada C C Sharp Python or JavaScript. Other object oriented programming languages may also be used. Alternatively functional scripting or logical programming languages may be used.

Additionally various aspects and functions may be implemented in a non programmed environment. For example documents created in HTML XML or other formats when viewed in a window of a browser program can render aspects of a graphical user interface or perform other functions. Further various examples may be implemented as programmed or non programmed elements or any combination thereof. For example a web page may be implemented using HTML while a data object called from within the web page may be written in C . Thus the examples are not limited to a specific programming language and any suitable programming language could be used. Accordingly the functional components disclosed herein may include a wide variety of elements e.g. specialized hardware executable code data structures or objects that are configured to perform the functions described herein.

In some examples the components disclosed herein may read parameters that affect the functions performed by the components. These parameters may be physically stored in any form of suitable memory including volatile memory such as RAM or nonvolatile memory such as a magnetic hard drive . In addition the parameters may be logically stored in a propriety data structure such as a database or file defined by a user mode application or in a commonly shared data structure such as an application registry that is defined by an operating system . In addition some examples provide for both system and user interfaces that allow external entities to modify the parameters and thereby configure the behavior of the components.

In act content is received. The content may include documents containing a plurality of syntactic structures. In at least one embodiment the content is received by coverage analytics system and provided to a meaning extraction engine such as the meaning extraction engine described above with reference to .

In act meaning is extracted from the content. This extracted meaning may take the form of associations between documents included within the content and one or more meaning loaded entities defined within the meaning taxonomy . In at least one embodiment the meaning is extracted by the meaning extraction engine. In this embodiment the meaning extraction engine executes a process in accord with the meaning extraction process described below with reference to .

In act summary metrics are calculated. These summary metrics may include for example a total number of documents that address an identified meaning loaded entity for each source and a percentage of all documents generated by each source that address an identified meaning loaded entity. Other examples of summary metrics include numbers of occurrences of meaning loaded entities and trends over time of occurrences of meaning loaded entities by document document count or occurrences. In at least one embodiment the summary metrics are calculated by a summarization engine such as the summarization engine described above with reference to . In this embodiment the summarization engine executes a process in accord with the summary calculation process described below with reference to .

In act summary information including the summary metrics is provided to an external entity such as the user described above with reference to . The visual representation used to provide the summary information may vary between embodiments. Specific examples of visual representations implemented by various embodiments are described further below with reference to .

The coverage analysis process ends at . Processes in accord with the coverage analysis process enable coverage analytic systems to identified meaning loaded entities addressed in content and determine the depth of coverage afforded these meaning loaded entities by distinct sources.

As described above with reference to in some embodiments the coverage analytics system executes a meaning extraction process via the meaning extraction engine. illustrates an example meaning extraction process in accord with the embodiments disclosed herein. As illustrated in the meaning extraction process includes processing content associating the content to a meaning taxonomy and applying expert rules. The meaning extraction process begins at .

In act content e.g. one or more documents is processed to determine and store its syntactic characteristics. For example in one embodiment the meaning extraction engine searches each document for the presence or absence of specific syntactic structures or common variations of the syntactic structures. In another embodiment the meaning extraction engine produces a comprehensive text analytics database as known to those of skill in the art.

In act the content is associated with the meaning taxonomy. In some embodiments the meaning extraction engine scans the content and associates distinct documents within the content with specific meaning loaded entities based inclusion of one or more syntactic structures or meaning loaded entities within the documents. In some embodiments the act is facilitated by a text analytics database generated in the act .

In act the expert rules are applied to the content. In some embodiments the meaning extraction engine evaluates one or more logical propositions included in the expert rules against documents included within the content. Based on the results of the logical propositions e.g. the logical proposition evaluates to true the meaning extraction engine associates distinct documents with a specific meaning loaded entities within the meaning taxonomy.

The meaning extraction process ends at . Processes in accord with the meaning extraction process enable coverage analytic systems to extract meaning from content for further analysis and summarization.

As described above with reference to in some embodiments the coverage analytics system executes a summary calculation process via a summarization engine such as the summarization engine described above with reference to . illustrates an example summary calculation process in accord with the embodiments disclosed herein. As illustrated in the summary calculation process includes identifying meaning loaded entities selecting meaning loaded entities generating summary metrics and storing content summaries. The summary calculation process begins at .

In act meaning loaded entities addressed by the processed content are identified. For example in one embodiment the summarization engine identifies a plurality of meaning loaded entities based on some predefined identification criteria. These identification criteria may be based on characteristics of the meaning loaded entities or the content associated therewith. For example the identification criteria may specify one or more content sources one or more meaning loaded entities one or more types of content a minimum document size a range of publication dates a frequency with which the specified meaning loaded entities are address within the content e.g. the number of occurrences within a document of the syntactic structure associated with the specified meaning loaded entities an importance of the specified meaning loaded entities to the user a rank order of the meaning loaded entities frequency and the like.

In act the identified meaning loaded entities and their associated content are selected for further analysis. For example in one embodiment the summarization engine ranks the meaning loaded entities by one or more values of one or more characteristics of the meaning loaded entities or the content associated therewith. These ranking characteristics may include the same characteristics used to identify the meaning loaded entities or may include additional characteristics. Next in the act the summarization engine selects meaning loaded entities that match predefined selection criteria for additional processing. These selection criteria may specify values of ranking characteristics or other characteristics of the meaning loaded entities or their associated content.

In act the metrics descriptive of the meaning loaded entities and the content associated therewith are generated. In some embodiments the summarization engine generates metrics based on the values of the ranking characteristics. For example in at least one embodiment the summarization engine generates a percentage metric for each meaning loaded entity that indicates the percentage of documents that address the meaning loaded entity relative to the total number of documents selected in the act . In act the coverage analytics system stores a content summary including the generated metrics and supporting information required to render a visual representation such as the visual representations described below with referenced to . Visual representations of generated metrics may communicate metric characteristics such as a value of a metric a metric s values as a function of time e.g. whether the metric s values were increasing decreasing or static and a metric s value relative to a benchmark e.g. an average value of a metric calculated from for all content sources .

The summary calculation process ends at . Processes in accord with the summary calculation process enable coverage analytic systems to quantify the treatment various content sources are giving a variety of concepts key to particular information domains.

Processes and each depict one particular sequence of acts in a particular embodiment. The acts included in these processes may be performed by or using one or more computer systems specially configured as discussed herein. Some acts are optional and as such may be omitted in accord with one or more embodiments. Additionally the order of acts can be altered or other acts can be added without departing from the scope of the embodiments described herein. Furthermore as described above in at least one embodiment the acts are performed on particular specially configured machines namely a coverage analytics system configured according to the examples and embodiments disclosed herein.

The processing required by the coverage analytics system to provide in the visual representation illustrated in may occur as follows. Initially Publisher and Publisher generate content regarding a plurality of information technology concepts. This content is stored in a content data store such as the content data store described above with reference to . Next the coverage analytics system executes a process in accord with the process in which the coverage analytics system receives the content extracts meaning from the content calculates summaries of the meaning and provides results e.g. the radar chart to an external entity.

In extracting meaning from the content the coverage analytics system instantiates a meaning extraction engine such as the meaning extraction engine described above with reference to and provides the content to the meaning extraction engine. The meaning extraction engine executes a meaning extraction process in accord with the process .

In calculating the summaries of the meaning the coverage analytics system instantiates a summarization engine such as the summarization engine described above with reference to . The summarization engine executes a summary calculation process in accord with the process . In this example the summarization engine identifies all content generated by Publisher and Publisher in the previous 12 months during execution of the act . During execution of the act the summarization engine ranks within each source all of the meaning loaded entities that address information technology concepts by the number of documents addressing the meaning loaded entities and selects 10 meaning loaded entities with the highest number of supporting documents for additional processing. Next during execution of the act the summarization engine converts within each source the number of supporting documents addressing each meaning loaded entity to a percentage of the total number of documents selected in the act .

In providing results to an external entity the user interface plots the summary metrics here percentages on a radar graph to show overlap and lack of overlap in the coverage provided by Publisher and Publisher .

The processing required by the coverage analytics system to provide in the visual representation illustrated in may occur as follows. Initially Publisher and Publisher generate content regarding a plurality of corporate strategy concepts. This content is stored in a content data store such as the content data store described above with reference to . Next the coverage analytics system executes a process in accord with the process in which the coverage analytics system receives the content extracts meaning from the content calculates summaries of the meaning and provides results e.g. the radar chart to an external entity.

In extracting meaning from the content the coverage analytics system instantiates a meaning extraction engine such as the meaning extraction engine described above with reference to and provides the content to the meaning extraction engine. The meaning extraction engine executes a meaning extraction process in accord with the process .

In calculating the summaries of the meaning the coverage analytics system instantiates a summarization engine such as the summarization engine described above with reference to . The summarization engine executes a summary calculation process in accord with the process . In this example the summarization engine identifies all content generated by Publisher and Publisher in the previous 12 months during execution of the act . During execution of the act the summarization engine ranks within each source all of the meaning loaded entities that address corporate strategy concepts by the number of documents addressing the meaning loaded entities and selects 10 meaning loaded entities with the highest number of supporting documents for additional processing. Next during execution of the act the summarization engine converts within each source the number of supporting documents addressing each meaning loaded entity to a percentage of the total number of documents selected in the act .

In providing results to an external entity the user interface plots the summary metrics here percentages on a radar graph to show overlap and lack of overlap in the coverage provided by Publisher and Publisher .

The processing required by the coverage analytics system to provide in the visual representation illustrated in may occur as follows. Initially Publisher and Publisher generate content regarding a plurality of IT product market concepts. This content is stored in a content data store such as the content data store described above with reference to . Next the coverage analytics system executes a process in accord with the process in which the coverage analytics system receives the content extracts meaning from the content calculates summaries of the meaning and provides results e.g. the radar chart to an external entity.

In extracting meaning from the content the coverage analytics system instantiates a meaning extraction engine such as the meaning extraction engine described above with reference to and provides the content to the meaning extraction engine. The meaning extraction engine executes a meaning extraction process in accord with the process .

In calculating the summaries of the meaning the coverage analytics system instantiates a summarization engine such as the summarization engine described above with reference to . The summarization engine executes a summary calculation process in accord with the process . In this example the summarization engine identifies all content generated by Publisher and Publisher in the previous 12 months during execution of the act . During execution of the act the summarization engine ranks within each source all of the meaning loaded entities that address IT product market concepts by the number of documents addressing the meaning loaded entities and selects 10 meaning loaded entities with the highest number of supporting documents for additional processing. Next during execution of the act the summarization engine converts within each source the number of supporting documents addressing each meaning loaded entity to a percentage of the total number of documents selected in the act .

In providing results to an external entity the user interface plots the summary metrics here percentages on a radar graph to show overlap and lack of overlap in the coverage provided by Publisher and Publisher .

A coverage analytics system may process content generated from a wide variety of entities that address a wide range of meaning loaded entities. Examples of sources and meaning loaded entities that may be analyzed include universities and research grants by academic area syndicated market research reports news feeds scientific journal article databases conference presentation databases white papers on any topic by any set or organizations press release databases websites and social media feeds. Each of these sources and meaning loaded entities may be analyzed and visualized using the embodiments described herein and thus fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one example it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. For instance examples and embodiments disclosed herein may also be used in other contexts. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the scope of the examples discussed herein. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

