---

title: Generative grammar models for effective promotion and advertising
abstract: A system comprising a computer-readable storage medium storing at least one program and a computer-implemented method for creating messages using generative grammar models is presented. Consistent with some embodiments, the method may include receiving a request to generate a message, which in an example embodiment is to be published to a social network platform. In response to receiving the request, a generative grammar model defining the structure of the message is accessed. The generative grammar model may include a number of blanks and may specify a source along with a grammatical constraint for a term to populate each blank. The method may further include generating the message in accordance with the generative grammar model, and causing the generated message to be published.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652787&OS=09652787&RS=09652787
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09652787
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140929
---
This application relates to data processing. In particular example embodiments may relate to generative grammar models for effective social promotion and advertising.

Social network platforms e.g. Facebook Twitter Pinterest or the like provide users with the ability to post and share content e.g. user generated content or existing third party content with members of their social network. Users of these social network platforms often spend considerable time and effort attempting to formulate appropriate messages to append to content that is to be shared. Considering the amount of such content that is regularly shared on social networks it is often difficult to share the content in a manner that will be engaging to the audience. As a result a large amount of shared content goes unnoticed.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that these examples are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the illustrated embodiments. On the contrary they are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the disclosure. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details.

Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems and methods for automatic generation of content by suitably combining selections from various types of information. The generated content may for example be published as an entry e.g. status updates tweets pins and other such messages on one or more social network platforms and in example embodiments may be used to share advertise or promote other existing content such as listings for products offered for sale e.g. in an online marketplace . Information used to generate content may be retrieved from a variety of different sources that may be stored in either internal or external e.g. third party repositories. The information may for example include general product information e.g. item categories specific product information e.g. brands information about the user intending to share the content e.g. demographic data or information about the intended audience of the shared content e.g. social data . In this manner the methods described in example embodiments may achieve the technical effect of maximizing automatic relevant content generation while minimizing user effort maximizing content appeal and thus maximizing the overall effectiveness of shared content.

Example embodiments involve the use of generative grammar models in the generation of messages which may be included as part of published social network entries. Individual generative grammar models define the structure of a message e.g. a phrase or sentence to be published. The generative grammar model may specify a number of lexical slots which are blanks that are to be filled with information to eventually form the message. For each lexical slot the generative grammar model specifies a corpus of source data and a grammatical constraint. The corpus of source data is a discrete source of information used to fill the lexical slot and the grammatical constraint specifies a type of speech from which a particular term e.g. word or phrase used to fill the lexical slot is to be selected. For example the grammatical constraint may specify a lexical category e.g. noun verb or adjective . The particular generative grammar model selected to generate messages may for example be specifically designed for the social network platform to which the message is being shared a type of content or item associated with the message e.g. a product listing or the user requesting to publish the message.

The network system may include a network based content publisher in communication with a client device and a third party server . In some example embodiments the network based content publisher may be a network based marketplace e.g. eBay.com . The network based content publisher may communicate and exchange data within the network system that may pertain to various functions and aspects associated with the network system and its users. The network based content publisher may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to network devices such as the client device .

The client device may be operated by users who use the network system to exchange data over the network . These data exchanges may include transmitting receiving communicating and processing data to from and regarding content and users of the network system . The data may include but are not limited to images video or audio content user preferences product and service feedback advice and reviews product service manufacturer and vendor recommendations and identifiers product and service listings associated with buyers and sellers product and service advertisements auction bids transaction data user profile data and social data among other things.

The client device may interface with the network based content publisher via a connection with the network . Depending on the form of the client device any of a variety of types of connections and networks may be used. For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or another type of cellular connection. Such a connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or other types of networks .

In another example the connection to the network may be a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or another packet switched data network. In yet another example the connection to the network may be a wired connection e.g. an Ethernet link and the network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or another packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

In various embodiments the data exchanged within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . The UIs may be associated with a client device such as the client device executing a web client e.g. an Internet browser which may be in communication with the network based content publisher . The UIs may also be associated with one or more applications executing on the client device such as a mobile application designed for interacting with the network based content publisher or with a social network platform hosted by the third party server .

Turning specifically to the network based content publisher an API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to an application server . As illustrated in the application server may be coupled via the API server and the web server to the network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. The application server is in turn shown to be coupled to a database server that facilitates access to a database . In some examples the application server can access the database directly without the need for the database server . The database may include multiple databases that may be internal or external to the network based content publisher .

The application server may for example host one or more applications which may provide a number of content publishing and viewing functions and services to users who access the network based content publisher . For example the network based content publisher may host a marketplace application that provides a number of marketplace functions and services to users such as publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services also collectively referred to as products for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services.

As illustrated in the application server hosts a generative grammar application that provides message generation and publishing services to users of the network based content publisher . For example the generative grammar application may receive requests from a user to share a product listing with one or more other users and in turn the generative grammar application may generate and facilitate the publishing of a message to share the product listing. The generative grammar application may cause the messages to be published in the sense that they are communicated albeit through a variety of means to other users or entities.

The messages generated and published by the generative grammar application may also include a reference to content e.g. a link . As used herein the terms content or content item refer to electronic data that is consumed by viewers e.g. users on displays client devices or page display based media e.g. World Wide Web WWW media embodied in browsers and accessible over the Internet . As such the terms content and content item may refer to data associated with readable text data associated with images data associate with graphics or video programmatic content scripts or data corresponding to various combinations of these.

Consistent with some embodiments users may utilize the generative grammar application to generate messages that are separate from and independent of any existing content. For example users may utilize the generative grammar application to automatically generate a status update. Further while the generative grammar application is shown in to form part of the network based content publisher it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the generative grammar application may form part of a service that is separate and distinct from the network based content publisher .

The database may comprise a number of repositories used to store data pertaining to various functions and aspects associated with the network system and its users. For example the database may include a repository to store and maintain user profiles for users of the network based content publisher . Each user profile may comprise user profile data that describes aspects of a particular user. The user profile data may for example include demographic data user preferences social data and financial information. The demographic data may for example include information describing one or more characteristics of a user such as gender age location information e.g. hometown or current location employment history education history contact information familial relations or user interests. The financial information may for example include private financial information of the user such as account number credential password device identifier user name phone number credit card information bank information transaction history or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by the user.

The database may also include a repository to store a record of user activity data. Accordingly the network based content publisher may monitor track and record the activities of users utilizing one or more devices e.g. the client device to interact with the various components of the network system . Each user session may be maintained in a repository stored in the database . Accordingly the user activity data may include past keyword searches that users have performed web pages viewed by each user products added to a user wish list or watch list products added to an electronic shopping cart and products that the users own. Consistent with some embodiments the repository used to store records of user activity may be linked to the repository used to store user profile data so as to maintain an association of a user profile with the activities that the corresponding user has performed.

In instances in which the network based content publisher is a network based marketplace the database may include a repository to store product information. Such product information may for example include a product identifier e.g. a title or a model number a price a make a manufacturer a model a brand name a textual description a size a style product dimensions compatibility information or any other information that may be used to describe a product. In these instances the database may also include a repository to store a transaction history of users of the network based content publisher that includes information related to transactions for products that may be offered for sale by merchants who utilize marketplace services provided by the network based content publisher . The transaction history information may for example include a description of a product offered for sale sold or purchased by users an identifier of the product a category to which the product belongs a purchase price a purchase date a purchased quantity a number of bids for the product or various combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the submission of the request may be via a share widget embedded in a web page e.g. hosted by the network based content publisher along with existing content. In such instances the request may be more specifically to generate a message to share the content with members of a social network of the user e.g. the recipients maintained by the social network platform executing on the third party server .

It shall be appreciated that the share widget is merely an example of a graphical user interface GUI element at which user requests to generate a message may be received and in other embodiments user requests to generate messages may be received at various other GUI elements or from various other applications executing within the network system e.g. applications executing on the application server or the third party server that are independent of any existing content. For example a request to generate a message may be received from a social network application executing on the client device and the transmission of the request may be in response to the user of the client device selecting or otherwise manipulating a GUI element utilized for publishing content on the social network platform e.g. a status update button .

In response to receiving the request the application server accesses a generative grammar model e.g. stored in the database defining a message structure at operation . The generative grammar model specifies a length of the message e.g. a number of terms in the message and a number of lexical slots. The lexical slots are blanks in a message structure that are to be filled with a term e.g. a word or a phrase . In some embodiments the generative grammar model may define one or more prepopulated or fixed terms to increase the readability and coherency of an eventual message created using the generative grammar model. For each lexical slot the generative grammar model also specifies a corpus of source data and a grammatical constraint. The source data is a source of discrete information from which the term used to fill the lexical slot is to be selected. The grammatical constraint specifies a type of speech e.g. call to action noun verb adjective to which the selected term belongs. The particular generative grammar model selected by the application server may for example be specifically designed for use with the social network platform to which the message is being shared a type of content or item associated with the message e.g. a product listing or the user requesting to publish the message.

At operation the application server accesses and obtains the corpus of source data specified for each lexical slot in the generative grammar model. Consistent with some embodiments each corpus of source data may be stored in a discrete database or other such data repository while in other embodiments all corpuses of source data may be stored together in a single database or other such data repository with each corpus of source data being discretely indexed. The source data may include internal corpuses of user profile data product information transaction information and user activity data maintained in the database as well as other corpuses of data maintained by third party systems that are external to the network based content publisher . For example in the embodiment illustrated in the generative grammar model specifies social data maintained by the social network platform as the source data for one of the lexical slots in the generative grammar model. In instances in which a source repository is external to the network based content publisher the application server may transmit a request e.g. an API call to the third party system to request the source data.

In response to receiving such a request the third party server provides the social data to the application server at operation . The term social data refers to information maintained by a social network platform about its members. The social data of each member may contain information such as demographic information e.g. gender age relationship status employment status and history household size geographic information e.g. a hometown a current location locations visited interests and affinities e.g. items the member liked a list of social network connections and a history of social network activity of the user. For purposes of the present disclosure a social network connection also referred to as being connected on a social network may include situations in which there is a reciprocal agreement between members of the social network to be linked on the social network as well as situations in which there is only a singular acknowledgement of the connection without further action being taken by the other member. In the reciprocal agreement situation both members of the connection acknowledge the establishment of the connection e.g. friends . Similarly in the singular acknowledgement situation a member may elect to follow or watch another member. In contrast to the reciprocal agreement the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation because it may not call for acknowledgement or approval by the member who is being followed.

For purposes of the present disclosure social network activity collectively refers to user interactions e.g. creating sharing viewing commenting providing feedback or expressing interest with entries e.g. text and image posts links messages notes invitations . Such social network activity may involve entries that are intended for the public at large as well as entries intended for a particular social network connection or group of social network connections. Depending on the social network platform the social network activity may be published in an entry and may involve entries such as an activity feed post a wall post a status update a tweet a pinup a like a content share e.g. content shared from a source such as the network based content publisher or a check in.

At operation the application server generates the message using the various source data and the generative grammar model. The generation of the message may include selecting a term from the source data of each respective lexical slot in the generative grammar model and populating the respective lexical slot with the corresponding selected term. Each of the terms is selected from respective corpuses of source data in accordance with the grammatical constraint specified for each lexical slot by the generative grammar model.

As an example is a data flow diagram depicting source data being used to populate an example generative grammar model consistent with some embodiments. The generative grammar model defines a message structure including a prepopulated term and lexical slots and . As shown the lexical slots and are each populated with a term from a distinct corpus of source data which is specified by the generative grammar model to create a message . In particular product data is specified as the source data for the lexical slot trending data e.g. top trending hashtags on Twitter is specified as the source data for the lexical slot user profile data is specified as the source data for the lexical slot and social data is specified as the source data for the lexical slot . As shown the message includes the prepopulated term and terms and . The terms and are selected and extracted respectively from the product data the trending data the user profile data and the social data in accordance with a grammatical constraint specified by the generative grammar model for each of the lexical slots and . For example the grammatical constraint specified by the generative grammar model for the lexical slot is an adjective and thus the selected term is an adjective.

Returning to at operation the application server validates the generated message e.g. the message . The validating of the message may include performing various validation routines to ensure that the generated message is understandable logical and consistent. In some embodiments the validation of the message may include verifying that the generated message adheres to a messaging standard or constraint e.g. related to length or content imposed by the social network platform to which the message is to be published. For example messages published to Twitter must be no longer than 140 characters and in instances in which the message is to be published to Twitter as specified in the request received at operation the application server may verify that the generated message is no longer than 140 characters.

At operation the application server may prompt the requestor for approval of the generated message e.g. by providing instructions to the client device to present an interface to display the message and receive input from the requestor . At operation the requestor may provide approval of the message by providing input via a button or other graphical interface element presented on the client device which in turn transmits the approval to the application server . Upon receiving approval from the requestor the application server may transmit a request to the social network platform to publish the message as a social network entry on behalf of the requestor at operation . In instances in which the request to generate the message corresponds to a request to share content e.g. via a share widget with recipients the application server may include a link or other reference to the content along with the generated message to include in the published social network entry. At operation the social network platform publishes the social network entry on behalf of the requestor.

Upon being published by the social network platform the social network entry comprising the message and in some embodiments a link to content may be viewed by the members of the social network of the requestor. For example is an interface diagram illustrating a published social network entry appearing on an example social network activity feed consistent with some embodiments. The social network activity feed illustrated in corresponds to a user profile which in this embodiment corresponds to a user that is a social network connection of a requesting user or who has otherwise been permitted to view the social network activity of the requesting user . The requesting user on whose behalf the social network entry is being published is identified in the social network entry by name e.g. Addy Advertiser and by an image. The social network entry as shown includes the message along with a content reference e.g. a link .

The model generation module is responsible for generating generative grammar models to be used in the automated generating of messages. Consistent with some embodiments the model generation module may develop generative grammar models for use in creating messages for publishing to a particular platform e.g. a social network platform . To this end the model generation module may analyze a collection of social network activity obtained from a particular social network platform to identify patterns that are indicative of a typical messaging style of messages published to that social network platform. In other words the model generation module may analyze historic activity from a social network platform to learn a generic average of messages posted to that platform. The model generation module may then use this information along with any constraints or limitations imposed by the social network platform e.g. Twitter S 140 character limit to develop a generative grammar model operable to create messages in the typical messaging style of the social network platform. For example upon analyzing social network activity from Facebook the model generation module may determine that users of Facebook typically use full grammatically correct sentences when posting messages and in turn the model generation module may generate a Facebook specific generative grammar model that reflects Facebook users typical messaging style of full grammatically correct sentences. In another example upon analyzing social network activity from Twitter the model generation module may determine that users of Twitter typically use fragmented sentences when posting messages and in turn the model generation module may generate a Twitter specific generative grammar model that reflects Twitter users typical messaging style of fragmented sentences.

Consistent with some embodiments the model generation module may generate a generative grammar model that is specific to each user of the network based content publisher . These user specific generative grammar models may be based on each user s individual messaging style which the model generation module may learn through analysis of respective users social network activity. The individual messaging style may be related to various elements such as use of full run on or fragmentary sentences hashtag use punctuation a font size a font style a diction choice emoji use message formality a salutation or various combinations thereof.

Consistent with some embodiments the model generation module may be configured to generate generative grammar models for creating messages that are related to a certain type of content or are for a particular purpose. As an example the model generation module may develop a generative grammar model for generating messages to share product listings with one or more other users for the purpose of advertising the offer to sell the product contained therein. In this example the generative grammar model for advertising a product for sale may begin with a call to action by specifying that a first lexical slot included in the generative grammar model begin with a verb e.g. Buy it now or Check this out . In another example the model generation module may develop a generative grammar model for generating messages to share product listings for the purpose of expressing an interest in the product offered for sale. In this example the generative grammar model for generating a message to express interest in the product may specify that a first lexical slot included in the generative grammar model be constrained to an adjective so as to provide a more descriptive message about the product that would be more likely to be perceived by the viewing audience as an expression of interest.

The model repository which in some embodiments resides on the database stores the generative grammar models generated by the model generation module . As such the model repository includes a plurality of generative grammar models that are individually developed for a particular social network platform a particular user a particular content type e.g. product listings or a particular product e.g. in instances in which the message is for the purpose of promoting or advertising a particular product . In some embodiments the model repository may store human made generative grammar models that are created based on heuristics.

The request module is configured to receive and process requests to generate messages for publication. In some embodiments a received request to generate a message may be part of a request to share content with one or more users also referred to herein as recipients or recipient users . Such requests may include an identifier of the content a selected message delivery platform e.g. email SMS or social network platform and an identifier of one or more recipients e.g. members of a social network of the sender . The identifier of the one or more recipients may include a name an account number a phone number an email address a user name or any other identifier suitable for identifying a would be recipient of a message. Consistent with some embodiments the user requests may be received at a share widget embedded in or included with content published by the network based content publisher .

The retrieval module is responsible for accessing and retrieving generative grammar models e.g. from the model repository in response to receiving message generation requests. The particular generative grammar model accessed by the retrieval module may depend on a particular social network platform to which the message is to be published a user associated with the message generation request e.g. the requesting user or one or more message recipients a type of content which the message is being generated to share a purpose for publishing the message e.g. to advertise a product for sale or any combination of these.

The retrieval module may be further configured to access source data specified in generative grammar models and extract terms from such data to be used in populating lexical slots comprising the generative grammar models. The retrieval module may extract such terms in accordance with respective grammatical constraints specified for each lexical slot comprising a generative grammar model. The message generation module which is responsible for generating messages using generative grammar models may in turn use the extracted terms to populate the lexical slots to achieve the result of a complete generated message. In instances in which a message being generated by the message generation module is to be used to share content with recipients the message generation module may further include a reference to content e.g. a link in the generated message.

The validation module is responsible for validating the message generated by the message generation module . To this end the validation module may be configured to perform various validation routines to ensure that the generated message is understandable logical and consistent. In some embodiments the validation of the message may include verifying that the generated message adheres to a messaging standard or constraint e.g. related to length or content imposed by the social network platform to which the message is to be published. In an example the validation module may verify that the message does not contain profanity or other words or phrases that may violate the terms of use of the social network platform to which the message is to be published. In some embodiments the validation of the message may include requesting approval of the message from the requestor e.g. by transmitting instructions to the client device that cause the device to prompt the user for approval and receive input indicative of such .

The communication module is responsible for publishing messages to users. In doing so the communication module may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example the communication module may deliver electronic mail email instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired e.g. the Internet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

In some instances users may request that content be shared using a particular social network platform. To this end the communication module is configured to facilitate publishing messages to social network platforms as social network entries. The communication module may utilize a publicly available API provided by the applicable social network platform to pass information including a message to the social network platform which ultimately publishes the message as a social network entry on behalf of the requestor.

At operation the request module receives a request to generate a message e.g. from the client device . The request may specify one or more message platforms e.g. email text messaging or a social network to be utilized to publish the message. The request may be to generate a message that is to be published on behalf of the requestor and the request may specify an intended audience e.g. recipient users to which the message is to be published. In some instances the message to be generated is for the purpose of sharing advertising or promoting existing content such as a product listing offering a product for sale. In these instances the request may be generated by the web client or the application executing on the client device in response to user selection of a share widget included with the existing content.

At operation the retrieval module accesses a generative grammar model from the model repository e.g. maintained in the database . The generative grammar model accessed by the retrieval module defines a message structure. As part of the message structure the generative grammar model defines one or more lexical slots which are blanks to be filled with a term extracted from respective data sources. The generative grammar model further specifies a corpus of source data and a grammatical constraint for each lexical slot included in the message structure. The particular generative grammar model accessed by the retrieval module may be selected based on a social network platform to which the message may be published the user requesting the generation of the message a user or group of users who will receive or view the message the type of content which the message is being generated to share or a particular product for which the message will be used to share sell promote or advertise. In an example a user may use the client device to request generation of a message to share content on Twitter and in response the retrieval module accesses a generative grammar model developed for Twitter.

At operation the message generation module generates a message using the generative grammar model. The generating of the message by the message generation module may include accessing a corpus of source data e.g. specified by the generative grammar model for each lexical slot extracting a term from each corpus of source data in accordance with a corresponding grammatical constraint specified by the generative grammar model and using the extracted terms to populate the lexical slots. In some embodiments the generating of the message may further include appending a link or reference to existing content in the message. Additional details regarding the process of generating the message are discussed in reference to consistent with some embodiments.

At operation the validation module validates the message generated by the message generation module . The validation module may perform various validation routines to ensure that the generated message is understandable logical and consistent. In some embodiments the validation of the message may include verifying that the generated message adheres to a messaging standard or constraint e.g. related to length or content imposed by the social network platform to which the message is to be published. In an example the validation module may verify that the message does not contain profanity or other words or phrases that may violate the terms of use of the social network platform to which the message is to be published. In some embodiments the validation of the message may include requesting approval of the message from a user e.g. by transmitting instructions to the client device that cause the device to prompt the user for approval and receive input indicative of such on whose behalf the message will be published or transmitted.

At operation upon successful validation of the message the communication module may cause the message to be published. In some embodiments the communication module may cause the message to be published by the network based content publisher such that it may be viewed by other users of the network based content publisher . In some embodiments the communication module may cause the message to be published directly to one or more recipient users e.g. by transmitting the message as an SMS message to the devices of the one or more recipients . In some embodiments the communication module may cause the message to be published on a third party platform that allows submissions of user generated content such as for example a social network platform. In these embodiments the communication module may cause the message to be published by transmitting a request e.g. an API call to a server hosting the platform e.g. the third party server hosting the third party application to publish the message.

Consistent with some embodiments the method may correspond to the operation discussed in reference to . At operation the retrieval module accesses the corpus of source data specified by the generative grammar model for the lexical slot. At operation the message generation module selects a term e.g. a word or phrase from the source data. The term selected by the message generation module is in accordance with the grammatical constraint for the lexical slot specified by the generative grammar model. In some embodiments the corpus of source data may be organized in segmented categories that may correspond to various grammatical constraints. For example the corpus of source data may be organized by lexical category such that nouns are aggregated into a first segment verbs are aggregated into a second segment adjectives into a third segment and so on. In these embodiments the message generation module may select a term from within the category corresponding to the grammatical constraint specified e.g. by the generative grammar model for the lexical slot. In some embodiments the corpus of source data may be a curated list of terms that are ranked for example according to social relevancy e.g. trending terms . In these embodiments the message generation module may select one of the highest ranked terms. In some embodiments the message generation module may analyze the corpus of data to identify terms that fulfill the grammatical constraint and select one of the identified terms.

At operation which is an optional operation performed in some embodiments the message generation module appends an octothorpe to the selected term to create a hashtag. In some embodiments the corpus of source data includes hashtag terms and such terms may be selected at operation . At operation the message generation module populates the lexical slot with the term e.g. either the plain term or the hashtag . It shall be appreciated that the operations comprising the method are performed for each lexical slot specified in a generative grammar model. In other words the method is iteratively performed until each lexical slot in the generative grammar model is filled with information to result in the generation of a complete message e.g. the message .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules . In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware or software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or in a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes one or more input output I O devices a location component a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device . The I O devices may for example include a keyboard a mouse a keypad a multi touch surface e.g. a touchscreen or track pad a microphone a camera and the like.

The location component may be used for determining a location of the computer system . In some embodiments the location component may correspond to a GPS transceiver that may make use of the network interface device to communicate GPS signals with a GPS satellite. The location component may also be configured to determine a location of the computer system by using an Internet Protocol IP address lookup or by triangulating a position based on nearby mobile communications towers. The location component may be further configured to store a user defined location in the main memory or the static memory . In some embodiments a mobile location enabled application may work in conjunction with the location component and the network interface device to transmit the location of the computer system to an application server or third party server for the purpose of identifying the location of a user operating the computer system .

In some embodiments the network interface device may correspond to a transceiver and antenna. The transceiver may be configured to both transmit and receive cellular network signals wireless data signals or other types of signals via the antenna depending on the nature of the computer system .

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory the static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

Consistent with some embodiments the instructions may relate to the operations of an operating system OS . Depending on the particular type of the computer system the OS may for example be the iOS operating system the Android operating system a BlackBerry operating system the Microsoft Windows Phone operating system Symbian OS or webOS . Further the instructions may relate to operations performed by applications commonly known as apps consistent with some embodiments. One example of such an application is a mobile browser application that displays content such as a web page or a user interface using a browser.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more data structures or instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions e.g. the instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

Furthermore the tangible machine readable medium is non transitory in that it does not embody a propagating signal. However labeling the tangible machine readable medium non transitory should not be construed to mean that the medium is incapable of movement the medium should be considered as being transportable from one real world location to another. Additionally since the machine readable medium is tangible the medium may be considered to be a machine readable device.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying the instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the embodiments of the present inventive subject matter have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated references should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

