---

title: Risk assessment modeling
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for risk assessment. Historical authentication data and/or compromised user account data may be evaluated to identify a set of authentication context properties associated with user authentication sessions and/or a set of malicious account context properties associated with compromised user accounts (e.g., properties indicative of whether a user recently visited a malicious site, created a fake social network profile, logged in from unknown locations, etc.). The set of authentication context properties and/or the set of malicious account context properties may be annotated to create an annotated context property training set that may be used to train a risk assessment machine learning model to generate a risk assessment model. The risk assessment model may be used to evaluate user context properties of a user account event to generate a risk analysis metric indicative of a likelihood the user account event is malicious or safe.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396332&OS=09396332&RS=09396332
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09396332
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140521
---
Various security techniques may be implemented to protect accounts and or sensitive information contained therein. In an example a bank may require a user name and password to access bank account information through a bank website. As an additional level of security a one time code may be sent to a registered device and or email account for example where the one time code may be provided back for authentication purposes such as where a user wishes to recover a forgotten user name and or password for example.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for risk assessment are provided. Historical authentication data may be evaluated e.g. given user consent to identify a set of authentication context properties associated with user authentication sessions e.g. contextual information related to one or more users accessing one or more accounts . Compromised user account data may be evaluated e.g. given user consent to identify a set of malicious account context properties associated with compromised user accounts and or compromised user authentication events e.g. contextual information related to one or more users accessing one or more accounts identified as being compromised . A user may take affirmative action to provide opt in consent to allow access to and or use of historical authentication data and or compromised user account data such as for the purpose of risk assessment e.g. where the user responds to a prompt regarding the collection and or user of such information . Terms of use may provide a user with notice of the use and or collection of historical authentication data and or compromised user account data such as for the purpose of risk assessment for example.

The set of authentication context properties and or the set of malicious account context properties may be annotated to create an annotated context properties training set e.g. authentication context property patterns and or user account context property patterns may be labeled as safe or malicious . A risk assessment machine learning module may be trained based upon the annotated context properties training set to generate a risk assessment model. The risk assessment model may comprise one or more machine learning structures e.g. one or more boosted ensembles such as random forests adaboost logitboost etc. and or other data structures and or functionality that may be used to evaluate whether current user account events e.g. an authentication event a password change event a new account creation event an authentication proof change event a purchase event etc. are safe or malicious.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and or systems for risk assessment are provided herein. Various information may be used to train a risk assessment machine learning module to create a risk assessment model that may be used to generate risk analysis metrics used to moderate user account events. For example historical authentication data and or compromised user account data may be evaluated e.g. given user consent to identify authentication context properties and or malicious account context properties that may be used to train the risk assessment machine learning module. A user may take affirmative action to provide opt in consent to allow access to and or use of historical authentication data and or compromised user account data such as for the purpose of risk assessment e.g. where the user responds to a prompt regarding the collection and or user of such data . In an example machine learning structure e.g. a boosted ensemble such as random forests adaboost logitboost etc. may be generated for inclusion within the risk assessment model based upon the authentication context properties and or the malicious account context properties. In this way current user account events may be moderated using risk analysis metrics generated by the risk assessment model. For example a current user may be blocked from accessing an account until a user response is received a reputation of a user may be demoted etc.

An embodiment of risk assessment is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At historical authentication data may be evaluated e.g. given user consent to identify a set of authentication context properties associated with user authentication sessions. For example various telemetry associated with one or more users may be evaluated to identify the set of authentication context properties such as browsing history prior geolocations devices utilized services utilized user contacts user captcha history social network posts microblog messages emails calendar entries subscriptions device input patterns such as keystrokes per minute IP address locations information about a target service a likelihood of abusing the target service recent authentication failure rates for the target service user activities transaction histories user provided information such as phone numbers whether a user is associated with a past e.g. credit card breach etc. A user may take affirmative action to provide opt in consent to allow access to and or use of the telemetry such as for the purpose of risk assessment e.g. where the user responds to a prompt regarding the collection and or user of such information . The set of authentication context properties may correlate authentication context property patterns e.g. user profile location to IP address location mismatch user browsing history user subscriptions etc. with either safe or malicious authentication tendencies.

At compromised user account data may be evaluated e.g. given user consent to identify a set of malicious account context properties associated with compromised user accounts and or compromised user authentication events. A user may take affirmative action to provide opt in consent to allow access to and or use of compromised user account data such as for the purpose of risk assessment e.g. where the user responds to a prompt regarding the collection and or user of such data . In an example various compromise detection algorithms such as a compromised email account detection algorithm a compromised social network account detection algorithm a malware detection algorithm etc. may collect the compromised user account data such as by acting upon at least some of the aforementioned telemetry. In an example the compromised user account data may comprise and or describe malicious code executing on a user device. In another example the compromised user account data may comprise and or describe user self detected compromised signals e.g. a user may review user related activities such as authentication records on an account activity page and may flag a particular activity as a compromised activity likely carried out by a malicious party . The set of malicious account context properties may correlate contextual information e.g. keystrokes of a user email usage social network profile posting information etc. with either normal user account usage or compromised user account usage.

At the set of authentication context properties and or the set of malicious account context properties may be annotated to create an annotated context properties training set. In an example a first set of historical authentication data associated with malicious user authentication events may be identified. Authentication context properties of the first set of historical authentication data may be evaluated to identify an authentication context property pattern indicative of malicious user authentication e.g. users that visited a known malicious website may be likely to be malicious or at least compromised users . The authentication context property pattern may be annotated as malicious to create a malicious authentication context property pattern for inclusion within the annotated context properties training set.

In another example the set of malicious account context properties may be evaluated to identify a user account context property pattern indicative of a compromised user account e.g. multiple user logins from various countries within a threshold timespan may indicate that a user account has been taken over by a malicious user and is being exploited . The user account context property pattern may be annotated as malicious to create a malicious user account context property pattern for inclusion within the annotated context property training set. In this way the annotated context property training set may comprise various properties indicative of safe or malicious user account events such as a user browsing history property a geolocation property a target service property e.g. indicative of a target service accessed by a compromised user a social network profile property e.g. a high rate of social network posts promoting malicious websites an application execution context property e.g. execution of a trusted or untrusted application a client device property e.g. access from a device not known to be associated with a user but using credentials of the user a device interaction property e.g. keystrokes per minute above a human capability threshold authentication challenged history property e.g. an amount of failed authentication challenges by a user for various services a user contact list e.g. malicious or safe user contacts a user activity property e.g. messaging history application interaction account creation etc. etc.

In another example the annotated context properties training set comprises statistics about annotated context properties e.g. counts averages velocities etc. and or learned meta patterns e.g. a combination of multiple properties e.g. property X combined with property Y combined with property Z etc. to form a new context property such as pre training with deep neural nets and or grouping accounts using k means clustering and using a resulting corresponding account cluster ID as an additional context property . In another example the annotated context properties training set comprises annotated context properties from non malicious accounts such as an email outbound event count for benign accounts. In this way annotated context properties within the annotated context properties training set represent malicious and benign context properties.

At a risk assessment machine learning model may be trained e.g. supervised semi supervised or unsupervised based upon the annotated context properties training set to generate a risk assessment model. In an example one or more machine learning structures may be generated for inclusion within the risk assessment model. A machine learning structure may indicate that one or more user context properties are indicative of either a malicious user account event or a safe user account event. The machine learning structure may comprise one or more decision structures for malicious authentication context property patterns and or malicious user account context property patterns. A decision structure may specify that a user context property e.g. of a current user account event such as creation of a new account being evaluated in real time may be indicative of a malicious user account event where the user context property corresponds to one or more malicious authentication context property patterns and or one or more malicious user account context property patterns e.g. a current user attempting to create the new account may have visited a malicious website that other compromised user accounts visited and thus may be considered suspect .

The risk assessment model may be utilized to identify safe or malicious user account events e.g. an authentication event a password change event a user account creation event a proof change event a purchase event a social network post event a send email event a phone call event etc. . At a current user account event of a current user may be identified e.g. the current user may attempt to create an electronic payment service account . At a current user context property of the current user may be evaluated using the risk assessment model to generate a risk analysis metric e.g. a value corresponding to a potential risk amount of maliciousness or non maliciousness and or a confidence of such an assessment . For example the risk analysis metric may indicate that the current user account event may have a high likelihood of being malicious based upon the current user context property indicating that the current user recently visited a known malicious website has an abnormal social network profile e.g. merely a picture and links to malicious websites and has interacted with a client device using keystroke input that is faster than a rate at which a human is capable of typing. Such current user context properties may match one or more decision structures within the risk assessment model which may lead to an assessment that the current user account event may be malicious.

In an example a plurality of risk assessment models may be maintained and available for evaluating the current user account event. A predefined criteria such as a type of user e.g. gender age profession such as a job role that may entail wide spread email distribution of information to a vast number of users computer skill level etc. a location a random selection and or a variety of other criteria may be used to select a risk assessment model for evaluating the current user account event. In an example more than one risk assessment model may be used to evaluate the current user account event and various actions may be taken based upon results from respective risk assessment models. For example results from multiple risk assessment models may be aggregated e.g. based upon weightings of models results etc. to determine a particular action e.g. authentication challenge . A first result from a first risk assessment model may be selected from among other results from other risk assent models such as based upon a relevance of the first risk assessment model to a user characteristic e.g. risk assessment model corresponds to job description of user etc. . Based upon user response to first result from a first risk assessment model a second result from a second risk assessment model may be selected from among other results from other risk assent models etc.

At the current user account event may be moderated based upon the risk analysis metric. For example the current user may be blocked until a user response is received the current user may be blocked for a current session of the current user account event an authentication challenge may be provided to the current user restricted access may be provided to a destination e.g. browsing but not purchasing access may be provided to a shopping website a reputation of the current user may be demoted etc. It will be appreciated that a wide variety of moderation may be used such as zero moderation friction moderation or blocking moderation for various scenarios. User feedback e.g. a user passing a user authentication challenge a user authentication challenge failure result an un attempted user authentication challenge result etc. to the moderation of the current user account event may be received. The risk assessment model may be modified based upon the user feedback. For example if the user passed a user authentication challenge then a decision structure e.g. associated with a malicious user account context property pattern and or a malicious authentication context property pattern of the machine learning structure may be modified e.g. removed reduction of a confidence weight etc. .

In an example the risk assessment model may be applied to prior user account events of a user to generate an evaluation metric e.g. an indication as to whether the user is safe malicious compromised etc. . For example the risk assessment model may be updated with new training data e.g. newly identified malicious user account context property patterns and or malicious authentication context property patterns that may be used to retroactively block accounts that did malicious activities days weeks months ago such as by clawing back emails untrusting secondary identity claims such as alternative emails or phone numbers removing friendship relationships removing profile pictures quarantining online content stored in cloud storage etc. In this manner prior false negatives may be identified and addressed. In another example a banned user account of the user may be retroactively unbanned based upon the evaluation metric indicating that the user is safe. In this manner the risk assessment model may inhibit false positives with regard to current user account events that may otherwise for example subject a non malicious user to unnecessary authentication requirements. For example the risk assessment model may be tuned so that users associated with certain user account events do not have to answer additional authentication questions type in captchas etc. Implementing the risk assessment model may thus not only improve security but may also provide a streamlined and improved user experience by omitting unnecessary authentication requirements. At the method ends.

Turning to illustrates an example of historical authentication data illustrates an example of compromised user account data and illustrate examples of a system for generating a risk assessment model. The historical authentication data in may comprise various telemetry data indicative of authentication context properties associated with user authentication sessions. For example the historical authentication data may indicate that user A visited a website www.wehack.com has a user A social network profile with a location that did not match an IP address location of a device used to log into a user A bank account website has interacted with a device using non human keystroke patterns e.g. keystrokes per minute above a human capability threshold was unsuccessful at attempting large purchase transactions at various retail websites etc.

The historical authentication data may indicate that user B tends to log into a user B device from locations that match a user B social network profile has interacted with the user B device using human keystrokes and mouse inputs has a user B email account that does not appear to be compromised etc. The historical authentication data may be evaluated to identify a set of authentication context properties associated with user authentication sessions which may be utilized to train a risk assessment model to identify safe user account events and or malicious user account events e.g. user context properties corresponding to user A account context properties may be indicative of a malicious user account event while user context properties corresponding to user B account context properties may be indicative of a safe user account event .

With regard to the example illustrated in the compromised user account data comprises a first set of malicious account context properties associated with a compromised email account of user D and a second set of malicious account context properties associated with a compromised social network account of user E . In an example the first set of malicious account context properties may indicate that the email account of user D had a large volume of outbound messages per minute was logged into from locations that did not match an email profile location of user D that emails were sent during most hours of the day and night e.g. indicating that user D either does not sleep or that malware took over the compromised email account that multiple user password change attempts were made etc. The second set of malicious account context properties may indicate that the social network account of user E had a large volume of network posts promoting spam websites was logged into from locations that did not match a social network profile location that the account was created very quickly with little identification information that a large number of friend requests were send to unrelated users e.g. as opposed to a group of related users such as friends from the same schools as user E that a malicious program xyz was executing on a user device etc. The compromised user account data may be evaluated to identify a set of malicious account context properties associated with compromised user accounts which may be utilized to train a risk assessment model to identify safe user account events and or malicious user account events e.g. user context properties corresponding to the first set of malicious account context properties and or the second set of malicious account context properties may be indicative of a malicious user account event .

The machine learning structure may comprise a location mismatch decision structure corresponding to a location mismatch annotated context property indicating that a likelihood of malicious activity may be increased when a user context property of a user account event indicates that a login location to a service is different than a profile location of the user e.g. a user shopping account may be logged into at 9 00 am from China and then logged into at 9 30 am from London which may indicate that malicious malware distributed across multiple nations has taken over the user account . The machine learning structure may comprise a malicious site visit decision structure corresponding to a malicious site visit annotated context property indicating that a likelihood of malicious activity may be increased when a user context property of a user account event indicates that the user recently visited a malicious website service. The machine learning structure may comprise a non human keystrokes decision structure corresponding to a non human keystrokes annotated context property indicating that a likelihood of malicious activity may be increased when a user context property of a user account event indicates that interaction with a computing device mimics non human input behavior e.g. keystrokes per minute above a human capability threshold . In this way a user account event associated with one or more user context properties that satisfy the location mismatch decision structure the malicious site visit decision structure and or the non human keystrokes decision structure may be assigned a risk analysis metric indicative of a degree of maliciousness e.g. the degree of maliciousness may be increased by the number of decision structures that are satisfied and or the degree to which one or more of the decision structures are satisfied e.g. speed of keystrokes barely exceeding threshold .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Computer storage media does not however include propagated signals. Rather computer storage media excludes propagated signals. Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B and or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

