---

title: Interactive television network and method including content searching
abstract: The present invention is directed to content searching of various databases in an interactive television network; caching programming for rebroadcasting to interactive television network subscribers; and interactively offering goods and services referred to in broadcast programming to interactive television network subscribers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462303&OS=09462303&RS=09462303
owner: COMCAST CABLE COMMUNICATIONS, LLC
number: 09462303
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140926
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 313 357 filed Dec. 7 2011 entitled INTERACTIVE TELEVISION NETWORK AND METHOD INCLUDING CONTENT SEARCHING which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 848 581 filed May 3 2001 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 108 892. U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 09 848 581 and 13 313 357 are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates generally to interactive television networks and specifically to interactive television networks that provide data searching.

Recent developments in digital signal processing techniques such as digital compression techniques and multimedia content indexing techniques have enabled a variety of new digital services to be provided to a cable subscriber s home through existing telephone and coaxial cable lines. A large number of cable or CATV channels are now provided to customers by compressing digital video transmitting the compressed digital video over conventional coaxial cables and decompressing the video at the customer s set top terminal. For example video on demand enables a user or subscriber to search through metadata such as the program title to locate desired programming.

Interactive cable television systems have been implemented to provide enhanced subscriber programming services. Interactive television refers to a cable television network in which the subscriber can communicate with the network operator and or a computational component through the same communication medium used to provide broadcast streams to the subscriber. By way of example movie on demand video systems are now in use in which a subscriber communicates directly with a video service provider over coaxial cables to request a particular video program from a video library and the requested video program is thereafter routed to the subscriber s home. Web TV has been implemented which permits a subscriber to access the internet but not resources within the cable network.

While there is a tremendous need for interactive television the implementation of interactive television has been restricted to specific services and or features. There is a need for an interactive television system that permits cable network subscribers not only to access freely other data networks but to access freely components located within the interactive television network itself.

Television listing data can include for each program a title a broadcast channel a broadcast time a broadcast duration a program content description e.g. a keyword or group of words program category e.g. sports news etc. other air times and a program rating.

The programming content data includes not only digital video information but also digital audio information. The digital audio and video information is typically part of a multimedia broadcast stream to interactive television network subscribers. The digital audio information can for example be a transcription of the audio content such as closed caption information provided as part of the multimedia stream digital information that is transcribed using speech recognition techniques and the like. The digital video information can be initially in digital form or initially in analog form and digitized by known techniques. Although it is possible to search the programming content data using predefined configurations or arrangements of video information as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 459 530 and 5 987 154 to Gibbon et al. which are incorporated herein by this reference in typical applications the search would be conducted through the digital audio information. Corresponding video information to the located audio information could then be delivered to the subscriber.

The subscriber voice mail is transcribed using voice recognition techniques. The voice mail would be provided to the interactive television network through the local telephone service provider.

In various configurations the interactive television network includes other types of information for access by ITV subscribers. For example the interactive television network includes billing data for network subscribers help data to respond to questions of network subscribers personal information for each network subscriber and calendar information for each network subscriber. Personal information includes a payment method credit card information debit card information the network subscribers name and mailing address telephone number information and a history of purchases for each network subscriber.

In another embodiment a method is provided for replaying a multimedia stream to an interactive television network subscriber. The replay can be in the form of a broadcast unicast and or multicast. In the method at least a portion of the programming is recorded in memory during the replay of the programming one or more requests are received from network subscribers to replay the programming the programming is retrieved from memory and the multimedia stream replayed to one or more network subscribers to provide broadcast quality video. In one configuration the multimedia stream or programming is only recorded or cached provided a specified number of interactive television network subscribers request the recording. In another configuration the multimedia stream or broadcast programming is only replayed if the interactive television network operator receives at least a specified number of replay requests for the program.

In another embodiment a method for using interactive television network is provided that includes the following steps 

The network address could be a universal resource locator a pointer to another channel and the like. As will be appreciated a bug is a single graphic overlay on the video stream.

In an exemplary configuration the performing step includes rendering a second picture on the television presenting information related to the bug and providing the information to a network component. The performing step can also include overlaying graphics on the video stream changing channels and polling. The multimedia broadcast stream could be of any type such as a program or advertisement from a vendor. In one configuration an electronic form is completed by logic in the set top terminal or another interactive television network component and the completed or partially completed form rendered as part of the second picture on the television. In this configuration personal information associated with the interactive television network subscriber is included in the at least partially completed form. The subscriber may edit the partially completed form and or complete specified fields in the form. A confirmation request can be included in the second picture to signify confirmation or acceptance by the subscriber of the purchase agreement.

A plurality of STTs are connected across a common bi directional communication link to one of a plurality of broadband amplifiers . Amplifiers receive analog or digital signals from a corresponding head end and provide an amplified signal to the STT for presentation to the subscriber.

Head end includes a data locator for identifying the network components to receive the subscriber communications particularly interactive television network content search requests directing subscriber communications to the proper network components and configuring the communications for the network components to receive the request. Data locator can include one or more applications such as a suitable type of domain name service which resolves domain names to data or IP addresses and vice versa and or a suitable search engine known to those of skill in the art.

As will be appreciated head end receives broadcast program signals from a suitable signal transmission architecture such as satellite transmission architecture known as the head end in the sky or HITS using a satellite . Head end will therefore include a number of other components such as a cable modem termination system signal combiner router modulator and IP gateway not shown known to those of skill in the art. As will be appreciated any suitable protocol can be used to forward signals from the STT to the cable modem termination system not shown in head end . Examples of suitable protocols include DOCSIS TCP IP and HTTP.

The data locator can forward signals to the other components in the network using any of a number of protocols. Examples of suitable protocols include the TCP IP suite of protocols XML i.e. extensible mark up language LDAP i.e. Light Weight Directory Protocol SQL i.e. Structured Query Language WTVP i.e. Web TV Protocol HTTP i.e. hypertext transport protocol HTML i.e. hypertext markup language DLLs i.e. dynamic link libraries ODBC i.e. Open Database Connectivity RDBMS i.e. remote data base management system RDO i.e. Remote Data Objects ADO i.e. Active X Data Objects and CORBA i.e. Common Object Resource Broker Architecture .

Communication line can be wireless or any suitable wired medium for conveying the signals among the network components. Examples of suitable wired media include coaxial cables such as hybrid fiber cable HFC twisted pair fiber optic cable wireless and the like.

A plurality of routers determine the appropriate path a signal or a portion of a signal such as a packet takes to reach its destination. Routers can employ any routing protocol that is compatible with the particular network protocol s used.

The network provides connectivity to a number of service and or information network components. These network components include interactive television network content television listing data programming content data subscriber assistance email data subscriber billing subscriber information subscriber voice mail subscriber provisioning network operations other data networks such as the World Wide Web and other interactive television network services information discussed below.

Subscriber provisioning is discussed in detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 671 329 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 952 836 B1 to Donlan et al. entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MANAGING THE PROVISIONING OF CLIENT DEVICES CONNECTED TO AN INTERACTIVE TV NETWORK filed Sep. 26 2000 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 287 097 to Donlan et al entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVING CLIENT FROM AN INTERACTIVE TV NETWORK filed Nov. 4 2002 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 287 330 to Donlan et al. entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVISIONING CLIENT DEVICES CONNECTED TO AN INTERACTIVE TV NETWORK filed Nov. 4 2002 each of which is incorporated herein by this reference and assigned to the assignee of the present application.

Network operations monitor computers network applications and STTs so that failures or unusual behavior are noticed immediately install new applications and upgrades schedule and conduct maintenance and upgrades and create and populate data centers.

Referring to each of the network components and includes a corresponding data server that includes data storage namely interactive television network content server interactive television network subscriber information server television listing server programming content server subscriber assistance server subscriber email server subscriber billing server and subscriber voice mail server respectively. Each of the servers and have a corresponding index namely subscriber index interactive television network content index television listing index audio and video index subscriber assistance index subscriber email index subscriber billing record index and subscriber voice mail index respectively providing location or mapping information for data in the corresponding server s data storage and a corresponding search engine and respectively to perform searches in the corresponding index and server data storage. The servers indices and search engines can be implemented using any of a variety of configurations known to those skilled in the art. One or more application program interfaces interface the subscriber application with the various search engines. As will be appreciated the servers may be combined for a number of applications. For example a common server may service multiple applications.

Interactive television network subscriber information server data storage contains personal data related to each interactive television network subscriber. For example the database can include interactive television network subscriber financial information such as name address credit card number credit card expiration debit card number etc. for each interactive television network subscriber interactive television network subscriber address information for selected entities or electronic address book for each interactive television network subscriber and electronic calendar information for each interactive television network subscriber.

Interactive television network content server data storage contains data related to the identifications of the various interactive television network components or interactive offerings the types of services goods and or information offered by the components or offerings that are part of the interactive television network the network addresses of the various components or offerings metadata keyword data XML data and category data. The interactive television network content database commonly does not include such data for the internet e.g. the world wide web . The search engine will provide resulting entries containing a description of network components responsive to the subscriber s search request along with a description and indications of the data locations where the result was found.

Television listing server data storage contains for each program whether already broadcast being broadcasted or to be broadcast a title a broadcast channel a broadcast time a broadcast duration a program content description e.g. a keyword or group of words a program category e.g. sports news etc. and program rating.

Audio and video server data storage contains broadcast quality audio and video programming information for the programs broadcast by the interactive television network indexed by program. The audio programming information can be transcribed using voice recognition techniques closed caption information embedded in the video stream meta data such as meta description data and or meta key word data offline transcription post production script and combinations thereof. Index typically provides the data location information for each program. The creation maintenance and browsing of the data storage and the retrieval of audio or video information from the data storage is described in U.S. application Ser. No. 09 552 312 to Basso et al. entitled BROWSING AND RETRIEVAL OF FULL BROADCAST QUALITY VIDEO filed Feb. 19 2000 U.S. application Ser. No. 09 240 601 to Gibbon entitled Generating Hypermedia Documents from Transcriptions of Television Programs Using Parallel Text Alignment filed Feb. 1 1999 U.S. application Ser. No. 09 353 192 to Huang et al. entitled Automated Generation of News Content Hierarchy by Integrating Audio Video and Text Information filed Jul. 14 1999 U.S. Pat. No. 5 710 591 to Gibbon et al. entitled Method and Apparatus for Recording and Indexing Multimedia Conferences Meetings and U.S. Pat. No. 6 098 082 to Gibbon et al. entitled METHOD FOR PROVIDING A COMPRESSED RENDITION OF A VIDEO PROGRAM IN A FORMAT SUITABLE FOR ELECTRONIC SEARCHING AND RETRIEVAL each of which is incorporated herein by this reference and assigned to the assignee of the present application.

Transcoder can be provided to alter the appearance or the sizing of the digital programming provided to the subscriber. For example each subscriber can have a differently configured STT which may require transcoder to alter the font fields in the digital programming information provided to the subscriber. In some applications the programming information is not transcoded as shown by communication line which bypasses transcoder . The communication of the programming information to the interactive television network subscriber is described in more detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 874 986 to Gibbon et al. entitled METHOD FOR COMMUNICATING AUDIOVISUAL PROGRAMS OVER A COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK which is incorporated herein by this reference and assigned to the assignee of the present application.

Subscriber assistance server data storage includes information to assist the subscriber in using the interactive television network such as answering questions of the subscriber. Customer support personnel can also interact electronically with interactive television network subscribers through appropriate software interfaces.

Subscriber email server data storage includes email received for each interactive television network subscriber indexed by subscriber. Email index contains the locations of the email information for each interactive television network subscriber. Email database can include not only email received from other interactive television network subscribers but also email received from subscribers on the internet who may not be interactive television network subscribers. Application software permits an interactive television network subscriber to create search send receive forward reply save retrieve delete and print emails and receive and forward email attachments including picture files web links and embedded HTML.

Subscriber billing server data storage includes billing information for each interactive television network subscriber for use of the interactive television network or other services. For example the billing system could include not only billings for interactive television network service usage but also billings for telephone or internet usage. Each subscriber can therefore access and view his or her billing information whether current or historical. Subscriber billing data storage is maintained by network operator personnel and suitable software applications.

Subscriber voice mail server data storage includes digitized voice mail for each interactive television network subscriber. The analog voice mail is transcribed using voice recognition techniques to form the digitized voice mail.

Internet is connected to interactive television network via a domain name system that maps domain name to internet addresses and internet search engine performs searches for interactive television network subscribers in index to locate internet content such as a server of a service provider and or vendor on the world wide web . Examples of suitable search engines include YAHOO DOG PILE ALTA VISTA EXCITE NETSCAPE ASK JEEVES GO TO HOTBOT LOOK SMART LYCOS GOOGLE AOL Search and an aggregator of the output other Internet searches such as DOG PILE . Typically the software interface with the internet will provide the interactive television network subscriber with entries responsive to a search request along with a description and indication of the database s where results were found. A firewall and or any other suitable or security measures protect the interactive television network from unauthorized internet traffic and other undesired use by internet subscribers.

Finally other interactive television network services information can be any number of information sources service providers and or vendors that are part of the interactive television network. For example service providers can be providers of pay per view services video on demand and the like. Vendors can be retailers offering for sale or lease goods to interactive television network subscribers.

The network subscriber can use a number of different techniques to generate a search request or otherwise create a text message for transmission by the STT to another network component. As shown in the subscriber uses a remote control a physical keyboard and the like to enter the message text. shows a virtual keyboard that can be rendered on the television screen for use in conjunction with a remote control or other television control device. The keyboard includes a number of virtual keys and is displayed in the title safe area of the television screen. The remote control keys are mapped to the keys of the virtual keyboard. As the subscriber presses an appropriate button of the remote control or highlights the letter and enters the letter as a keystroke a corresponding letter or number appears in the text area displayed in another portion of the title safe area . Blanks are displayed to indicate locations for text yet to be entered. Scroll commands can be used to move forward or backward through the entered text if the text length exceeds the length of the text area . Alternatively voice recognition could be used to enter the search request text for the subscriber.

The foregoing architecture enables a variety of services to be provided to an interactive television network subscriber.

In one embodiment the architecture permits an interactive television network subscriber to perform content searching using one or more of the various network components. For example the interactive television network subscriber could determine what programs have been are being and or will be presented on the interactive television network regarding a particular topic or subject locate a desired interactive television network component review his or her billing information and or peruse his or her e mail and or voice mail. illustrate a series of commands performed by data locator in response to a search request.

In box a search request is received from an interactive television network subscriber. for example shows a search term CLINTON on the TV display that has been entered by the interactive television network subscriber. The search request is than transmitted to the subscriber s STT and then to the data locator . The data locator places the search request in the proper format and syntax for each of the search engines to be contacted and the various requests are then routed to all of the search engine s . Alternatively each of the search engines can be responsible for placing the search request in the proper format for the corresponding data storage.

In box of and in step of the various search engine s search through the corresponding index and data storage to locate information if any responsive to the entered request. The search results are aggregated in box or in step by the data locator and the data locator forwards the search results in the proper scripting language to the corresponding STT for presentation to the interactive television network subscriber. A sample of the display is shown in as TV display . The display shows that a search on the word CLINTON has located 10 items from the subscriber s phone or voice mail 20 items from his e mail and 42 items from programming content data or TV . The interactive television network subscriber scrolls through the aggregated search results selects the results of interest and causes the STT to forward the various selections to the data locator . In step of the subscriber has selected his e mail for review. The data locator in box receives the content source s selected by the interactive television network subscriber retrieves or locates the information associated with the selected content source s and forwards the information or the network location of the located data to the subscriber. The pertinent information is then displayed in box in a predetermined or user selected order to the interactive television network subscriber. If the information is forwarded directly to the subscriber the information is downloaded to the STT and displayed. If the information location is forwarded to the subscriber the subscriber communicates directly with the server accessing the data storage and sequentially downloads the information during viewing of the information. In either event the subscriber could forward the information location or network address or information itself to another interactive television network subscriber via email as an attachment or via some other electronic interface if desired. The subscriber could view retrieved video or written information and hear any corresponding audio information over his or her television or hear retrieved voice mail messages over his or her television.

Using the above methodology a subscriber or group of subscribers could request a program to be recorded in the programming content data for viewing at a later time. If the number of record requests exceed n the program would be recorded. The subscriber s could then be notified of the time and date of rebroadcasting or could record the select time and date of rebroadcasting. The available memory space of the server may cause the interactive television network subscriber s to have only a limited time period in which to request broadcasting of the program.

Alternatively the multimedia stream could be a program and the bug a request for recording the program on network memory space assigned to the interactive television network subscriber as noted above . Alternatively the bug could be a vote indicator to provide polling of interactive television network subscribers on a selected issue or candidate during programming. This application would be particularly useful for political polling of an issue or candidate.

While this invention has been described in conjunction with the specific embodiments thereof it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly preferred embodiments of the invention as set forth herein are intended to be illustrative not limiting. By way of example the ordering or sequence of the steps may be reversed or rearranged in an order other than that set forth above. Steps may be omitted from the various processes described above. Interactive television network components described above can be omitted or replaced by other interactive television network components. One or more of the indices could be an intelligent index. In this configuration the index would have logic that would have a search capability. The search engine for the database may therefore be unnecessary. In the description of the indices set forth above the indices do not have logic and rely on the search engine for the performance of the search. The various network components could be consolidated or further subdivided or could be located in different parts of the network. For example the data locator could be located in a central network location and not in each head end as discussed above. The set top terminal may be discrete from or integral with the television Moreover the teachings of the present invention are not limited to interactive television network networks but are extendible to any network offering good s or service s to subscribers or nonsubscribers. These and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

