---

title: Systems and methods for providing product recommendations
abstract: Apparatuses, methods, and non-transitory computer readable medium that provide recommendations include determining personality traits of a sender and a recipient by applying a five-factor model to a plurality of datasets. Further, the method comprises associating a personality-product score with each of a plurality of products based on the personality traits and performing a need analysis on the user data to determine desired products from amongst the plurality of products. Further, the method comprises determining a multidimensional collaborative matrix by aggregating the personality traits, the personality-product score, the desired products, and product psychographic portfolio. Further, the method comprises determining an affinity score for at least one of the sender and the recipient towards each of the plurality of products based on the multidimensional collaborative matrix and recommending at least one product from amongst the plurality of products to the sender based on the affinity score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454782&OS=09454782&RS=09454782
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09454782
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20141219
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application No. 4658 CHE 2014 filed Sep. 24 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This technology relates to recommender systems and particularly but not exclusively to systems and methods for providing product recommendations.

Nowadays recommendation systems have become so common that they are used in various applications such as products articles movies songs and books for making recommendation to users. Product recommendation systems are generally implemented with e commerce websites to recommend products that are available on an e commerce website and suit user requirements. To recommend products to a user the product recommend systems may use various filtering techniques such as collaborative filtering content based filtering and hybrid filtering which is combination of the collaborative filtering and the content based filtering. In the collaborative filtering behavior of the user is monitored and analyzed to recommend products. Some product recommendation systems may also consider behavior of other users who have similar traits or characteristics to the user under consideration. In the content based filtering historical browsing history of the user may be considered to make product recommendations. In the hybrid filtering the product recommendation systems may employ both the techniques to make accurate product recommendations.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for providing product recommendations. In one example the system comprises a processor a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to determine personality traits of a sender and a recipient by applying a five factor model to a plurality of datasets obtained from user data. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to associate a personality product score with each of a plurality of products based on the personality traits. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to perform a need analysis on the user data to determine desired products from amongst the plurality of products. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to determine a multidimensional collaborative matrix by aggregating the personality traits of the sender and the recipient the personality product score the desired products and product psychographic portfolio. The product psychographic portfolio comprises elasticity of affinity toward each of the plurality of products with respect to the personality traits of the sender and the recipient. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to determine an affinity score for at least one of the sender and the recipient towards each of the plurality of products based on the multidimensional collaborative matrix. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to recommend at least one product from amongst the plurality of products to the sender based on the affinity score.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure relates to a method for providing product recommendations comprises determining personality traits of a sender and a recipient by applying a five factor model to a plurality of datasets obtained from user data. Further the method comprises associating a personality product score with each of a plurality of products based on the personality traits. Further the method comprises performing a need analysis on the user data to determine desired products from amongst the plurality of products. Further the method comprises determining a multidimensional collaborative matrix by aggregating the personality traits of the sender and the recipient the personality product score the desired products and product psychographic portfolio. The product psychographic portfolio comprises elasticity of affinity toward each of the plurality of products with respect to the personality traits of the sender and the recipient. Further the method comprises determining an affinity score for at least one of the sender and the recipient towards each of the plurality of products based on the multidimensional collaborative matrix. Further the method comprises recommending at least one product from amongst the plurality of products to the sender based on the affinity score.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions for providing product recommendations that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations comprising determining personality traits of the sender and a recipient by applying a five factor model to a plurality of datasets obtained from user data. Further the operations comprise associating a personality product score with each of a plurality of products based on the personality traits. Further the operations comprise performing a need analysis on the user data to determine desired products from amongst the plurality of products. Further the operations comprise determining a multidimensional collaborative matrix by aggregating the personality traits of the sender and the recipient the personality product score the desired products and product psychographic portfolio. The product psychographic portfolio comprises elasticity of affinity toward each of the plurality of products with respect to the personality traits of the sender and the recipient. Further the operations comprise determining an affinity score for at least one of the sender and the recipient towards each of the plurality of products based on the multidimensional collaborative matrix. Further the operations comprise recommending at least one product from amongst the plurality of products to the sender based on the affinity score.

Additional objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the following detailed description and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the present disclosure. The objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the figures the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Generally conventional recommender systems are addressed to a single user accessing an application. Recommendations from such recommender systems are not useful when a person referred to as a sender wants to buy a product or avail a service for another person referred to as a recipient. In other words the conventional recommender systems may not be able to recommend products accurately when the product is an entity of exchange between two persons. Some of the conventional recommender systems may use sender s information and rely on sender s judgments about preferences of the recipient for making the recommendations.

Also in scenario of gifting of a product the conventional recommender systems may not consider type and strength of relation existing between the sender and the recipient. Further since the conventional recommender systems do not consider possible occurrence of coincidence and diversity in the receipt of gifts with the conventional recommender system the recipient may receive similar gifts from multiple senders.

The present subject matter discloses systems and methods for providing product recommendations. The systems and methods may be implemented in a variety of computing systems. The computing systems that can implement the described method s include but are not limited to a server a desktop personal computer a notebook or a portable computer and a mainframe computer. Although the description herein is with reference to certain computing systems the systems and methods may be implemented in other computing systems albeit with a few variations as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

Apparatuses methods and non transitory computer readable media of the present subject matter provide improved product recommendations by considering a third person perspective for recommendations. The present subject matter uses personality elasticity coefficients of products with a five factor model for determining personality traits of a sender and a recipient. The present subject matter aggregates correlated elements such as motivation of transaction product psychographic portfolio sender and recipient profiles and their interpersonal relationship past transactions between them and affinity towards products.

Further the present subject matter co ordinates with inventory manager to derive the product entities to be pushed or pulled during the recommendation process. It provides sellers with a framework which enables incorporation of their business strategies into the recommender system. Also affinity to certain products may depend greatly on certain personality traits whereas affinity towards some others may remain more or less the same. The systems and methods of present subject matter leverage this difference in personality elasticity of products to favor less favorite products. The personality elasticity of products may be understood as elasticity of affinity towards products with respect to a personality profile of the sender and or the recipient.

Working of the apparatuses methods and non transitory computer readable media that provide product recommendations is described by way of examples in conjunction with . It should be noted that the description and drawings merely illustrate the principles of the present subject matter. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the present subject matter and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore all examples recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the present subject matter and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the present subject matter as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass equivalents thereof. While aspects of the systems and methods can be implemented in any number of different computing systems environments and or configurations the embodiments are described in the context of the following exemplary system architecture s .

Further as shown in the correlation engine and the affinity prediction engine comprise sub modules. The correlation engine comprises a personality product engine a need analyzer and a collaborative builder . The affinity prediction engine comprises a personality inclination miner and an affinity score generator .

In operations to provide product recommendations to a sender considering a perspective of a recipient also the data ingestor may receive user data from at least one data source to determine personality or characteristics of the sender and the recipient. The user data may include information related to the sender and the recipient such as age gender relation between the sender and the recipient occasion upcoming events behavior past browsing history social profile feeds and personal preferences.

In one example the data ingestor may comprise multiple adapters and listeners to continuously listen to the user data from different sources. The user data may be further analyzed based on parameters such as demography occasion gender age group and relation type to determine a plurality of products suitable for the recommendations.

As shown in there are multiple channels to direct flow of data to the storage layer . In an example the storage layer may be used for storing the user received by the system and any other data generated during the product recommendations.

The configuration manager may allow a user to configure various parameters such as occasion gender demography relationship type and strength. The configuration manager may enable the user to select fields in the user data that may include relevant information for processing. Further the configuration manager may specify time periods needed for specific analysis components such as number of days of information to be mined for occasion analysis and number of months of data to be processed for personality prediction. The configuration manager may allow the user to configure inputs dedicated to changing business goals decisions strategies and vision which may help in analyzing information present in the MIS .

The application manager may create a platform to receive user s consent for mining of additional information regarding him her from sources like social media profiles and feeds. The application manager may collect information such as interaction between users linked connected on social media family tree recent likes conversation history areas of interest location recent posts updates queries communities followed or belonging to pages liked advertisements browsed. The platform may also have customized privacy settings that expands purchasers network through inviting friends. In one example the application manager may also be used to schedule gifts share feedback on products and customer experience.

The intranet source module may listen for data from multiple databases. After listening to relevant information the intranet source module may perform data distribution analysis to find out whether the provided information is sufficient enough to perform analysis or not. The intranet source module may also indicate information that is incomplete to the user. Further upon performing the data distribution analysis the intranet source module may perform a correlation analysis to build a full lifecycle of a transaction.

The internet source module may listen for data from multiple social media sources from various social media websites. The user data may be extracted through usage of crawlers and application programming interface API services. Once the user data is obtained the internet source module may perform data filtration. Then the internet source module may determine what all information is useful for analytics and building 360 degree profile of the sender and the recipient.

Further the segmentation engine may segment the user data received based on segmentation rules to obtain a plurality of datasets. The segmentation has been explained in details in conjunction with .

The language predictor may use libraries to identify language of text present in the user data. Identification of user s language may help in understanding user preferences based on demography and language culture differentiation. The age predictor employs various techniques to determine age of the user. The techniques may include analyzing images social profile and education job profile. The gender identifier may employ similar technique to determine gender of the user. Further the ethnicity predictor may identify ethnicity of the user by using image processing techniques on facial images of the user. In an example if ethnicity of the user is explicitly known then ethnicity determined through the image processing techniques may be validated using known result which may be then utilized to improve accuracy of the ethnicity predictor .

Further the transaction nature miner comprises sub modules such as a motivation predictor a relation type identifier and a relation strength predictor . The motivation predictor may identify motivation behind purchasing a product for the recipient. In an example to identify the motivation the motivation predictor may build taxonomy of all events occasions important for the recipient. Then the motivation predictor may capture social media insights of the recipient from past few weeks months. In case there is no specific occasion the motivation predictor may suggest forthcoming events or calendar occasions. The relation type identifier may identify relation type between the sender and the recipient. The relation type could be formal informal or even a blood relation. The relation type predictor may identify the relation type by analyzing family tree information present ages of sender and recipient age difference between them membership in groups communities occupation information on mutual friends connections conversation history relationship status and tagging to updates. The relation strength predictor is based on a scoring model which accounts for factors like frequency timing and kind of mutual interaction on internet platforms commonality in location or occupation or common communities commonality in tagging images or videos of them occurring together and so on. The strength of bonding has a potential to influence quality and cost of items of potential purchase.

Once information from the demography miner and the transaction nature miner obtained the information aggregator may aggregate the information. In an example the information aggregator may store the aggregated information in the form of multi dimensional cubes where entities such as occasion age gender and relationship type are treated as dimensions. Each cube may comprise segment of information about people who fall at the intersection of n dimensions. In one example dynamic hierarchy may be based on configuration settings specified by the configuration manager .

Further the segmentation analyzer may assimilate information from an existing transaction data pool and data cubes conceived by the segmentation engine . The transaction analyzer may analyze past occurrences of transactions. In an example the transactions involving people belonging to specific age group gender ethnicity and language in the event of particular events occasions are separately identified by the transaction analyzer based on mode of involvement being as the sender or the recipient. In both the modes the products transacted are associated or tagged separately onto the corresponding segment of the data cube. In this manner the plurality of datasets in the form of data cubes is obtained.

Thereafter the personality prediction engine may determine personality traits of the sender and the recipient by applying a five factor model to the plurality of datasets. Working of personality prediction engine is discussed in conjunction with .

Thereafter the scoring engine may compute a score for each of the personality traits. In an example the scoring engine may then assign a predefined weight to multiple objective and subjective factors which can be meaningful to assess a personality trait. Further during computation of an aggregate score the scoring engine may perform normalization based on the variation of scores for all personality traits of the sender and the recipient. Furthermore the scoring engine may perform a second level of normalization based on scores of all users in a repository maintained by the system . The scoring engine may then represent the scores assigned to the personality traits on a common scale which provides a common platform for comparison. In this manner personality traits of the sender and the recipient are identified and represented on the common scale.

Further in process of the product recommendation the system may also coordinate with the MIS to determine products that are to be pushed or pulled during the recommendation manner. This allows a seller to incorporate business strategies into the system . Working of the MIS is discussed in conjunction with .

The product profiler may determine product psychographic portfolio comprising elasticity of affinity towards each of the plurality of products with respect to the personality traits of the sender and the recipient. It may be noted that affinity to certain products may depend greatly on certain personality traits whereas affinity towards some others may remain more or less the same.

The product profiler determines the product psychographic portfolio through a product centered personality profiling. In an example the product profiler may plot count of persons who are positive towards a product against their corresponding scores for all the five personality traits in a multi dimensional space. In such plots higher count of persons may indicate affinity towards a product. Also a surface comprising highest values of affinity found corresponding to each combination of personality scores may be modeled to capture interdependence of the big five personality traits. For a particular product the product profiler may compute mean value of personality scores for each the personality traits of all persons who exhibited affinity towards the product. At this specific point on the surface partial differentiation with respect to each axis of personality trait may be carried out to determine a big five elasticity coefficient for each personality trait. The big five elasticity coefficient of a personality trait represents difference or variation in the affinity towards product with respect to variation in that personality trait. The value of elasticity of a product with respect to a personality trait is higher if a difference in personality trait is significant in causing a variation in the affinity towards that particular product. Similarly the product profiler may also generate set of big five elasticity coefficients for each product which may be further normalized with respect to the entire product database. In an example the set of big five elasticity coefficients and the product list received from the MIS may be used to obtain the product psychographic portfolio. In this manner product profiler may determine the product psychographic portfolio.

Further since offering or gifting of a product between two entities inherently carries a signature of both the sender and the recipient the product profiler may determine the product psychographic portfolio of certain products in two modes i.e. one is created considering the big five personality trait scores of the senders of the product alone and the other is created with regard to the recipient. Thereby a certain product may have two sets of big five elasticity coefficients associated with it one for the sender and the other for the recipient.

Thereafter the correlation engine may aggregate information received from the segmentation analyzer and the product profiler such as motivation of transaction the product psychographic portfolio sender and recipient profiles and their interpersonal relationship and the past transactions. The correlation engine also receives inputs from the personality product engine and the need analyzer .

The personality product engine may determine a personality product score for each of the plurality of products based on the personality traits. In an example the personality product engine may associate the personality product score with the each of the plurality of products. The personality product score may indicate a relative preference if any assigned to a product based on the personality traits. In an example the personality product engine may compute the personality product score using a rule based model based on configurations settings present with the configuration manager or with the aid of a classifier created using the historical transactions. Thus the personality product engine performs a compatibility check to assess acceptance of a product in terms of its attributes other than psychographic profiling given user s personality attributes. For instance a newly launched product shall be recommended to users with a preference for novelty and variety whereas a well established product can be offered to a user who prefers a planned approach.

The need analyzer may perform a need analysis on the user data to determine desired products from amongst the plurality of products. The need analyzer may keep track of needs implicitly or explicitly expressed by the sender and the recipient. In an example the need analyzer may identify the need from varied sources such as products added to wish lists or carts intent of buying discussed in conversation history recent likes browsing pattern and time spent on products advertisements browsed recently posted queries related transactions carried out and participation in groups communities forum. In this manner the need analyzer may take care of situations where items are already purchased by the sender recipient for self or received by him her as a gift. Thereby eliminating possibility of a person receiving multiple similar gifts. Consequently a set of products from amongst the plurality of products are identified as the desired products by the need analyzer .

Once the personality traits of the sender and the recipient the personality product score the desired products and psychographic product portfolio are available the collaborative builder may aggregate all of them together to obtain a multidimensional collaborative matrix.

In an example at a unit cube formed by intersection of all dimensions lies set of people belonging to specific age group gender ethnicity location and language the products sent and received by them in the event of particular events occasions and relationship of a specific type and strength. The collaborative builder may link information regarding personality types of people involved and their recent needs implicitly or explicitly expressed and captured by the need analyzer product profiles built based on the product psychographic portfolio and other relevant attributes personality product score and product prioritization given by the MIS . Thus the collaborative builder determines the multidimensional collaborative matrix.

Subsequently the affinity prediction engine may evaluate suitability of the products for recommendation based on the multidimensional collaborative matrix and a feedback received by the feedback engine from the sender. The affinity prediction engine may evaluate the suitability by determining an affinity score for the sender and the recipient towards each of the plurality of products.

To determine the affinity towards a product the personality inclination miner may fetch the two sets of big five elasticity coefficients one for the sender and the other for the recipient. Then the personality inclination miner may determine change in product affinity of the sender and the recipient towards a product based on the general benchmark of the personality trait scores computed by the product profiler . In an example the determination of increased decreased product affinity may be undertaken for the sender and the recipient separately by using their corresponding personality scores and big five elasticity coefficients.

The big five elasticity coefficients computed by the product profiler may contribute to the suitability of a product on the basis of the personality traits and uniformity or skewness in the significance values of personality traits favoring the product. The personality inclination miner may leverage the difference in personality elasticity of products to favor less favorited products. In an example larger the elasticity coefficient value larger is the variation in product affinity with personality trait variation and larger is the significance of that trait. For a particular product computation of change or variation in the affinity by the personality inclination miner is provided below.

In an example the affinity may be expressed as a function of personality scores of users in existing database and incoming new user as shown in Equation 1. Affinity Score Equation 1

Where O openness C conscientiousness E extraversion A agreeableness and N neuroticism are the personality traits.

The personality inclination miner may compute mean value of personality scores for each of the personality traits for all users present in the repository who exhibited affinity towards the product. The mean value of the personality traits may be represented as Od Cd Ed Ad Nd .

Then the personality scores may be computed for a new user considered for the analysis and the personality scores are represented as Ou Cu Eu Au Nu .

Thereafter change or variation in the affinity value dA between the new user and the users who have exhibited affinity towards the product is calculated using Equation 2. Equation 2

Where o c e a n are the big five elasticity coefficients computed at the point Od Cd Ed Ad Nd on the surface modelled.

In an example big five elasticity coefficient for a personality trait such as openness o may be equal to partial derivative of a function f with respect to the trait O .

Further higher the value of dA the greater is the affinity of the user of interest towards the product. Determination of the change in the affinity helps in attributing more weightage to smaller variations in trait of a person from the general benchmark if the trait is significant. The affinity of a user towards a product indicates whether the product is suitable for recommending to the user. This tactics checks the system from overlooking an opportunity to suggest a product appealing to lesser number of personality categories while recommending a generally liked product. For example a hit for a popular product should not be at the opportunity cost of a hit for a lesser favorited one. This enhancement is attributed to understanding of the range of personality profiles a product may cater to by analysis of variation of product affinity with respect to variation in personality traits.

Further the affinity score generator may compute the affinity score for the sender and the recipient towards the products and the associate the affinity score with the sender and recipient. In an example depending on the nature and functionaries of the impending transaction this affinity score generator may generate a list of tentative products for recommendation and prioritizes them by computing the aggregate affinity score for each as per the configuration settings in the configuration manager . Thereafter depending upon the affinity score of the sender and recipient the affinity score generator may shortlist the products from amongst the plurality of products that are likely to be recommended to persons who are similar to a recipient and are likely to be bought for others by persons similar to the sender. The product may be then added to a list of tentative products for recommendation.

Thereafter the affinity prediction engine may prioritize the products based on the affinity score and inputs received from the need analyzer the personality product engine and the personality inclination miner . In an example the need analyzer may give directive on the list of items needed by the recipient which fall within the purchasing power of the sender. The personality product engine may provide information on product acceptance levels of users depending on the correlation between user s personality traits and product attributes like its stability or status in market. The personality inclination miner may provide information on increased or decreased product affinity determined for both sender and recipient separately by using their corresponding personality scores and the big five elasticity coefficients. The affinity prediction engine may calculate the affinity score by performing statistical aggregation operations on the scores awarded by the components such as the need analyzer the personality product engine and the personality inclination miner .

The recommendation engine may then provide real time recommendation to customers based on the affinity score. The prediction engine may employ fast queuing mechanism to queue all user requests and then with the help of horizontally scalable worker nodes performs the recommendation to customer based on personality based on elasticity coefficient demography age group gender occasion relationship etc. To perform faster recommendation the recommendation engine may use multiple optimization techniques where the model is distributed localized and pre loaded. The recommendation engine is communicatively coupled to the feedback engine . The feedback engine captures a feedback from user which helps in improving recommendation and simultaneously helps in improving user experience.

In an example the feedback engine may track and collect user responses. The user responses may be then provided to the affinity prediction engine . Further the feedback engine may also capture implicit and explicit expressions of user interest and store in the storage layer . The expression of the user interest may be then used in determining products affinity of users.

Thus the system disclosed by the present subject matter is multi dimensional and is also multi hierarchical in nature. The system may first select the dimension in different levels and then analyze the multiple hierarchies to recommend a product that meets the requirement of the user. The present subject matter adopts an integral approach encompassing motivation of exchange the product psychographic portfolio personality traits of the sender and the recipient and their interpersonal relationship. Also the system may co ordinate with the inventory manager to derive the product entities to be pushed or pulled during the recommendation process. Thereby incorporating seller strategies for catalyzing less favorite products into the system .

The methods and may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The methods and may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communication network. In a distributed computing environment computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The order in which the methods and are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the methods and or alternative methods. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods and without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the methods and can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

With reference to method as depicted in as shown in step personality traits of a sender and a recipient are determined by applying a five factor model to a plurality of datasets obtained from user data. In an example the personality prediction engine may determine the personality traits by applying the five factor model the plurality of datasets. The plurality of datasets is obtained from the user data by segmenting the user data based on the segmentation rules. Further the user data comprising information about the sender and the recipient is received from at least one data source.

In an example to validate the user data the data ingestor may initialize configuration settings. Then the data ingestor may receive the user data from the at least one data source. The at least one data source may include internal and external data sources. The data ingestor may then preprocess the user data based on the configuration settings. During preprocessing data which is sufficient to mine parameters and pertaining to the required time period of analysis may be filtered and stored in the storage layer . Further the data ingestor may correlate data attributes obtained from the data sources based on the preprocessing. The correlation between relevant attributes obtained from multiple sources of data is used as confirmatory check to match between the corresponding profiles of users spread across sources. Further the data ingestor may analyze correlated data attributes to validate the user data. By validation the data ingestor determines whether provided information in the user data is sufficient to perform subsequent analysis or not. The data ingestor may also indicate what all information is incomplete by performing a distribution analysis.

Once the user data is received the segmentation analyzer may segment the user data based on the segmentation rules to obtain a plurality of datasets. In an example the segmentation analyzer may perform the segmentation of the user data based on demographic attributes and nature of transaction to obtain the plurality of datasets. Subsequently the personality prediction engine may apply the five factor model to the plurality of datasets to determine the personality traits of the sender and the recipient.

At step a personality product score with each of a plurality of products is associated based on the personality traits. The personality product score may indicate correlation of the personality traits of the sender and the recipient with lifecycle stages of the plurality of products. For instance a newly launched product may be recommended to users that are open to novelty and variety in products. In an example the personality product engine may determine and then associate the personality product score with each of the plurality of products.

At step a need analysis is performed on the user data to determine desired products from amongst the plurality of products. In an example the need analyzer may perform the need analysis to determine the desired products. The desired products are products that meet requirement and interest of the user. The need analyzer may determine the desired products based on the information such as products added to wish lists or shopping carts intent of buying expressed in conversation history recent likes browsing pattern and time spent on product browsing advertisement browsed posted queries and participation in groups and forums discussing products.

At step a multidimensional collaborative matrix is determined by aggregating the personality traits of the sender and the recipient the personality product score the desired products and the product psychographic portfolio. In an example the collaborative builder may aggregate the information such as the personality traits of the sender and the recipient the personality product score the desired products the product psychographic portfolio a product list obtained from MIS to obtain the multidimensional collaborative matrix. The product psychographic portfolio may comprise elasticity of affinity toward each of the plurality of products with respect to the personality traits of the sender and the recipient. In an example the product profiler may determine the product psychographic portfolio based on the product list and big five elasticity coefficients. Further the product list comprises products with high priority in the MIS . In an example the MIS may help in incorporating business strategies into the system so that the recommendations suit interest of the sellers also. The big five elasticity coefficients indicate variation in affinity towards a product with respect to variation in each of the personality traits.

At step an affinity score is determined for at least one of the sender and the recipient towards each of the plurality of products based on the multidimensional collaborative matrix. In an example the affinity prediction engine may receive inputs from the need analyzer the personality product engine and the personality inclination miner. The inputs may comprise various scores such as score indicating need the personality product score and the affinity towards the products. The affinity prediction engine may perform statistical aggregation operations on the inputs to determine the affinity score for both the sender and the recipient towards each of the plurality of products.

At step at least one product from amongst the plurality of products is recommended to the sender based on the affinity score. In an example the recommendation engine may recommend the products based on the affinity score of the sender and the recipient towards the products. The recommendation engine may receive a feedback from the feedback engine . The feedback may indicate user experience with the recommendations and whether the user actually buys the recommended product. Further the feedback engine may monitor responses received from the sender and the recipient post recommendation also to improve further recommendations.

With reference to method as depicted in as shown in step the feedback on the at least one product recommended is received from the sender. In an example the feedback engine may monitor user response to determine the feedback.

At step a revised affinity score for the at least one product is determined based on the feedback. In an example upon receiving the feedback the feedback engine may provide the feedback to the affinity prediction engine . Subsequently based on the feedback the affinity prediction engine may determine the revised affinity score for the sender towards the product.

At step new products from the plurality of products are recommended based on the revised affinity score. In an example the recommendation engine may then receive the revised affinity score and make fresh recommendations based on the revised affinity score.

Thus the present subject matter provides recommendation to the sender by considering various factors. The systems and the methods of present subject matter consider motivation of exchange the product psychographic portfolio the personality traits of the sender and the recipient relationship type and business strategies of sellers to make the recommendations.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the product recommendation computing apparatus may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some examples a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some examples the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the product recommendation computing apparatus may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some examples the product recommendation computing apparatus may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some examples the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the product recommendation computing apparatus . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the product recommendation computing apparatus such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some examples the product recommendation computing apparatus may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some examples the product recommendation computing apparatus may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some examples the product recommendation computing apparatus may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some examples product recommendation computing apparatus may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described systems and methods for providing product recommendations. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more non transitory computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A non transitory computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a non transitory computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

