---

title: Systems and methods for projecting images from a computer system
abstract: Methods, systems and devices are described for place shifting media content from a computer system to a remotely-located display over a network. The media content to be place shifted is captured at the computer system, wherein the media content includes a portion of imagery presented on a local display associated with the computer system. The captured media content is transcoded or otherwise converted to a media stream in a format that is transmittable on the network. The media stream is then transmitted on the network for presentation on the remotely-located display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600222&OS=09600222&RS=09600222
owner: Sling Media Inc.
number: 09600222
owner_city: Foster City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140228
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 408 460 filed Mar. 20 2009 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROJECTING IMAGES FROM A COMPUTER SYSTEM which claims priority to U.S. Provisional application Ser. No. 61 095 306 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PRESENTING MEDIA CONTENT OBTAINED FROM MULTIPLE SOURCES and filed on Sep. 8 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and which also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 141 921 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROJECTING IMAGES FROM A COMPUTER SYSTEM and filed on Dec. 31 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to placeshifting of media content for presentation on a remotely located television or other display.

In the past consumers generally viewed television programming and or other streaming content as it was received live from a network broadcast cable or satellite source. As analog and digital recording devices e.g. video cassette recorders as well as digital personal video recorders became more prevalent consumers were increasingly able to shift their media viewing to more convenient viewing times. Even more recently the ability to place shift media viewing from one location to another has become more widespread. Using the various SLINGBOX products available from Sling Media of Foster City Calif. for example consumers are able remotely view television programming or other media content that is provided by a receiver media player recorder or other media source that is physically located at a different place than the viewer. Traditionally content has been placeshifted primarily from a receiver or recorder over a digital network to a personal computer wireless phone or other portable device.

Consumers are also showing increased interest in non traditional sources of content. Streaming video received via the Internet or another network for example is becoming very commonplace such content is typically enjoyed on a computer display however rather than on a television set. Moreover many consumers now have video cameras or other equipment for generating their own content. Much of this content is in digital format that is presently most readily viewed on a personal computer or other digital computing device.

As a result it is desirable to create systems methods and or devices that allow placeshifting of media content from a computer system or the like to a television or other remote display. These and other desirable features and characteristics will become apparent from the subsequent detailed description and the appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and this background section.

Methods systems and devices are described for place shifting media content from a computer system to a remotely located display over a network. The media content to be place shifted is captured at the computer system wherein the media content includes a portion of imagery presented on a local display associated with the computer system. The captured media content is transcoded or otherwise converted to a media stream in a format that is transmittable on the network. The media stream is then transmitted on the network for presentation on the remotely located display.

Other embodiments provide a computer program product comprising instructions stored on a digital storage medium and executable by a digital processor associated with a computer system having a local display and an interface to a network. The computer program product comprises first logic for configurably capturing the media content to be place shifted at the computer system wherein the media content comprises a portion of imagery presented on the local display that is selected by a user of the computer system second logic for converting the captured media content to a media stream in a format that is transmittable on the network and third logic for transmitting the media stream on the network for presentation on the remotely located display.

Still other embodiments provide a system for place shifting media content to a remotely located display over a network. The system comprises a first interface to the network a second interface to a local display and a processor configured to capture the media content to be place shifted at the computer system wherein the media content comprises a portion of imagery presented on the local display to convert the captured media content to a media stream in a format that is routable on the network and to transmit the media stream via the first interface for presentation on the remotely located display.

The following detailed description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the invention or the application and uses of the invention. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any theory presented in the preceding background or the following detailed description.

In various embodiments a media placeshifting system is provided that allows media content displayed on a conventional personal computer or other computer system to be shifted across a network of any sort for display at a remotely located television or other display. That is audio and or visual media that is rendered at a computer system can be transmitted across the network so that the content can be enjoyed at another location. This may be beneficial for example in watching streaming video or other content that is traditionally viewed on a computer display on a conventional television set. Placeshifting may also be used to view custom created content websites presentations and or any other content that most conveniently rendered on a local computer display at another location or on another remote display. Different and or additional features and benefits may be provided in any number of alternate implementations.

According to some embodiments the placeshifting features are used in conjunction with a media catcher device that allows the customer user to connect multiple media experiences on a common television or other display. The catcher device may be able to receive a network media stream from a remotely located placeshifting device for example as well as media streams from any sort of personal computer web server and or other network sources. In various further embodiments the media catcher device is also able to process content that is stored locally on a hard disk flash drive or other digital storage device. Various embodiments of the media catcher device may therefore allow the user to access audio visual content from multiple sources including sources that are remotely located on a common television or other display.

Turning now to the drawing figures and with initial reference to an exemplary placeshifting system suitably includes a media catcher device that communicates with a placeshifting device a personal computer and or any number of content servers via network . Media catcher may also receive content from a locally connected storage device as appropriate. Media content received from any of the various sources is processed at media catcher to present the content to the user on display and or to otherwise create desired user experiences as appropriate.

Media catcher device is any media device component logic or system capable of receiving content from one or more sources and of processing the received content to produce a desired experience for the user. Media catcher may be any sort of media player for example including any type of dedicated player with an integrated or external display or any sort of general purpose computing or communications device that is able to render media content for a viewer user. Such devices may include without limitation any sort of portable or non portable computer system personal digital assistant cellular or other wireless phone video game system media player and or the like. In such embodiments media catcher will typically include a media player software application that is able to receive decode and render media content streams from one or more sources for presentation on a integrated or other local display. Standalone type media catchers will also typically include software or firmware capable of receiving and decoding media streams with decoded output provided to a television or other external display as desired. Various types of media catchers may be further responsive to user commands received via a remote control and or any other input device to obtain desired content from any number of content sources and to format the obtained content for display to the user.

Some types of media catchers may incorporate a built in display such as the display in a laptop or other portable computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant and or the like. In other embodiments wherein media catcher provides video output signals to an external display such signals may be provided in any compatible format. In embodiments wherein display is a conventional television for example media catcher device may provide video output signals in any conventional format such as component video S video High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Digital Visual Interface DVI IEEE 1394 Sony Philips Display Interface Format SPDIF and or any other formats as desired.

Many different media shifting scenarios could be formulated based upon available computing and communications resources. In various embodiments consumers may wish to placeshift content within a home office or other structure such as from a computer system to a media catcher associated with a television or other display that may be located in another room or otherwise in relatively close physical proximity within a structure. In such embodiments the content stream will typically be provided over a wired and or wireless local area network operating within the structure. In other embodiments consumers may wish to placeshift content over a broadband or similar network connection from a primary location to a media catcher device located in a second home office hotel or other remote location.

To that end network is any digital or other communications network capable of transmitting messages between senders and receivers. In various embodiments network may represent a wide area network a local area network and or any combination of wide and local area networks. In embodiments wherein media catcher is located at a different building or other remote location from a desired content source for example network no can include any number of public or private data connections links or networks supporting any number of communications protocols. Network may include the Internet for example or any other network based upon TCP IP or other conventional protocols. In many embodiments system is wholly or largely implemented within a relatively small geographical area e.g. within a home or other structure . In such embodiments network no may represent a conventional local area network such as one or more IEEE 802.3 and or IEEE 802.11 networks. Network no as shown in then is intended to broadly encompass any digital communications network s systems or architectures for transmitting data between the various components of system .

As noted above media catcher device is able to receive media content from any number of content sources via network . In various embodiments computer executes software that is able to capture encode and transmit a video stream to media catcher over network . The video stream may be for example a Windows Media Quicktime and or MPEG stream although any other standard or proprietary format could be equivalently used.

In embodiments that incorporate this type of placeshifting feature computer typically executes a software program that captures encodes and transmits a portion or the entirety of a screen display viewable on a monitor associated with computer . Such embodiments may for example encode a portion of a screen display bitmap into a streaming format that can be transmitted on the media. A media file or clip for example that would ordinarily be viewed on the computer display could be simultaneously or alternately transmitted to media catcher for presentation on display . In other embodiments computer transmits media data in any sort of streaming file based batch or other format to media catcher for display as desired and as described more fully below.

In further embodiments media catcher may be able to also receive media streams from one or more placeshifting devices . Placeshifting device suitably packetizes media content received from a media source for transmission over communications network . To that end placeshifting device is any component hardware software logic and or the like capable of transmitting a packetized stream of media content over network . Although shows only a single placeshifting device in practice system may include any number of placeshifting devices and or media sources each of which may be able to stream media content to media catcher .

Each placeshifting device incorporates suitable transcoder logic to convert audio video or other media data into a packetized format e.g. MPEG QuickTime Windows Media and or the like that can be transmitted over network . The media data may be in any format and may be received from any source such as any digital or analog recording device e.g. a digital video recorder any broadcast cable or satellite television programming source any video on demand or similar source a player for any sort of digital video disk DVD or other removable media a security or other video camera and or the like. Placeshifting device may also provide control instructions to one or more media sources using any sort of infrared radio frequency or other signals . Such signals may be provided for example from an IR Blaster or similar feature that emulates infrared or other RF instructions provided from a remote control associated with the media source . U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0095471 describes one example of a placeshifting encoder although the concepts described herein could be used in conjunction with products and services available from any source including those available from Sling Media of Foster City Calif. and others.

System may also include any number of servers that are each capable of providing media content to media catcher or of at least directing media catcher to media content as appropriate. In various embodiments server is a conventional Internet server that interacts with a browser or viewer application executing on media catcher to provide images audio video and or other content as desired. In further embodiments server is a web server that includes links to other content servers available to the media catcher . In such embodiments a user may direct the media catcher to initially contact server and subsequently direct media catcher to follow hypertext markup language HTML or other links provided by server . Many different interface options are available across a wide array of equivalent implementations to allow media catcher to obtain media content from any number of servers .

In various embodiments media catcher may be able to additionally communicate with an external storage device such as any sort of disk drive flash memory drive and or the like. In such embodiments users may store media files on storage device for playback on display . Such files may include video files still imagery audio files and or any other type of media from any source. A user may keep a collection of home videos for example on a hard drive or other storage medium that can be connected to media catcher .

In operation then media catcher is able to obtain media content from one or more sources to process the received content for playback and to provide suitable output signals for presenting the media content on display . In one embodiment media catcher is able to receive encoded media streams from computer and may be additionally able to receive streaming and or file based content from placeshifting device server and or local storage . In this embodiment the content can be received in any of various formats and can be decoded for presentation on display . By designing media catcher to support multiple formats and multiple sources of media content the user is able to conveniently enjoy content from multiple sources on a common display . Note that media catcher may be any sort of media player device however so the integration features described above may not be present in all embodiments.

Media catcher device may be logically and physically implemented in any manner. shows various logical and functional features that may be present in an exemplary device each module shown in the figure may be implemented with any sort of hardware software firmware and or the like. Any of the various modules may be implemented with any sort of general or special purpose integrated circuitry for example such as any sort of microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processor programmed array and or the like. In various embodiments any number of the modules shown in may be implemented as part of a system on a chip SoC using any suitable processing circuitry under control of any appropriate control logic . In such embodiments control logic executes within an integrated SoC or other processor that also implements transport selector and display processor as well as any logic that controls network interface and or storage interface as appropriate. NXP Semiconductors of Eindhoven Netherlands for example produces several models of processors that are capable of supporting SoC implementations although products from any number of other suppliers could be equivalently used. In still other embodiments various distinct chips circuits or components may be inter connected with each other to implement the functions represented in .

Various embodiments of control logic can include any circuitry components hardware software and or firmware logic capable of controlling the components and processes operating within device . Although shows control logic as a discrete feature in practice control logic will typically interact with each of the other modules and components operating within media catcher to direct the operation thereof.

Media catcher includes an appropriate network interface that operates using any implementation of protocols or other features to support communication by device on network . In various embodiments network interface supports conventional LAN WAN or other protocols e.g. the TCP IP or UDP IP suite of protocols widely used on the Internet to allow device to communicate on network as desired. Network interface typically interfaces with network using any sort of LAN adapter hardware such as a conventional network interface card NIC or the like provided within device .

Storage interface is any physical logical and or other features that can be used to interface with an external storage medium such as a magnetic or optical disk drive a flash memory card and or any other sort of storage as appropriate. In various embodiments storage interface is a universal serial bus USB IEEE 1394 Firewire or other standard interface that allows users to store files at a conventional computer system e.g. computer in some embodiments for playback via media catcher . In such embodiments media catcher will typically include a physical interface that can receive the media as well as a logical interface that may be implemented within the SoC or other logical features of device to execute in response to control logic .

In many embodiments media catcher includes a wireless or other input interface that receives wireless infrared or other radio frequency RF instructions from remote control . Interface may additionally or alternately include any number of buttons sliders knobs or other physical input devices located on a housing of device . In operation user instructions provided by remote control and or any other input features are received at interface for subsequent processing by control logic . In various embodiments control logic takes appropriate actions based upon the particular inputs received examples of appropriate actions may include directing display processor to generate or modify the presented imagery directing a command packet to be sent to a remotely located content source and or any other actions.

Transport stream select module is any hardware and or software logic capable of selecting a desired media stream from the available sources. In the embodiment shown in transport select module is able to select video signals for presentation on one or more output interfaces . Stream select module therefore responds to viewer inputs e.g. via control logic to simply switch content received from a network source or from storage to one or more display processing modules .

Display processor module includes any appropriate hardware software and or other logic to create desired screen displays at interface as desired. In various embodiments display processor module is able to decode and or transcode the received media to a format that can be presented at display interface . The generated displays including received stored content and any other displays may then be presented to one or more output interfaces in any desired format. In various embodiments display processor produces an output signal encoded in any standard format e.g. ITU656 format for standard definition television signals or any format for high definition television signals that can be readily converted to standard and or high definition television signals at interface .

Display processing module is also able to produce on screen displays OSDs for electronic program guide setup and control input output facilitation user interface imagery and or other features that may vary from embodiment to embodiment. Such displays are not typically contained within the received or stored broadcast stream but are nevertheless useful to users in interacting with device or the like. In particular on screen displays can be used to generate user interface imagery that allows for convenient program selection control and the like as described more fully below.

In operation then the user selects desired media content from a network source e.g. placeshifting device computer and or server in and provides appropriate inputs via remote control or the like. The commands are received at input interface and provided to control logic as appropriate. Control logic is then able to contact the appropriate content source via network interface storage interface and or the like and to select the desired content using for example transport select module . The obtained content can then be processed by display processor and received at display interface in an appropriate format so that output signals can be compatible with the external display .

With reference now to an exemplary computer system that could be used to provide media projecting or other placeshifting functionality to any sort of media catcher suitably includes a placeshifting application that is able to work with a media player or other application to provide media content via network .

In various embodiments computer system includes conventional hardware features such as a processor memory input output features and the like. Processor may be any sort of general purpose microprocessor or controller for example or any sort of digital signal processor programmed logic and or the like. Memory may represent any sort of random access and or read only memory as well as any flash or other mass storage memory associated with system . Input output may include any conventional features including any sort of mass storage e.g. magnetic or optical storage flash memory storage and or the like input features e.g. keyboard mouse touchpad etc. output features e.g. video display audio output and or any sort of communications capabilities e.g. a network interface to network or the like . In various embodiments system is a conventional personal computer type workstation that stores programs and other instructions in disk flash or other mass storage. Such programs can be copied to memory as needed prior to execution by processor .

Operating system is any conventional operating system that allows various programs executing on system to access the various hardware features described above. Many examples of operating systems are well known including the various versions of the WINDOWS operating systems available from the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the UNIX LINUX operating systems available from a number of open source and proprietary sources and the MacOS operating system available from the Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif. Any number of alternate embodiments based upon other operating systems and computing platforms could be readily created.

In various embodiments operating system operates in conjunction with one or more services that provide helpful features to aid in execution of programs on computer system . Such services may include abstraction services such as the JAVA or ACTIVE X products available from Sun Microsystems and the Microsoft Corporation respectively. Other services may include graphics or other input output related features such as the DIRECTX DIRECT3D application programming interface available from the Microsoft Corporation the Open Graphics Library OpenGL product available from numerous sources the graphics device interface GDI product available as part of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the Intel Integrated Performance Primitives IPP library and or other services as appropriate. In various embodiments one or more services may be incorporated into operating system and or into specific drivers associated with hardware in any manner.

Placeshifting application is any application that processes user inputs and or media content in any manner to create the media stream that is provided to media catcher . In various embodiments placeshifting application is a conventional software application or applet that resides in memory and or mass storage on computer system and that provides some or all of the various features described herein. In some implementations at least a portion of application is initially executed at system startup and remains in system memory during operation of system to facilitate rapid access to media content . Other embodiments may execute as a plugin or other enhancement to a conventional web browser program or as any other sort of application applet object module and or the like.

The particular features implemented by application may vary from embodiment to embodiment. Typically application is able to capture at least a portion of the display typically associated with computer system to encode the captured portion of the display and to transmit the encoded media stream to a remotely located media catcher as described above. To accomplish these various tasks application suitably interoperates with other applications and features of system using operating system and or services . Data about media content may be obtained from a video memory or other the like using one or more services for example. This obtained imagery may be encoded transcoded and or otherwise processed as desired to create the media stream. The media stream is then transmitted over network using a network interface or other conventional feature as appropriate.

Placeshifting application may obtain content for media stream in any manner. In various embodiments placeshifting application communicates with a media player application that receives and renders audio visual and or other media content as desired. Media player may be any conventional media player application including the Windows Media Player program the iTunes program any sort of browser program any sort of plugin or other application associated with any sort of browser program and or the like. Such programs typically receive content from a local or remote source and render content for local display. Instead of simply rendering the content on a local display however the content may be readily placeshifted to media catcher for remote viewing over network . Moreover in various embodiments placeshifting application is able to communicate with one or more media players to adjust the contents of the media stream. Application may provide instructions to play pause fast forward rewind and or otherwise manipulate the rendering of content by media player for example. Such commands may be placed via any sort of inter process communications provided by operating system services and or other features as appropriate.

In an exemplary embodiment video information that would typically be displayed on a local display associated with system is stored in bitmap or similar format within video memory associated with hardware . By monitoring the information stored in the video memory associated with a window or other portion of the local display that is of interest the information that would typically be displayed locally can be processed and transmitted over network for remote viewing. This information may be accessed for example using conventional DirectX IPP DGI OpenGL and or other services or in any other manner. In various embodiments the particular services and or other resources used to access the video map information may vary from time to time depending upon available hardware system load network conditions characteristics of the content itself and or other factors as appropriate. Obtained information may be filtered encrypted formatted and or otherwise processed as desired to create the media stream transmitted over network no.

Various other features may be provided in any number of alternate embodiments. Some implementations may include a privacy mode or other feature that allows a user of computer system to prevent streaming of some or all of the display at certain times. This feature may be activated by activating a button e.g. an actual button on a keyboard or other device a soft button that is accessible via a graphical user interface on a display associated with computer system or the like or other control. In the privacy mode a pre determined screen e.g. a graphical image blank screen or the like may be provided in place of a full motion stream that may be otherwise provided.

Some embodiments may be operable to encode the video stream provided to the media catcher in any number of different modes. A normal mode for example may be designated for conventional video processing with frame rate bit rate resolution and or any other parameters set to encode video signals. Any number of other modes could be designated for other purposes such as presentations photo presentation audio only streaming and or the like. A presentation mode for example may have a higher resolution than a typical video streaming mode to accommodate additional picture detail and or the like but might also have a significantly lower frame rate that would typically be undesirable for video viewing. That is due to the relatively infrequent changes of presentation slides or still images in comparison to motion video the image resolution may be increased at the expense of motion frame rate. Any number of other modes could be formulated in a wide array of alternate embodiments. Such modes may be selected from remote control from software executing within system and or from any other source. In still other embodiments the particular mode may be determined automatically from the content being streamed to media catcher .

Further embodiments may establish encoding and or other parameters in response to the capabilities of computer system . That is the available RAM processor speed video processing capabilities network processing and transmission capabilities and or other resources available to system could be used to determine the particular parameters of the encoded media stream. A system with a large amount of available RAM and a fast video processing card for example may be able to encode a higher quality video stream than a system with lesser capabilities. Conversely a computer system with comparatively limited capabilities can be assisted by reducing the resolution bit rate frame rate and or other encoding parameters of the media stream to reduce computational and other demands placed upon the system. Capabilities may be assessed in any manner e.g. from a system registry database and or the like and at any time e.g. at software install and or startup of application . Such default settings may be manually or automatically adjusted in any manner.

Still other embodiments may provide any sort of piracy protection digital rights management intellectual property control and or the like. The well known MACROVISION protection systems for example are commonly used to prevent copying of content stored on DVDs and other media. In various embodiments placeshifting application media player and or any other process on system is able to identify protected content and to prevent streaming of such content across network . This may be accomplished in various embodiments by communicating with device drivers e.g. drivers of a CD or DVD drive to ascertain whether content is protected and if so to prevent subsequent streaming.

In various embodiments media catcher is able to transmit control information to a remotely located media source via network to allow the viewer to adjust or otherwise control the place shifted media stream. As user instructions are received from remote control for example control logic or another feature within media catcher may formulate a command request message that is transmitted over network for executing at the remote media source to change the media stream provided for viewing on display .

With primary reference to when a user requests viewing of a video stream from a remote placeshifter media catcher initially requests the content from the placeshifter which in turn requests the content from the appropriate media source . While placeshifting device may provide request using for example an IR Blaster or other interface as appropriate see signal in software implementations of a placeshifting application may provide procedure calls or other messages to the media player application via operating system and or services . The media source suitably responds by providing the desired content to the placeshifter which in turn formats the content into a packet stream that can be routed on network to media catcher .

If a viewer is watching a program on display that is originating at media source for example and the viewer wishes to pause rewind choose a different program and or otherwise change the programming stream the viewer simply depresses the appropriate button s on remote to send a wireless message to media catcher .

Media catcher receives and processes the command as described above e.g. using control logic or the like and then transmits a command message to placeshifter via network . This command message may be formatted for example in TCP IP or UDP IP format and may have sufficient information contained within the message to direct the remote placeshifter to generate the desired command to media source .

Command message is received at placeshifting device and then processed to direct the media source as appropriate. In various embodiments a placeshifting device may provide a command via an infrared radio frequency or other interface although equivalent embodiments could transfer command over any sort of wired interface as well. Software implementations may similarly provide command and or response in any appropriate manner within operating system services and or other features within computer system . In either case command generates the desired response from media source which can then be relayed as a modified media stream command message and or other suitable response to media catcher .

Content may be rendered or otherwise processed in any manner for presentation on display function . In various embodiments such processing may involve converting from a streaming or other network type format e.g. Windows Media format or the like to a displayable format e.g. ITU656 or the like that can be provided for presentation on display . This conversion may be provided by processor for example by a separate decoder transcoder chip and or by any other logic or combinations of logic in any number of alternate embodiments.

Other embodiments may operate in any other manner or may eliminate such remote control functionality entirely. In embodiments that do provide the ability to transfer wireless remote instructions to a remote device over network however significant improvements to the user experience can be provided. That is by allowing the user to transmit commands from a remote control and receive results from a remotely located media source significant flexibility and convenience can be obtained.

Process as shown in suitably includes the broad steps of identifying the content for the media stream step capturing the content step converting the captured content to create the media stream step and transmitting the stream to media catcher step . Various further embodiments may also allow for establishing a connection with the media catcher step to pre establish one or more parameters and or adjusting parameters step as conditions change step during the media streaming process. Many practical embodiments may modify and or supplement the exemplary process shown in in any manner. The various processing steps shown in may be combined in to common software or firmware modules for example and or the particular logic shown in may be logically temporally and or spatially re arranged or supplemented in any manner.

As shown in process suitably begins with any sort of identification of the media content to be place shifted step . In various embodiments a user identifies the content using conventional user interface features e.g. mouse keyboard touchpad commonly associated with computer system . A user may indicate that the content displayed in a particular window is to be place shifted for example. In other embodiments a portion of a window e.g. a media screen contained within a web browser may be manually or automatically identified for placeshifting. If a user is viewing a well known webpage for example a portion of that page that is known to be associated with media imagery can be placeshifted without placeshifting the remainder of the window or the display. The relevant portion may be associated with a media viewer plugin for example or may simply be identified from the uniform resource locator URL of a webpage or other browser feature. In still other embodiments a user is able to manually draw a rectangular or other window on the user interface displayed on system to allow the contents of that window to be placeshifted. Drawing the window or otherwise delineating a portion of the display allows the corresponding portion of video memory to be readily identified so that bitmap or other information about the contents of the window can be obtained. Other embodiments may identify the placeshifted content in any other manner including identification based upon inputs received from the remote media catcher as appropriate. Identifying a portion of the displayed screen can have certain advantages in many embodiments since restricting the size of the encoded imagery can dramatically reduce the amount of processing resources used to encode the images thereby improving the user experience.

In various embodiments a connection is initially established from the media projecting system to the media catcher prior to transmittal of the media stream. This allows for querying of the capabilities and or capacity of the media player which in turn can be used to ascertain an appropriate frame rate for encoding the media stream. In various embodiments application identifies media catcher through an intermediating network host or the like and obtains information from the media catcher regarding an encoding frame rate and or other parameters. In many embodiments the initially received frame rate will remain relatively constant throughout the duration of the media stream even though encoding bit rate and or other parameters may vary as described more fully below. The connection established between computer system and media catcher may be established in any manner an in accordance with any format. Conventional TCP IP or UDP IP constructs may be used for example to establish a stream according to any standard or non standard format such as Windows Media Quicktime MPEG and or the like.

Content may be captured in any manner step . In various embodiments the identified content or the entire monitor display may be captured from video memory e.g. VRAM or the like. Such information may be obtained at any frequency to establish a desired frame rate e.g. 30 frames second or so in one embodiment although other embodiments may use any other sampling rate and frame data that is obtained may be filtered compressed encrypted and or otherwise processed in any manner. In various embodiments the frequency at which data is obtained is determined based upon the capacity or capabilities of the remote player based upon information received in step .

As noted above the size and location of the captured region of the video display may be manually or automatically configured in any manner. Moreover the size or location of the captured region may change during the streaming session in response to changes in the content changes in the display changes in the network and or changes in the media catcher as appropriate. Black or other padding data may be provided if needed to fill in the imagery transmitted and displayed.

The media stream is encoded in any manner step . In various embodiments the raw video frames captured from video memory may be converted from a conventional bitmap or similar format to a compressed streaming video format suitable for transmission and or routing on network . Examples of such formats could include without limitation Windows Media format Quicktime format MPEG format and or the like. A media encoder module associated with program therefore performs encoding transcoding on the captured frames as appropriate to create the media stream in the desired format. Compression encryption and or other processing may be applied as well.

Audio data may be captured in addition to video data in various embodiments. Audio data may be obtained by creating an audio device driver as part of application or the like. The device driver may be automatically activated when streaming is active so that system sounds are encoded into the media stream transmitted to the remote player .

Video audio and or any other streams e.g. control streams may be combined in any manner and transmitted on network as desired step . In various embodiments the media stream is packetized into a suitable format and transmitted to media catcher over network in conventional TCP IP and or UDP IP packets although other embodiments may use any other networking schemes and structures.

The media stream may be adjusted as needed steps . Changes in conditions of network media catcher and or computer system for example could result in adjustments to one or more parameters used to encode the media stream to reflect increases or decreases in capacity. The bit rate bit resolution size of the captured window and or any other parameter could be adjusted to accommodate the changing conditions. If network should become congested during media streaming for example the bit rate of the encoded stream could be reduced to reduce traffic on the network and to provide more information in limited available bandwidth. Similarly if the network should become less heavily utilized during the streaming session perhaps the bit rate could be increased to take advantage of the newly available bandwidth and to provide an improved user experience. Bit rate or other parameters may be similarly adjusted in response to processor demands on system or other factors as appropriate. If processor or a separate video processor or any other resource associated with system should become more heavily utilized for example the bit rate or another parameter could be reduced to reduce the processing demands created by encoding the higher bit rate. Similarly the bit rate may be increased during periods of time when the processor or other resource is under utilized to take advantage of the available resources and thereby improve the user experience. By adjusting bit rate independently from frame rate the user experience can be maintained at an acceptable level despite challenges presented by fluctuating bandwidth and or changes in processing resources.

System resources may be monitored in any manner to determine when parameter modification should take place step . In various embodiments a transmit buffer that stores data packets prior to transmission on network can be monitored to determine whether adjustments to one or more encoding parameters are appropriate. If the buffer is observed to be filling faster than it is emptying for example then it can be readily assumed that the bit rate could be reduced to prevent overflowing of the buffer. Conversely if the buffer is underutilized e.g. the buffer empties at a faster rate than it is filled then bit rate may be increased if processing resources are available for the increased bit rate. The particular techniques used to assess whether the buffer is over or under utilized may vary from embodiment to embodiment. One or more virtual watermarks for example could be assigned to the buffer with changes in bit rate or other parameters taking place whenever a watermark is breached. Watermarks could be arbitrarily assigned to 25 50 and 75 utilization for example with encoding parameters adjusted whenever the buffer utilization increases or decreases past any of these values. The particular watermarks used as well as the number of watermarks may vary widely from embodiment to embodiment. Moreover processor utilization may alternately or additionally be observed independently of network utilization to further determine the appropriate parameter value based upon current conditions.

In still further embodiments the techniques used to capture and or encode images may change based upon observed conditions. Video capture may take place using any of several techniques e.g. using Direct3d constructs IIP hardware features and or GDI interface features based upon the availability of such features and the relative system load demanded by each one. In some applications for example the user may request an image from a video game or the like that requires the use of DirectX constructs for proper video capture. Other implementations however may be more efficiently processed using IIP hardware features even though higher level DirectX features are also available. By observing processor utilization and or buffer fill rates using each of the available services the most efficient service may be used based upon then current conditions. Hence by incorporating the flexibility of modifying one or more encoding parameters in response to observed performance the user experience may be managed to ensure an adequate experience without over consumption of system resources.

Various systems devices and techniques are therefore described that allow for placeshifting of media content from a display associated with a computer system to a remote player or other type of media catcher as appropriate. As used herein the word exemplary means serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.

While the foregoing detailed description will provide those skilled in the art with a convenient road map for implementing various embodiments of the invention it should be appreciated that the particular embodiments described above are only examples and are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. To the contrary various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements described without departing from the scope of the invention.

